12 CEOs review transforming our business Most of last year was focused on integration.
2013 will be about completing this effort and transforming our business through innovation as we revitalise our offer with a string of product updates and extend our reach through mobile and social media channels.
With most of our single technology platform in place, we are now optimising the shape and size of our business in order to maximise our operational and financial performance.
Norbert Teufelberger CEO Our strategy is unchanged, but we are not relying on innovation alone to return our business to growth.
We are accelerating the pace of change by shifting our revenue mix towards nationally regulated and to-be-regulated markets.
This includes gearing up for a launch in the US, which now seems to be a more likely prospect within the next twelve months following recent events at state level.
With most of our single At the same time we are changing our technology platform in place, approach to dotcom markets with we are now optimising the increased focus on fewer but more shape and size of our business valuable customers.
We are simplifying our business, moving from volume to value, in order to maximise our which we believe will allow us to further operational and financial increase our operational ef ciency.
Weexpect this approach to generate signi cant additional cash ow to offset increased investment and taxes as additional markets regulate and also tofund growth in new business areas suchaspayments and social gaming.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 13 2012 Key developments We delivered 46.5m of merger synergies extending our multi-territory video in2012, better than our original target of streaming rights for the main football During the past year there were several 40.0m.
Of the 46.5m total synergies leagues in Germany and Spain: important strategic, operational and delivered 2011: 23.3m, 36.9m related regulatory developments that affected partnering with Groupe Partouche toContinuing operations 2011: 18.3m theGroups performance and which also inBelgium to secure access to the and 9.6m 2011: 5.0m related to underpin our long-term prospects.
regulated online gaming market Discontinued operations.
inBelgium: Merger integration concluding our agreement with Zynga Strategic developments Having completed the initial organisational tobe their chosen supplier of real money We continued to execute our stated blueprint in 2011, 2012 was focused on poker and casino games in the UK: and business strategy and achieved continuing our journey to create a single becoming the digital online betting and severalstrategic milestones during 2012. technology platform, one capable of gaming partner for Manchester United.
These included: supporting all of our current and future revenue streams across multiple labels, Operational developments securing a partnership agreement with products and jurisdictions.
The migration the United Auburn Indian Community, While the performance of each of our of over 13 million bwin.
com customer one of Californias leading casino business verticals is covered within the accounts in December 2012 represented a operators so that we are well-positioned Review of 2012 on pages 34 to 43, a few of major milestone in this effort and means to take advantage of regulated online the key operational highlights during the that we are well on our way to completing gaming in the state of California, should year, in addition to the integration progress this complex, but important task.
Our requisite laws allow: outlined above, included our launch of all technology will underwrite our long-term products into Denmark as well as poker acquiring a dedicated development success by providing a solid foundation and casino products for our local partner, team based in Eastern Europe and upon which we can secure and build Danske Licens Spil on 1 January 2012: we launching our own social gaming leading positions in all nationally regulated also launched all products into Spain at strategy, spearheaded by a new and to-be-regulated markets.
Following the businessunit called Win: single, scaleable platform is not just about introduction of a 5% turnover tax on sports concluding a joint venture partnership supporting our real money gaming betting in Germany on 1 July 2012, along with Nordeus, one of the worlds leading franchise of today, it is already opening with the rest of the industry, we began developers of social sports applications: upnew revenue opportunities for us, topass on the majority of the tax to completing the sale of Ongame to opportunities that will see us extend customers by requiring that winning Amaya for 15m with up to 10m ourreach into new areas of digital customers pay a 5% withholding on additional consideration should online entertainment including social gaming, theirpay-out.
gaming become regulated in the US: payments and sports content.
Whilst many of our planned product developments were delayed pending the completion of the dotcom migration that took place in December 2012, we added anumber of features to our core gaming Financial synergies progress report products.
We signi cantly increased our live betting offer that saw us increase the Original tar rget get Rev Revise ised t d targ arget et number of live events offered per year by Total act ctual ual Con Con ontin tin tinuin uin u uing o g o g oper per perati ati ations ons ons 60% to 65,000: we launched the download 70m version of the PartyCasino product 65 65 underthe bwin label and also launched 60 60m 0m 0m 0 FastForward Poker that has proven a 55 popular addition to our core poker product.
50m 47 Despite having to defer the optimisation 40 40 40m ofour mobile offer until the migration to a 37 single technology platform was complete, 30m we still managed to increase our mobile 23 gross gaming revenue by 78%, reaching 20m 18 42.6m in 2012 2011: 24.0m.
Complete our technology integration By changing the way we execute...
The regulatory landscape has continued Unlike most of our competitors, we have... we believe we can signi cantly toevolve and we have obtained licences chosen to build and control all elements improve our financial and and launched in Denmark, Spain and ofthe value chain: front-end services, operating performance.
While Schleswig-Holstein Germany during 2012. gaming software and content, payments, The transition to nationally regulated data warehouse, business intelligence, revenue for 2013 is now expected markets, especially in Europe, continues to regulatory compliance as well as premium to be slightly lower than current be a major factor in uencing our revenue B2B services, where we offer a turnkey market estimates, the impact on and Clean EBITDA performance.
solution to strategic customers such as Clean EBITDA is to be off-set by InDecember 2012 approximately 35% of Zynga, PMU and Danske Licens Spil.
Our our gaming revenues came from nationally approach gives us both the exibility cost savings and other initiatives.
regulated markets and 38% of our gaming andcontrol to be able to enter multiple revenues were subject to gaming taxes.
markets with multiple labels and products, This compares with the gures in without incurring signi cant third-party December 2011 that were 26% and 26% costs.
Taxation and regulatory compliance respectively.
A summary of key regulatory in newly regulated markets naturally put developments is set out on pages 18 and19.
Having to also incur additional and signi cant Plans for 2013 third-party costs can make market entry Since completing the Merger in March uneconomic.
Our approach means that we 2011, we have executed our stated strategy have a competitive advantage with which and integration programme as planned.
to enter new markets and secure a strong However, the complexity of the merger market position we have already secured integration and external factors such as a top three position in all nationally regulation and associated taxation, as well regulated products in Italy, France, as signi cant macroeconomic pressures Denmark and Spain.
The alternative is to inEurope, have hampered our financial remain focused on just one, or a limited performance revenue has been at and number of regulated markets an Clean EBITDA has declined.
approach that we believe fails to capitalise In order to return the business to on the inherent operational leverage of the growthwe are changing our approach in online gaming model and places too great anumberof key operational areas which a reliance on a limited number of territories.
Innovate our core gaming products ourfuture performance.
The creation of a single technology This does not mean a change in our platform required that we delay a number strategy, the five pillars of which remain of product improvements and this has in place: certainly been a factor in holding back our performance over the past 18 months.
Focus on regulated and to-be-regulated Thiswill start to change in 2013.
As already markets: announced, we will be launching a new Invest in our core assets: people, version of PartyPoker during the first half brands and technology: For further details on our strategy of 2013 with further enhancements read more on pages 20 to 33 Secure strategic partnerships: scheduled for later in the year.
We are also Extend into new areas of digital developing an all new casino product, entertainment: and targeting more casual players who are Act responsibly looking for fun games to play that are However, by changing the way we execute available through all channels and certain elements of the strategy we believe optimised for mobile and touch devices.
we can signi cantly improve our financial Our proprietary bingo product is currently and operating performance.
Before coming being developed for launch later this year on to the new initiatives, we still have five and our sports offer will bene t from a core projects to complete, each of which series of product enhancements that will will underpin our future plans.
They are: deliver new features that we believe will once again put the bwin brand at the vanguard of the industry.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 15 Raising our game 3.
Leverage our assets through While these initiatives will make important We are refreshing and repositioning  contributions to our revenue and Clean P Pa ar rty ty yP Pok oker er a as s t th he e p po pok ker er b bran rand d o of f t th he e f fu utu ture re.. EBITDA, we need to go further to transform In addition to our existing partnerships Read more on pages 32 and 33 the trajectory of our business.
Therefore, with Danske Licens Spil in Denmark and inaddition to the initiatives above, we PMU in France, we will launch a real money areimplementing a series of changes online poker and casino service in the UK tosimplify our business and release for Zynga in the next few weeks and are signi cant resources, some of which will be now working with them towards being reinvested to deliver meaningful growth in able to offer their service through all our core markets, as well as extend our otherchannels.
reach into new growth areas.
Prepare for US entry which fall under three main headings, are Recent developments in New Jersey and described in more detail as follows: other states would appear to indicate that I.
Greater focus on regulated and to-beregulated real money internet gaming regulated markets inthe US will soon become a reality.
The transition to nationally regulated Together with our existing partners, MGM, markets is inevitable with consequential Boyd Gaming and United Auburn Indian increased costs and taxes.
However, the Community, we are well placed to long-term prize remains: online gaming is capitalise on any opening of this exciting destined to become a greater proportion new market.
In addition to ensuring we of total gaming driven by increasing complete the requisite licensing and broadband speeds and availability, greater suitability processes, we are now ringuse of smartphone and tablet technology, fencing the infrastructure and resources an increasing propensity to use the needed to launch in the US market thereby internet as the primary channel for ensuring that this opportunity is not consumer entertainment and regulation compromised by other business demands.
itself see a summary of our investment 5.
Go mobile case on pages 6 to 9.
While bwin was one of the first sports But as a number of markets have matured, betting brands to go live with a mobile the marginal returns from new customer product back in 2001 and despite being acquisition in a number of those markets able to increase our mobile gross gaming have declined whilst the costs required to revenues by 78% in 2012 to 42.6m 2011: support them in terms of marketing, risk 24.0m, the technology integration has management, IT operations, customer meant that our current offering is not yet service, af liate management and legal optimised.
Regulatory as well as technical and regulatory services, have not.
hurdles meant that in 2012 less than half of our business footprint was available Whilst geographic diversity can be an through mobile extensions.
However, advantage, being spread too thin across having migrated our dotcom customers too many jurisdictions can also prevent onto a single technology platform, we are theallocation of marketing spend from now in a position to launch mobile being optimised and lead to operational extensions for each of our core products inef ciency.
Outside of our core regulated and will also supply mobile extensions for and to-be-regulated markets, we are several of our B2B partners.
A completely therefore reducing the number of new touch-optimised interface for our jurisdictions where we provide a full suite sports product, together with new of services.
The net result of this shift will features, is expected to be launched later likely reduce dotcom revenues but should this year.
We are moving towards a position also deliver a signi cant reduction in where we will be channel agnostic and associated costs, increasing net cash ow.
aim to optimise the customer experience, On the back of the planned product irrespective of which channel is being used improvements outlined above and with by the customer web, mobile, tablet or the savings generated from an increased social media.
We are embracing this change focus on nationally regulated and to-beby leveraging our in-house expertise within regulated markets, we intend to push our Mobile, Touch, Video unit and using our in-house mobile platform.
16 CEOs review aggressively in growing revenue in our core III.
Invest in new revenue streams markets.
This will be led by improved The Merger yielded a number of distinct product positioning as well as through a revenue opportunities outside of our core shift in our marketing approach to employ real money gaming business that with new marketing models recognising that modest investment have the potential to many of todays consumers are less deliver substantial value.
By releasing value interested in being told what products and through a greater focus on regulated services to choose and are much more markets and on our core customer base, focused on what their friends, family and we intend to invest some of these work colleagues recommend.
By shifting resources in three emerging businesses.
our marketing mix to one that is less Payments gateway Kalixa Group Kalixa, our in-house payments focused on conventional marketing business, processed 2.6bn of Our in-house payments business, formerly channels, that employs recommendation transactions in 2012. known as CQR, has evolved over the past as well as promotion tools, underwritten 18 months to become a fullyedged by engaging and state-of-the-art products financial services operation.
Unlike many that are available through all channels, is of its competitors, Kalixa owns and how we will succeed.
controls three parts of the payments value II.
Improved service for core customers chain: issuing, acquiring and acceptance.
At the same time, outside our core This means it can act as a gateway to over regulated and to-be-regulated markets, we 90 payment methods and can process are shifting our approach by focusing more payments on their behalf: it can issue effort on retaining our premium customers pre-paid cards linked to an associated than on acquiring new ones.
Recognising online wallet: and it can enable SMEs to the importance of these customers, we accept card, e-wallet and alternative aregoing to provide them with a more payments.
Having processed 40 million tailored service and associated support.
internet transactions with a value of 2.6bn These customers tend to not only be higher in 2012 approximately 85% of which is in value but they also have the lowest rates house, with modest investment and a ofchurn.
As a result, reduced dotcom clear strategy, over the next few years we marketing is unlikely to impact their intend to grow processing volumes playing activity and will increase our substantially, increase the number of overall returns.
However, we also believe Kalixa account holders as well as the there is scope to reduce that churn further, number of merchants accepting Kalixa by enhancing the service they receive payments.
This is an ambitious target but currently through more proactive one that we believe is credible given the engagement and reward.
growth expected in online payments and the quality of the Kalixa technology and The net result of these actions should be to management team.
release signi cant savings and generate positive cash ow, some of which we will invest in securing revenue growth in nationally regulated and to-be-regulated markets, including the US that will require its own dedicated resources.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 17 Social gaming Employees Since announcing our market entry Our employees have continued to perform strategy in May 2012 with the formation of to a high standard, despite the workload Win, and completing the acquisition of a ofintegrating our technology platform dedicated technology resource, we have combined with the testing circumstances made signi cant progress in social in which we have had to operate over the gaming.
Our first in-house developed slots past two years.
At the time of the Merger game, Slots Craze, went live on Facebook at we identi ed a number of core values that the end of February 2013 and is performing underpinned our culture and collective in line with our expectations.
Built around three key themes we will also launch more slots, a bingo ofinsight, passion and creativity, they product for social platforms, a social differentiate us from many of our casinoproduct and a pioneering approach competitors and continue to support to social sports betting that we are ourvision and determination to succeed.
developing with our partner, Nordeus.
The Current trading and outlook social gaming market is already generating Our current trading in January and an estimated $1.7bn of gross gaming February 2013 was impacted by some user revenue annually and this is expected experience issues following the dotcom 14 toincrease to $2.5bn by 2015.
We are migration in December 2012, the impact determined to capture a meaningful ofwhich was slightly higher thanexpected.
shareof this market and believe that by It was also impacted by decisions taken producing the very best game content, inJanuary 2013 to increase our focus on supported by creative marketing and our nationally regulated markets and on high own real-time analytics platform, we have value customers.
The result was that in the the tools necessary to succeed.
period to 11 March 2013 average gross daily Sports content revenue was down 7% versus the fourth As well as securing international media quarter of 2012 to 2.4m Q4 12: 2.6m.
rights for a variety of sports content that However, Clean EBITDA margins for the we can use to both enhance the experience same period are running higher than of our sports betting customers and sell-on expected which has mitigated the revenue to third parties, we have also developed a shortfall.
The migration issues have now process to capture and sell-on a variety of stabilised and with the launch of a series of sports data and related content.
Whilst still new products and services later this year in its infancy, such a revenue model is we remain con dent about the outlook for already proving pro table and we are now the full year.
looking to expand it signi cantly in 2013.
Social gaming play Our aim is to create the highest quality social games such as our new Juicy Monsters game see pages 30 and 31.
ThinkEquity 18 CEOs review Key regulatory Europe been brought before the Court of Justice of developments the European Union CJEU.
In a decision Having outlined his action plan in a on 24 January 2013, Germanys Federal communication on online gambling in Court of Justice referred questions to the 2012, Michel Barnier, the Commissioner CJEU which, amongst others, seek guidance forInternal Market and Services con rmed as to whether the licenses granted in that the European Commission EC Schleswig-Holstein render the restrictions wasfocused on five areas regarding of the other German Lnder inconsistent onlinegaming: and therefore unenforceable.
Consumer protection focus on minors In the meantime, bwin.
party has applied and vulnerable groups : for a licence under the new regime and is Prevention of fraud and money working with the authorities to deliver laundering: along-term solution that works for Integrity of sport: allstakeholders.
Enhanced administrative cooperation and ef cient enforcement: and United Kingdom 10% of net revenue in 2012 Compliance of national regulatory frameworks with EU law.
Having noti ed proposed amendments to the Gambling Act 2005 to the European Having written to several Member States Commission, the proposals received a for an update on the current status of a detailed opinion from Malta that may number of outstanding complaints and prompt further changes and or delay their infringement proceedings, Michel Barnier introduction in 2013.
Associated changes is now expected to either close the tothe basis of taxation are however not outstanding complaints and proceedings expected to become effective before or initiate new infringement cases against December 2014.
While the applicable rate those states whose gambling regulations of taxation for offshore operators offering are considered to be in violation of EU services to customers located in the UK law.
Based on the recent rhetoric from has yet to be con rmed, the current rate of theEC, there would appear to be a greater tax for onshore operators is 15% of gross enthusiasm to enforce the European gaming revenue.
Treatythan has been the case previously.
Whether that will turn into action or not Italy has yet to be seen.
9% of net revenue in 2012 Having introduced online casino in July Germany 2011 and online slots to the regulated 23% of net revenue in 2012 framework in December 2012, the Italian Despite having received concerns in the regulator published statistics showing that form of a detailed opinion from both the EC in terms of gross gaming revenue, the and Malta as well as detailed comments overall online gaming market in Italy grew from the United Kingdom, Schleswigby 5% in 2012 to 735m.
While revenue Holstein, Germanys most northern Land, from casino and cash game poker grew chose to reverse its gaming law that strongly in the year, revenue from poker licensed all gaming products online, in tournaments, sports betting and bingo all favour of the more restrictive State declined by 38%, 22% and 20% respectively.
Gambling Treaty that licenses sports betting only and under very restrictive conditions.
The concerns raised both by the EC as well as the German Monopoly Commission that the new treaty may not be compliant with EU law have recently bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 19 France Belgium In New Jersey, having issued a conditional 6% of net revenue in 2012 2% of net revenue in 2012 veto to a law legalising online gaming, There have not yet been any changes to the Having seen the Belgian authorities Governor Christie signed the amended bill regime despite continued criticism that the enforce their laws against several into law on 26 February 2013 and it is now regulatory and scal framework is not operators by way of ISP blocking, expected that online poker and casino commercially viable.
party announced an agreement with games will be introduced under the new licensed operators has continued to fall Belcasinos, owned by Groupe Partouche law towards the end of 2013.
The midwith a further three operators withdrawing toaccess the market as only land-based points of independent estimates of the size from the market in mid-December licensed operators are allowed to offer of the online gaming market in New Jersey 2012.
There were 22 operators at the end of services in Belgium.
All products are range from $230m to over $1bn.
December 2012 sharing 33 licences: 16 for allowed and gross gaming revenues are In California, Senator Rod Wright poker, 9 for sports betting and 8 for horse taxed at 11%.
reintroduced his online poker bill, SB51, on race betting.
Despite having failed Denmark 1% of net revenue in 2012 previously to develop a consensus of Greece 4% of net revenue in 2012 support for this initiative, momentum Having opened at the beginning of January appears to be building for online poker Despite having received a detailed opinion 2012 the Danish market is lead by Danske generated by the most powerful tribes as from the EC back in 2011, in December 2012 Licens Spil, our local partner.
According evidenced by the appearance of further the government sent letters to several to gures from the regulator there were draft bills with their support.
It is estimated offshore online operators threatening to 38operators using 54 licences and the that the size of the intra-state online poker enforce its gaming law aggressively.
While totalsize of the online gaming market was market in California could be as large as a number of operators pulled out of the equal to approximately 273m of gross $1bn of gross gaming revenue.
market, there followed a highly critical gaming revenue.
ruling from the Court of Justice of the Illinois is another state that is actively Elsewhere, there are moves to introduce European Union on OPAPs monopoly in considering intra-state online gaming legislation for online gaming in Hungary, Greece.
In light of the still pending legislation and a revised proposal is Netherlands, Portugal and Sweden, to privatisation of the Greek governments expected to be introduced shortly.
The details of such stake in OPAP, the regulatory uncertainty is proposals and whether such legislation Whether the momentum at a state level likely to continue for the time being.
may become law remain unclear.
might prompt the federal government to take any action has yet to be seen.
In the Spain United States 4% of net revenue in 2012 absence of such a move it seems likely that Having introduced its new online gaming a patchwork quilt of differing regulations In the absence of any federal poker legislation at the beginning of June 2012, and taxes will become the reality in the legislation being passed, individual states the Spanish authorities are now US.
Through our existing agreements with are now seizing the initiative following considering expanding the regime to also MGM, Boyd and the United Auburn Indian con rmation from the Department of include online slots although it is expected Community, we believe the Group is well Justice in December 2011 that intra-state that there will be pressure from the placed to take advantage of any market online gaming is not in breach of federal land-based industry to resist this opening in the US.
Nevada and Delaware were the first change.
According to data from the states to pass laws and are now putting in Spanish regulator, in the period from June place the requisite regulatory framework to November 2012 Spanish players before starting to allow online wagering in wagered 2.4bn on online gambling state.
While Delaware is offering speci c equivalent to 500-600 per player.
permissions to its lottery company, Nevada is a market that can be accessed by land-based operators with overseas suppliers being permitted other than those that continued to operate post-UIGEA.
