Chief Executives review The 2011 12 year was about managing After several difficult years, the rest of our governments and managed services the continuing and accelerating migration Caribbean region performed in line with the to enterprises.
of our business model from voice to data and outlook we set out at the start of the year.
Our investment in new data services will, establishing strong foundations for the future Trading conditions remained difficult, but the however, be subject to the same demanding success of that model whilst maintaining business now has a solid platform on which return on capital tests as all of our capital good performance during that transition.
We believe that return on Our Monaco & Islands business was also on invested capital ROIC is one of the most Performance target, delivering good underlying results important metrics to help manage our Despite being faced with some challenging despite some currency headwinds and business, and for this reason we will be markets, and operating in a sector which has a loss in Anis, our edgling African setting progressive internal targets and shown little or no growth for the past two enterprise business.
reporting on it to shareholders each year.
to three years, our business increased both revenue and EBITDA.
In Panama we maintained mobile market We will also look to develop geographically, share despite exceptional levels of with particular focus on the pan-American Mobile data was the fastest growing segment competition.
Mobile revenue increased by region.
Our approach in the past year has of our services.
Mobile data revenue rose 3%, but our margins were affected by intense reected this expanding into The Bahamas, 82% across the Group, and now accounts price competition following the introduction and selling our minority investments in for 21% of mobile service revenues.
The largest Vanuatu and Fi.
Across the Group two of our businesses impact on performance was in our enterprise exceeded their targets Macau, The business which had a slower year.
Next year Bahamas, two businesses met their targets In 2012 13 we expect to see a further Caribbean, Monaco & Islands and one Five year vision acceleration in data services, which nished below Panama.
Overall, it was Looking forward, we are putting in place the will balance the continuing decline in a resilient performance.
foundations for the evolution of our business voice services.
The main focus of Macau recorded its ninth straight year of We are focused on improving our ROIC, our investment is in data services, on both record profits, on the strength of our market currently 17%, as we continue to increase our mobile and xed networks.
leading position and continuing rapid growth penetration of smartphones and the take up in the local economy.
As a full service operator we have the of mobile data services.
We will also look to significant competitive advantage of being step up the pace of reshaping the Group, and The Bahamas, which we acquired at the able to deliver services to customers on will consider acquisitions and disposals if, and beginning of the year, was another solid any device, in any location.
We can provide when, suitable opportunities arise at the performer.
We made good strides in consumers with bundles of telecoms services right values.
restructuring and improving the business.
mobile, xed, broadband and pay TV which It has made a stronger than expected early meet growing demand for internet-based contribution to our performance, and we services, social telecoms services to expect further progress in the current year.
Clear strategic approach Our strategy is focused on delivering world class service to our customers, competing in our markets and generating increasing financial returns.
For more information see page 8 6 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011 12 Introduction Mobile data was the fastest growing segment ofour services.
Mobile data revenue rose 82%across the Group, and now accounts for21% of mobile service revenues.
Tony Rice Chief Executive We are looking for progress in our most difficult Caribbean market, Jamaica.
In May 2012, we were very pleased to see new telecoms legislation, which should improve the regulation of the industry and our ability to compete.
We have the opportunity to ght on a level playing eld and regain mobile market share for the first time in over a decade.
Elsewhere in the Caribbean we will continue to focus on improving our cost base and building on the successful restructuring we have done in The Bahamas.
The Panama market will remain competitive, particularly in mobile, but we will work hard to maintain our market leading position.
Our Macau business will have to adapt to the introduction of xed line competition, but we expect continued growth there while our Monaco & Islands business should also continue its steady progress.
With a clear strategy and strong foundations in place, I feel confident that we are well placed to make progress over the foreseeable future, as always with the caveat that economic conditions around the world do not deteriorate further.
Tony Rice Corporate social responsibility Our businesses operate responsibly and make an active and positive contribution to the communities in which we are present.
For more information see page 18 Cable & Wireless Communications 7
