Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Chairman & CEO Statement Sir Bill Gammell and Simon Thomson Atlantic Margin Morocco We operate two exploration permits in frontier A year of acreage offshore Morocco the primary exploration plays are the turbidite fan systems of Lower Cretaceous age in the Foum Draa permits and the Middle and Lower Jurassic shelf edge significant progress carbonates in the Juby Maritime permits.
Multiple leads and prospects have been identified During 2012 Cairn delivered on its main strategic goal in Foum Draa on pre-existing 3D seismic.
One of positioning the Company for future growth.
prospect is planned to be drilled in 2013 and the next prospect may be scheduled for drilling in 2014, subject to necessary approvals.
The distribution of US$3.5bn to shareholders The profit after tax for the year of US$73m early in the year marked the culmination of a reflects foreign exchange gains and other An Esso 1968 69 well discovered and tested US$4.5bn capital return to shareholders over finance income, offset against the costs 2,377 bopd of heavy oil in Upper Jurassic the past five years.
The distribution also reduced of unsuccessful exploration activities.
carbonates at Cap Juby on the Juby Maritime the Companys equity base, re-gearing it to I permit.
We believe significant exploration frontier exploration success.
Additional proceeds The Company is in a strong position with potential exists in the Middle Jurassic carbonates were realised from subsequent share sales of Group net cash at 31 December 2012 of where a previously sub-optimally located well our residual CIL shareholding throughout the US$1.6bn and an 10% residual shareholding encountered 38 API oil shows.
These additional proceeds were retained in CIL valued at US$1.1bn.
over the Cap Juby structure is currently being as working capital to further strengthen the reprocessed and an exploration well, subject Companys cash position, fund the two The areas we have chosen for our exploration to necessary approvals, is planned in 2013. corporate acquisitions made during the year and focus include the frontier basins along the Elsewhere, Cairn acquired a 680km 3D seismic to build then take forward the frontier exploration Atlantic Margin and in the Mediterranean, as well survey over a carbonate edge prospect in the portfolio.
The demonstration of market liquidity as targeting new plays within the more mature Juby Maritime II permit in late 2012 which of the CIL shareholding as a financial asset is UK North Sea and Norwegian Continental Shelf.
will be a candidate for an exploration well relevant when it is considered that our remaining The corporate acquisitions during 2012 have in 2013 2014.
10% interest had a year-end market value of provided non-operated interests in the preUS$1.1bn.
development Kraken, Catcher and Mariner oil Senegal fields located in the UK North Sea and have We are pleased to announce a farm-in as The Company has remained focused on secured future long term cash flows.
Operator 65% to the Sangomar, Sangomar its vision to create an exploration led and Deep and Rufisque frontier exploration blocks sustainable cash generative oil and gas business Our clear focus is to operate exploration offshore Senegal held by FAR Limited FAR, offering shareholders exposure to material positions and opportunities which we believe with Petrosen the Senegal National Oil capital growth potential.
By constructing have the most organic growth potential and Company as a Joint Venture JV partner, a balanced portfolio of growth opportunities, where we have the experience, ability and subject to regulatory approval.
These blocks whilst retaining a strong balance sheet, we knowledge to add most value.
As a consequence, straddle the Mesozoic carbonate shelf edge are well placed to repeat the cycle of creating, we are planning an extendable programme to and contain multiple play types and have an adding and realising shareholder value.
drill multiple frontier exploration wells over the estimated gross mean un-risked Yet to Find coming 18 months which will target 3.5bn boe prospective resource of 1.5bn boe.
of mean un-risked gross prospective resource within a total of Yet to Find potential in excess It is the intention, subject to necessary of 8.5bn boe.
approvals, to drill an exploration well on the L prospect which has an estimated gross mean un-risked prospective resource of more than Share price performance from 2002 to 2012 GBp 250 million barrels of oil mmbbls in 2013 2014.
Depending on the well results, further drilling can be anticipated.
Cairn is to acquire its working 1,600 interest operatorship by funding 100% of the costs of one exploration well to an investment cap.
Thereafter exploration costs will be 1,200 apportioned Cairn 72.2% Working Interest WI 65%, FAR 27.8% WI 25% and Petrosen 0.0% WI 10%.
As part of the transaction, Cairn will 800 also pay 72.2% of costs incurred by FAR to date on the blocks, a total of US$10m.
400 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Cairn Energy FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE 350 FTSE 350 O&G 8 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Greenland The Skarfjell oil discovery well 35 9-7 made We anticipate that the development of the The Shell operated industry consortium by Wintershall UK North Sea Ltd in April 2012 Catcher and Kraken fields will lead to first oil and shallow borehole programme undertaken Cairn 20% was immediately followed by a 3D cash flow in 2016 17.
Cairn will also participate in the summer of 2012 has for the first time seismic survey and appraisal continues with in a number of non-operated exploration wells established a stratigraphy for the Baffin Bay the down-dip 35 9-8 well currently operating in the UK and Norway on an annual basis.
The boreholes additionally encountered good oil prone source rocks and reservoir estimated gross 2C resource range for Skarfjell These foundations will help support a multi-year quality sands in the Cretaceous section.
Cairn post discovery was between 60mmbbls and drilling campaign involving multiple and material also repeated and extended its 2011 geochemical 160mmbbls.
The current appraisal well is exploration wells.
The lower capital base achieved survey in 2012 to give statistically more meaningful designed to test reservoir extent, thickness by the redistribution of cash following the results.
Evaluation of this work confirms the and quality down-dip as well as establish fluid realisation of value from past successes ideally Melville Basin as having an active petroleum content below the known oil down to in the positions shareholders to benefit from the system, whilst recognising that the basin discovery well.
Resource estimates will be enhanced gearing to future exploration success.
This conclusion also underpins updated following the field appraisal.
the increased industry activity and interest in the region with a number of other operators The Field Development Plan FDP was approved acquiring seismic data during 2012. for the Mariner field in February 2013.
The FDPs for the Kraken and Catcher fields, operated by Sir Bill Gammell It is estimated that the aggregate gross mean EnQuest and Premier Oil will be submitted H1 Chairman Yet to Find unrisked prospective resource and H2 2013 respectively.
of Cairns licences offshore Greenland is 6bn boe.
People We would like to recognise and thank Cairns current focus in the region is on the all the creative effort, hard work and Pitu block.
Cairn 56.825% with its joint venture commitment the management, Simon Thomson partners Nunaoil 12.5% and Statoil ASA employees and contractor teams Chief Executive 30.625%, the latter having farmed into Pitu working for Cairn have put in during in 2012.
A drilling decision will be taken in 2013 our work in the last year.
18 March 2013 targeting an exploration well in 2014, subject to necessary approvals.
We are delighted to report that Paul Mayland has been appointed Chief Operating Officer for As with all our operations, we ensure that we Cairn, reporting directly to Simon Thomson.
act responsibly, taking a high level of care and We believe that to ensure we deliver our respect towards the people and environments goals and provide shareholder value where we work.
For example, during the we must employ the right people in summer of 2012, a team undertook public the right roles.
We seek to ensure consultations with the local communities located a diverse workforce and encourage near the Pitu area.
The information gathered women to pursue careers in our during these meetings will inform our approach industry.
At present, women comprise as we develop our plans for 2014.
22% of our board, 33% of our management and 49% of our staff Elsewhere in Greenland, we continue to evaluate across our whole organisation.
the data acquired over the last few field seasons and will seek to farm-out certain areas and Outlook rationalise the portfolio.
Following the cash return to shareholders and the creation The Greenland Government has now opened of a balanced portfolio of frontier the blocks off the north east coast of Greenland exploration prospects, Cairn is for licencing.
This area is the conjugate margin well placed to deliver on its to northern Norway, where many major new finds strategy to pursue exploration have been made.
Bid round 1 was exclusive led growth.
to the oil majors of the Kanamas group Shell, Chevron, ExxonMobil, Statoil, BP and Japan National Oil Corporation JNOC.
Bid Round 2 will be open to any qualifying industry player.
UK and Norwegian North Sea & Norwegian Continental Shelf The corporate acquisitions made in 2012 provide us with the platform to deliver solid and sustainable cash flow, as well as mature basin exploration opportunities in the Norwegian and UK North Sea.
Furthermore, they bring a team with a wealth of exploration experience in the region that greatly widens our technical capability and ability to evaluate new opportunities.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
