STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2012 has seen the group make further excellent progress.
We have increased profits by 11.7%, despite continued tough economic conditions in the UK.
Peter Crook Chief Executive Our strong performance in 2012 has been Development of the product GROUP ROE % underpinned by an excellent result from proposition including the launch in 48 Vanquis Bank which increased profits August of a pre-paid card called the from 44.2m to 68.0m due to strong One Card which allows customers DIVIDEND TIMES receivables growth and a favourable to spend and access special offers COVER 1.32 arrears performance.
across some 60 online and high street retailers.
In addition, the existing Gold GEARING The Consumer Credit Division CCD TIMES Card offered to good-quality customers 3.2 produced another solid performance in the run-up to Christmas has been reporting profits of 125.1m, marginally significantly enhanced.
Spend against P rior to an exceptional credit of down from 2011, at a time when inflationary 15.6m in 2012. these cards totalled 43m in 2012, pressures have continued to place increased up from 28m in 2011. pressure on customers disposable incomes.
TV advertising, featuring the launch of The strong growth in profits has allowed the One Card across ITV2 and a number us to increase the 2012 dividend by 11.9% of freeview and satellite stations during whilst maintaining dividend cover of the autumn, has proved to be an 1.32 times.
The groups funding and liquidity positions Approaching 10,000 new customers are strong.
Our year-end gearing of 3.2 can be directly attributed to the times, is well below the groups target campaign and have been added at an level of 3.5 times and we have sufficient average acquisition cost which is very committed facilities, including the retail competitive in comparison with deposits programme at Vanquis Bank, to other channels such as direct mail.
fund growth and contractual maturities Increasing the effectiveness of the out to May 2015. field organisation has seen further As well as delivering an excellent financial consolidation of smaller, less performance in 2012, we have continued profitable agencies into larger, better to strengthen the operational capability managed agencies and reduced of the business in a number of ways: agency numbers by 700 to 9,800 during 2012.
In addition, further Delivering sustainable growth in CCD enhancements to the agents The focus of CCD through the downturn commission scheme were announced has been on managing the business in October.
The changes involve cautiously and positioning it to deliver rewarding agents whose agencies sustainable growth.
As well as maintaining consistently deliver good-quality tight underwriting standards, 2012 has growth with a higher commission seen further development across a number rate on collections.
The scheme of linked initiatives which are designed to became effective in early February bolster medium-term growth prospects 2013 and has already started to and business effectiveness: benefit the sales and collection performance of many agencies.
Expansion of the geographic footprint of the business in order to increase Investment in IT is central to many of penetration in areas where the business the initiatives taking place across the has become under-represented.
It is also important in driving WE HAVE CONTINUED TO further 13 new branches were added greater efficiency.
An example is STRENGTHEN THE OPERATIONAL in the year, making a total of 19 over the pre-population of customer loan CAPABILITY OF THE BUSINESS IN the last two years.
The early progress agreements based on stored data which A NUMBER OF WAYS.
being made by these new openings has roughly halved the time taken to Peter Crook is encouraging.
issue a new loan to an existing customer Chief Executive 20 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT which had increased significantly following the introduction of the EC Consumer Credit Directive in early 2011.
These initiatives ensure that CCD is well placed to deliver sustainable growth assisted by any recovery in real incomes and consumer confidence.
Pilot credit card operation in Poland Following the success of Vanquis Bank in the UK, we have been exploring new medium-term growth opportunities representatives increased from 40 to market since launch has proved that for the business.
This work has included retail deposit-taking provides funding 160 supporting the strong growth in the a review of EU territories which have a business.
The Bradford site is now being flexibility and a valuable diversification critical mass of under-served non-standard of the groups funding sources.
reconfigured in order to allow Vanquis consumers and into which the business Bank to grow its number of seats to a can passport its banking licence.
Against MARKET CONDITIONS total of 340 over the next two years.
The these criteria, Poland emerged as the The competitive landscape for CCD additional capacity will allow the business most attractive opportunity and, during remains unchanged with around 500 to continue its strong growth and also 2012, Vanquis Bank commenced a pilot active home credit participants in the UK.
provides much needed employment of a credit card targeted at the nonHome credit customers tend to be opportunities in the Bradford area standard segment of the Polish market hourly paid with a bias towards more where the group has had its roots with the objective of developing and casual, temporary and part-time for over 130 years.
testing a customer proposition capable employment.
Whilst household incomes of delivering the groups target returns.
of home credit customers have shown Further diversification some modest growth over the last The product proposition has been of the funding base 12 months, disposable incomes have not well received by customers.
The first The group issued its third retail bond of recovered and continue to be adversely credit cards were issued in June, when 120m in March 2012.
The group was the affected by food, fuel and utility price distribution commenced through a single first issuer on the London Stock Exchanges inflation.
Customer behaviour remains regional broker.
The Polish website went ORB platform with a 25.2m issue in 2010 cautious, especially the demand for live for applications in September and which was followed by a 50m bond in credit for more discretionary items further distribution was added through 2011.
The retail bond market has continued of expenditure.
As a result, against a national broker in December.
At the end to develop and the success of the third unchanged tight underwriting standards, of December, the Polish pilot operation retail bond demonstrates the value of sales to existing customers have been had 9,000 customers and receivables this market to the group.
Vanquis Bank launched its retail deposits Vanquis Bank continues to experience The business platform is operating programme in mid-2011.
During 2012, the strong demand in the under-served successfully and sufficient business business increased its retail deposits base non-standard credit card market.
Whilst is now being written to allow Vanquis from 140m to 327m which represents the marketing activity of competitors Bank to develop bespoke credit tools approximately 51% of Vanquis Banks year - has increased modestly, it has had no which are a prerequisite for moving end receivables.
This is lower than the FSA discernible impact on new account the business to scale.
permitted level, which has been increased bookings.
Increased investment in the from 80% to 90%, and reflects the Overall the pilot operation is progressing customer acquisition programme, deliberate moderation of the programme in line with managements plans and particularly in direct mail, has seen in March following the successful launch costs for the year amounted to 3.3m, record new account bookings in 2012 of the groups third retail bond and the consistent with previous guidance.
Firm of 375,000, up from 294,000 in 2011. consequent increase in the groups conclusions on the results of the pilot Vanquis Bank customers are typically in committed debt facilities.
The retail are expected to be reached at the half more regular employment than home deposits programme will continue to year.
Vanquis Bank is expected to incur credit customers although the business build towards the maximum permitted costs of approximately 3m in the first has demonstrated that it is less sensitive target as the Vanquis Bank business half of 2013 in respect of the pilot.
to changes in the employment market grows and the groups overall funding than mainstream card issuers.
Expansion of Vanquis Banks unemployment has remained relatively second contact centre in Bradford The retail deposits platform and product stable throughout 2012 and, as a result, Due to the strong growth in the business distribution provided by Newcastle arrears levels have been running at record and due to capacity constraints at the Building Society both continue to work lows for the business.
Tight underwriting existing 400-seat contact centre in very well.
The retail deposits market standards remain in place as a cautious Chatham, Vanquis Bank opened a second in the UK is significant at over 70bn of positioning of the business against the contact centre in late 2011 in CCDs renewals and new funds each year and risk of any future deterioration in the Bradford head office.
During 2012, the is very sensitive to the product rate on UK employment market.
number of Bradford-based contact centre offer.
Vanquis Banks experience in this 21 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW STRATEGY To deliver our mission, we have four strategic aims: 1.
The growth of high return of which will be assessed by the times, comfortably inside our 2013 half year.
If successful, further banking covenant of 5.0 times.
on equity businesses in non-standard markets expansion into other EU territories 4.
Acting responsibly in our will be considered.
We specialise in investing in and relationships with customers developing businesses that provide 2.
Generating high shareholder returns and making a positive contribution high returns on a relatively small Our strategy of developing businesses to the communities served by the amount of equity capital deployed.
which generate strong returns on groups businesses We are focussed on maintaining equity capital underpins our generous We are passionate about ensuring steady growth in CCD whilst dividend policy which aims to distribute that we provide our customers with improving operational efficiency up to 80% of our profits to shareholders.
an excellent product proposition to continue to deliver significant Our overall total shareholder return and service and I am proud that we returns.
CCD is an excellent business performance has been very good since continue to earn extremely high which is capable of delivering low the demerger of the international levels of customer satisfaction in single digit annual growth in its business in 2007.
We aim to generate both our businesses.
We support receivables book during normal sustainable growth in profits and this by investing approximately economic conditions and generating dividends to continue to deliver 1% of our pre-tax profits into our earnings growth at above these attractive shareholder returns.
At Vanquis Bank, we aim to provides valuable benefits to maintain the post-tax return on 3.
Maintaining a secure funding the communities in which our and capital structure equity of the business at over 30% customers and agents live and whilst continuing to grow the We maintain a strong balance sheet in which our staff work.
Our receivables book at similar levels to recent years.
We are exploring new business model is based upon Our leading positions in both the borrowing long and lending short and home credit and non-standard medium-term growth opportunities for the business through both maintaining a diverse funding base, credit card markets provide a very including bank funding, public and good base from which to continue geographic and product expansion.
The first stage of this work is the private bonds, private placements to deliver a strong performance, and retail deposit-taking in Vanquis particularly as and when economic launch of the pilot Polish credit card operation during 2012, the results Bank.
Our target gearing ratio is 3.5 conditions improve.
LOOKING AHEAD KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Our business is simple we provide The group uses a number of KPIs to assess small amounts of money to help The UK non-standard credit market is ordinary people on below-average expected to show steady growth in 2013 progress against each of its strategic objectives, including both financial and incomes get on with their lives and and beyond reflecting structural changes participate in society.
The stability and in the employment market which is non-financial measures.
Our performance during 2012, measured using these KPIs, soundness of our business is rooted in increasing the number of part-time, our intimate understanding of our casual and temporary workers.
It is our together with our plans for 2013, are set out on pages 24 to 27. customers.
Unlike most mainstream firm aim to remain the leading lender credit organisations, we make a point in this market.
These KPIs are helpful in assessing progress of maintaining close contact with our but are not exhaustive as management We expect economic conditions in the UK customers throughout the whole cycle also takes account of other measures in to remain difficult throughout 2013 with of a loan.
We work hard to get to know assessing performance.
continued pressure on disposable incomes our customers well and build productive from rising food, fuel and utility bills and OUR BUSINESS MODEL relationships with them.
Our products the employment market remaining fragile.
are designed to be simple and transparent The key to Provident Financials success As a result, we will continue to focus on and the delivery of high returns for our and we adopt a low and grow approach the quality of the receivables book and to responsible lending.
shareholders is our different approach managing the business tightly.
Our main aim and our robust business model.
We underpin our business with solid in CCD will be to maintain the quality of We lend to customers who others find it foundations.
We borrow long and lend the receivables book, develop sustainable difficult to serve.
The UK non-standard short, maintain diverse funding sources growth opportunities and continue to market of around 10 million people has and ensure that we adopt prudent, improve the operational efficiency of the become the domain of specialist lenders.
In Vanquis Bank, we will look to Many more mainstream lenders who have focus on investing in highly capitalmaintain the strong momentum built up operated in this market have either failed, generative businesses that allow us to over recent years and continue to explore withdrawn or restructured whilst maintain the investment in the group opportunities to increase the revenue Provident Financial has continued to be and provide our shareholders with streams from our well-established successful.
We have over 130 years of good returns.
platform, particularly through progressing expertise in serving the non-standard and then assessing the Polish pilot Further detail on our business model market and will continue to focus all of operation at the end of the first half.
is set out on page 14. our expertise and resources in this sector.
22 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT The growth in Vanquis Bank in the UK over Provident Financials future prospects we have highly skilled and experienced the last two years has exceeded internal are attractive: management teams in both our plans and the demand for non-standard businesses and have strengthened we have a long track record of credit cards in the UK is expected to remain the CCD board over the past year: operating successfully in the nonstrong.
The business is achieving greater standard market which has become our businesses generate high penetration of its target market through the domain of specialists like us: shareholder returns and are very enhanced marketing strategies.
We are capital-generative, supporting a high therefore revising upwards our assessment we have an attractive business model and sustainable distribution policy: and of the medium-term potential size of with businesses that are inherently the UK business from addressing its more resilient through difficult we have a strong balance sheet and current target market to between market conditions: a prudent funding structure.
1.3 and 1.5 million customers, from we have a home credit business with 2012 has been another very good year the previous assessment of between opportunities for sustainable growth for Provident Financial.
I am confident 1.0 and 1.2 million communicated in 2011. through growing agent capacity, that in 2013 we can continue to develop There is no change to the assessment expanding the geographic footprint our businesses and deliver another year that the average customer balance and product innovation: of success for all of our stakeholders.
will be between 800 to 1,000 as the business approaches a more mature we continue to generate strong, state.
In practice, the medium-term profitable and capital-generative Peter Crook rate of growth will be dictated by growth in Vanquis Bank: Chief Executive economic conditions, the emergence we have an excellent UK credit card of competition and the strict financial 26 February 2013 platform, channels to market and objective of maintaining a minimum credit expertise in Vanquis Bank that post-tax return on equity of 30%.
we believe have the potential to be exported into other territories and product offerings: MISSION AND VALUES 1.
Fair We are fair and reasonable in The groups mission is to be the leading our dealings with stakeholders.
non-standard lender in its chosen markets, acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
To assist in the delivery of our mission, we have 2.
Responsible a number of core values that are embedded in We conduct our business dealings responsibly the business.
and ensure that we have a positive impact on the environment and communities we serve.
Our values help us to run our business in a sustainable, responsible way, to the benefit of all our stakeholders and to be a source of pride for our employees.
Accessible We provide our customers with access to products which meet their needs.
Straightforward We are straightforward, open and honest in all our dealings.
Progressive We anticipate and respond to the challenges of a changing world.
