04 Overview Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives report A strong performance based on consistent strategy In 20 12, we have delivered a strong performance.
Our Group has achieved signifi cant and profi table growth and produced increased levels of cash, which allowed us to provide our shareholders with a growing dividend.
Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive Full-year dividend 15.9% 29.19p 25.19p 23.85p 19.85p 18.90p 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 IFRS operating profit based on 1 longer-term investment returns 25% 2,533m 2,027m 1,826m 1,428m 1,248m 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Overview Group Chief Executives report Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 05 I am pleased to report a strong performance in 2012.
In the US, we have continued to invest in our Our focus on our customers in each of our geographies, distribution as well, strengthening our relationship with our combined with the strength of our distribution, partners.
We have, throughout the year, ensured that we put franchise and brands, has allowed us to continue to value ahead of volume, ensuring that we reached our return provide distinctive value to our customers.
Thanks to on capital and payback targets.
To mention a few examples, this, the Group has continued to deliver on the three in Malaysia we refocused the business on higher-value, key fi financial metrics we have focused on since 2009: lower-volume protection business.
In Korea and in Taiwan, IFRS operating profi t, new business profi t and net cash at times during the year, we refused to write poor-value business, remittances.
In 2012 in Asia, we have achieved two of the sacri cing some sales growth in the process.
2013 Growth and Cash objectives and have continued We have maintained our bias in favour of insurance income to make progress towards achieving the others, despite and fee income, which have grown as a proportion of our pro ts, a global macroeconomic environment which remains ahead of spread income.
True to that logic, in the US we acquired challenging and historically low long-term interest rates.
Reassure America Life Insurance Company REALIC, which Our strategy has remained consistent: to accelerate growth increased our insurance income.
We also continue to drive our product mix to achieve the optimal balance between growth in Asia: to build on the strength of our US operations: to focus the UK business and to optimise asset management.
We have in sales, pro t growth, cash generation and capital strength.
Therefore, we have continued to emphasise and to grow remained focused on executing that strategy with discipline and on producing strong results across our geographies.
protection products in Asia, which also provide excellent value to our customers.
In the US, we have seen growing demand for Asia has delivered excellent results in 2012.
Our business, Elite Access, a variable annuity without guarantees, launched Prudential Corporation Asia, which is already one of the largest in March 2012.
Elite Access allows us to meet the needs of a key in the region, has nevertheless been able to more than double its customer segment and to grow pro tably while staying within IFRS operating pro t in three years to almost 1 billion, delivering our quantitative risk appetite in the year.
We believe Elite Access 988 million in 2012.
That growth in IFRS operating pro t was not has excellent prospects in the US market.
More generally, we achieved at the expense of cash generation or by slowing down have continually and proactively re-priced our products and sales growth.
Asia reported record new business pro t in 2012. modi ed their features to ensure they continued to generate It also delivered a net cash remittance of 341 million, exceeding adequate returns in the new interest rate environment.
For the first time in our history, Asia was the largest contributor of cash to the Group, Having looked at the strength and sustainability of the results we an exceptional performance when you consider that in 2009 have generated, the Board has decided to rebase our dividend Asias net cash remittance was 40 million.
This performance upwards for the second time in three years.
This decision re ects was largely driven by the clear progress we have made in some the Boards con dence in the Groups ability to continue to of our sweet-spot markets, particularly Indonesia, Singapore, deliver strong, sustainable financial performance.
Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand.
Group performance There was strong growth in the US, with total IFRS operating The Groups strategy is supported by three key Group-wide pro t exceeding 1 billion for the first time, demonstrating the operating principles.
strength of Jacksons operations in a competitive marketplace.
The UK remains focused on with-pro ts products and individual First, we take a balanced approach to performance management across the key measures of IFRS, EEV and annuities, seeing strong sales of both in a dif cult market.
M&G has seen record net ows at 16.9 billion, IFRS operating pro t cash, with a particular focus on IFRS and cash.
The Group has reported a strong performance across all business units and funds under management, all driven by its investment performance and customer proposition.
Our IFRS operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns increased by 25 per cent in In a turbulent environment, we have continued to take proactive 1 2012 to 2,533 million 2011: 2,027 million led by Asia and and decisive management action to deliver on our strategy.
IFRS shareholders funds increased by 21 per cent to In our industry, distribution is absolutely key.
Therefore we 1 10.4 billion, compared to 8.6 billion as at 31 December 2011. have continued to strengthen our ability to reach our chosen EEV operating pro t grew by 9 per cent to 4,321 million customers in our chosen markets.
For instance, we have 2011: 3,978 million.
Net cash remittances to the Group strengthened our distribution in Thailand by establishing an from our businesses increased by 9 per cent to 1,200 million exclusive partnership with Thanachart Bank, a leading bank 2011: 1,105 million, with Asia now the largest contributor.
in this market, and through the acquisition of its life business, Note 1 Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of the accounting policy change for deferred acquisition costs as discussed in note A5 of the IFRS fi financial statements.
06 Overview Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives report continued Second, we focus on allocating capital to the highest return and 2013 Growth and Cash objectives shortest payback opportunities across the Group, taking strong 2012 has made a strong contribution to our progress towards action where necessary, such as deliberately reducing sales in delivering our challenging 2013 Growth and Cash objectives geographies, products or channels where our return and payback that I set out at our 2010 investor conference.
Asia has achieved criteria are not met.
Our insurance businesses in Asia, the US, two of its three 2013 objectives in 2012 and the Group remains and the UK have delivered a 14 per cent increase in new business on track to meet the remaining objectives.
pro t to 2,452 million 2011: 2,151 million with a distinctive Turning first to our Asia objectives, I said in 2010 that we would 18 per cent increase in Asia.
APE sales for the Group have aim to double our 2009 IFRS operating pro t to 930 million by increased by 14 per cent to 4,195 million 2011: 3,681 million 2013 or, in other words, that we would double our IFRS operating in 2012 and included the Groups best-ever fourth quarter.
In 2012, we have achieved IFRS operating M&G has attracted strong net in ows of 16.9 billion 2 pro t of 988 million 2011: 784 million.
We have, therefore, 2011: 4.4 billion, a record performance led by the return more than doubled pro ts in three years, rather than four.
of investors risk appetite in Continental Europe, where M&G Asia has also exceeded its 2013 cash objective, remitting a has built a strong position over the last few years, and markettotal of 341 million to the Group against a 2013 objective of leading sales in the UK retail market.
Looking at the remaining Asia objective, by the Third, we are proactive in managing risk across the cycle.
end of 2013 we aim to double 2009 new business pro t to Our balance sheet continues to be defensively positioned 1,426 million and we remain on target to reach this, with the 1 and at the end of the period our IGD surplus was 5.1 billion business producing 1,266 million in 2012 2011: 1,076 million.
Our surplus increased due to These results were achieved despite an unfavourable and strong net capital generation through operating earnings offset, volatile macroeconomic environment.
as usual, by external dividend payments and other costs.
Beyond Asia, there has been continued progress towards our We continue to focus on promoting transparency by providing other cash objectives.
The US remitted 249 million in 2012 shareholders with relevant disclosures about our business and 2011: 322 million including exceptional release of surplus, how we run it, to ensure that both our strategy and our operating on track to meet its 2013 cash objective raised from 200 million principles are well understood.
In addition to the disclosures that to 260 million earlier this year.
The UK made remittances to the are provided with our quarterly financial results, since 2010 Group of 313 million in 2012, on track to meet its 2013 objective we have organised an annual seminar to provide investors and of 350 million.
analysts with a further opportunity to discuss the business in Looking at the cumulative cash target of 3.8 billion over the detail with the Groups senior management.
four-year period from 2010 to end-2013, we have so far achieved We have organised three investor seminars in London on 85 per cent of the total objective with one year remaining.
1 December 2010, Kuala Lumpur on 15 November 2011 and New York on 29 November 2012.
These seminars Actual Objective consisted of presentations on different aspects of our business 2012 2013 m m including: Group strategy: our operating principles: the 2013 Growth and Cash objectives: our Asian business, including Asia pro tability country-by-country presentations: and Jackson, with further Value of new business 1,266 1,426 note 3 IFRS operating pro t 988 930 insights into its hedging strategy, capital position and sensitivity to market shocks.
We intend to hold a fourth annual seminar in Business unit net remittance objectives note 4 the last quarter of 2013 in London.
Asia 341 300 note 5 Jackson 249 260 UK 313 350 Cumulative net cash remittances from 2010 onwards 3,240 3,800 Notes 1 From March 2013, the basis of calculating Jacksons contribution to the Groups IGD surplus will change.
Further detail can be found in the Capital position, fi nancing and liquidity section of the Chief Financial Offi cers overview.
2 Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of the accounting policy change for deferred acquisition costs as discussed in note A5 of the IFRS fi financial statements.
3 Total Asia operating profi t from long-term business and Eastspring Investments aft er development costs.
2012 operating profi t includes a one-off gain of 51 million arising on sale of the Groups holding in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan.
4 Remittances from Asia in 2012 include a non-recurring net remittance of 27 million, representing cash from sale of Groups holding in China Life Insurance Company in Taiwan off set by repayment of funding contingent on future profi ts of the Hong Kong life insurance operations.
5 The net remittance objective for Jackson was increased from 200 million to 260 million to refl ect the positive impact of the acquisition of REALIC.
Overview Group Chief Executives report Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 07 Our operating performance by business unit importantly, the quality and productivity of our agency force.
Prudential Corporation Asia In the bank channel, where we are the regional leader, our Our strategy in Asia is focused on meeting the needs of the partnerships with Standard Chartered Bank SCB and United emerging middle class in the region for savings and protection.
Overseas Bank UOB have seen considerable sales growth, The regions positive demographics, strong economic growth, up 42 per cent and 65 per cent respectively.
Regular premium sound public nances and favourable public policy environment products make up the bulk of our new business in excess of with a clear preference for private provision of protection, have 90 per cent of total APE sales with higher-margin protection all led to a rapidly expanding middle class, with a strong and products making up almost one-third of new business APE.
growing demand for our savings and protection products.
Our four largest markets Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore Geographically, Asia is a vast and diverse region.
Our primary and Malaysia have made the most material contribution to the regions growth in recent years.
In addition to our well known area of focus is on what we call our sweet-spot Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand strength in these four markets, we are building our presence and distribution in other markets that have the potential to become and Vietnam.
All these markets have attractive long-term characteristics.
We are in a strong position to capture pro tably material drivers of growth over the medium and long term.
Two such markets are Thailand and the Philippines, which in the growing demand for our products and services in these selected markets.
We continuously invest in these markets aggregate grew new business pro t by 93 per cent in 2012.
In Thailand, a market with considerable and attractive growth to grow our distribution and to ensure we are well positioned in terms of people, systems and capabilities.
We will continue potential, where we were historically underweight, our recently announced exclusive long-term bancassurance partnership with to innovate to meet the evolving needs of our customers and maintain our focus on regular premium savings and Thanachart, and the acquisition of Thanachart Life, ful ls our long-standing ambition to signi cantly increase our footprint in protection products.
In the Philippines, where we are a market leader, Our primary growth metric is new business pro t rather than our business is now making good progress, delivering strong sales.
This focus on new business pro t has ensured we have and pro table growth.
We believe this market has promising delivered healthy and sustainable quality growth.
In 2012, new prospects due to its large population and the improved quality business pro t was up 18 per cent in the region, led by Indonesia, of its macroeconomic management, with its renewed emphasis Singapore and Malaysia, up 27 per cent collectively.
While on attracting foreign direct investment as well as the upgrading under-penetration of insurance in markets across the region of the countrys infrastructure.
In January 2013, we started life offers signi cant long-term growth opportunities, we retain insurance operations in Cambodia, our 13th market, and entered our focus on value not volume.
New business pro t grew more into a partnership with ACLEDA Bank PLC, the largest retail and quickly than sales as we refocused our businesses in Taiwan, commercial bank in the country.
This is the first deal of its kind in Korea and Malaysia, deliberately reducing sales of lower-margin Cambodia, where we believe there are signi cant opportunities products to ensure a consistent focus on higher-value lines.
We for growth as the market develops.
are determined to continue taking management action across the region where and when required, to maintain our internal rates Overall, our geographic footprint, combined with the exceptional of return of more than 20 per cent across all businesses, with a quality of our distribution and of our products, has enabled us payback period in Asia of three years, despite the low interest to deliver another year of very strong performance in Asia.
Our 13 million insurance customers, whom we serve well and pro tably, represent only a small proportion of the long-term Our life business in Asia, with its focus on capital-ef cient potential of this part of the world for our company.
products and fast payback periods, continues to deliver pro table, cash-generative growth.
IFRS long-term Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson operating pro t in Asia increased by 30 per cent in the period The US is the worlds largest retirement savings market, 1 to 920 million 2011: 709 million and net cash remittances 2 reaching with large cohorts of the 78 million baby-boomers increased by 66 per cent to 341 million 2011: 206 million.
retirement age each year, creating signi cant demand for Our multi-channel distribution model is at the heart of our retirement income products.
Our strategy in the US is to take success and we have continued to grow and strengthen our advantage of this pro table growth opportunity.
We approach distribution further in 2012.
In both the agency and the bank this with a long-term perspective, proactively managing sales channels bancassurance the returns comfortably cover the through the economic cycle as our experience has shown us cost of capital, so we have a strong appetite for growth in both.
how important it is to put value ahead of volume in the variable These channels grew their respective contribution to new annuity market.
We take at all times a conservative approach business pro t at similar rates in 2012.
Agency is the largest to pricing, even when that means losing market share to other channel and we continue to increase both the scale and, players, while hedging our financial risks and managing our balance sheet.
Notes 1 Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of the accounting policy change for deferred acquisition costs, as discussed in note A5 of the IFRS fi financial statements.
08 Overview Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives report continued In 2012, Jackson delivered IFRS long-term operating Over the last decade, Prudential has been widely recognised as pro t of 964 million, up 48 per cent on the prior year the UKs leading with-pro ts manager.
This increase in pro ts is in part due to to the management of the with-pro ts fund has continued to increased fee income from the signi cant net ows captured bene t customers during 2012 as it helps to provide protection in the last few years, and in part due to the non-recurring in from the full impact of volatile market conditions.
The fund has 2012 of an accelerated deferred acquisition cost amortisation consistently outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index.
Over the charge of 190 million in 2011.
In 2012, new business pro t grew last 15 years, the fund has delivered a cumulative investment 7 per cent, with APE sales up 15 per cent as historically low return of 184.3 per cent on investments covering policyholder interest rates continued to weigh on pro ts.
This compares favourably with the FTSE All-Share taken during the year allowed Jackson to mitigate the negative Index total return of 106.5 per cent over the same period.
impact of these interest rates.
Total bonus payments are expected to top 2 billion in 2013 and our policyholders will typically see year-on-year increases There is always a degree of tactical management in the variable of between 3.5 per cent and 6.5 per cent in accumulating annuity market as sales are impacted by a number of factors, with-pro ts policy values.
Since 2003 an estimated 22 billion including but not limited to equity market levels, interest rates has been added to policy values.
Our UK business is also one of and the actions of Jacksons competitors.
During the second the largest providers of annuities in the UK and in 2012 paid out half of 2012, as equity markets recovered, we saw stronger 2.9 billion in income to UK annuitants.
sales growth in variable annuities despite pricing actions taken earlier in the year to mitigate the impact of lower investment Our performance in 2012 has been strong in a dif cult market, returns as bond yields remained low.
Therefore, in November which has been impacted by signi cant UK and EU regulatory and December Jackson worked closely with distributors to change.
This includes the implementation of the Retail proactively manage volumes and to ensure that the level of Distribution Review RDR, auto-enrolment for company sales for 2012 would remain within the Groups quantitative pension schemes and gender neutral pricing.
We will continue to proactively balance value, Our UK business has demonstrated resilience as it continues volume, capital and balance sheet strength in this market.
to bene t from its focus on its core products, with-pro ts In March 2012 we launched Elite Access, a variable annuity and individual annuities, with sales of both increasing by more without guarantees, which offers access to alternative than 30 per cent.
We achieve internal rates of return that are investments.
It taps into an unmet demand from customers and commensurate with other parts of the business.
New business has been particularly well received by distributors.
The launch pro t increased 20 per cent to 313 million 2011: 260 million of Elite Access helps Jackson to continue growing within the and IFRS long-term operating pro t grew 3 per cent to Groups risk appetite for products with guarantees.
We completed two acquisition of REALIC, a traditional US life business, has helped selective bulk annuity deals that contributed to this gure.
to diversify Jacksons earnings and make the business more Where we see opportunities for future pro table growth we resilient.
will seek to capitalise on them but only if they meet our payback In the context of industry debates about the advantages and criteria.
In 2013 we have commenced sales operations in Poland, disadvantages of various accounting methods, we believe that one of Europes fastest-growing economies, which has an cash generation is ultimately a very tangible metric of the quality expanding middle class and high savings rates.
Therefore we set Jackson a net cash We continue to assess the impact of the RDR, which was remittance objective for 2013 which, following the acquisition implemented on 31 December 2012, and the resulting of REALIC, was increased from 200 million to 260 million.
In changes to distributors business models.
This is likely to lead 2012, Jackson delivered net cash remittances of 249 million in to some short-term dislocation in the market as consumers and the year 2011: 322 million including an exceptional release of distributors adjust to the new sales environment.
We expect surplus and is on track to meet this objective.
this transition phase to dampen our sales of investment bonds in 2013, compared to the high sales in 2012.
We are con dent Prudential UK and Europe that the strength of our brand combined with our investment In the UK, Prudential has adopted a focused strategy and capabilities, financial strength and experience will ensure that competes selectively to help Britains ageing population convert we remain well placed to provide customers with dependable their accumulated wealth into retirement income.
We believe that with-pro ts products will clear focus on writing pro table new business while generating continue to be popular with customers seeking competitive cash sustainably and preserving our capital.
We concentrate on long-term real investment returns.
areas in which we have a clear competitive advantage, namely individual annuities and with-pro ts products, where we Net cash remittances were 313 million, up 5 per cent continue to be market leaders.
Our inherited estate, which is estimated at 7.0 billion 31 December 2011: 6.1 billion, is a key source of capital strength.
Note 1 Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of the accounting policy change for deferred acquisition costs, as discussed in note A5 of the IFRS fi financial statements.
Overview Group Chief Executives report Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 09 Asset management Capital and risk management Our asset management business, M&G, has continued to focus We take a disciplined approach to capital management and on delivering superior investment performance for our customers continue to take action to ensure our capital works ef ciently while maximising the strength of its distribution capabilities.
and effectively for the Group.
Using the regulatory measure It has pursued business diversi cation across both geographies of the Insurance Groups Directive IGD, our Group capital and asset classes.
Its retail funds are now registered for sale in surplus position at 31 December 2012 was estimated at 20 jurisdictions, with of ces in 15 countries.
During 2012, the 5.1 billion 31 December 2011: 4.0 billion, before allowing for business has seen record net sales, funds under management the final dividend.
The Groups required capital cover was three and IFRS operating pro t. The growth in sales has been driven times.
The structure of the Group, and the approach we have by M&Gs business in Continental Europe as investor risk taken to managing our risks, with a sizeable credit reserve in the appetite returned.
UK annuity book, a strong inherited estate in UK with-pro ts and the relatively low-risk nature of our asset management and M&G continued to attract signi cant new asset ows during Asia operations, together with a high level of IGD surplus, the recent years of global market volatility, testament to the means we have positioned ourselves well for future regulatory strength of its reputation and focus on investment performance.
developments and stresses to our business.
It has seen record total retail and institutional net in ows of 16.9 billion in 2012, signi cantly higher than 2011 and the There is broad agreement that ultimately it would be bene cial previous high of 13.5 billion in 2009. to replace the IGD regime with a regime that is more risk-based.
Solvency II may provide such a framework but we now know that Total net sales in the UK were lower than 2011, re ecting the it will not be implemented before 31 December 2015.
In common maturity of the UK business and management decisions to slow with other insurers we have been working with regulators to the in ow of new money into two market-leading UK corporate ensure that the current capital regime remains robust while we bond funds to safeguard investment performance.
We expect wait for the implementation of Solvency II.
these trends to persist in 2013.
Despite the deliberate slowing of sales in the UK, M&G was the UKs top-selling investment In early March 2013, we agreed with the FSA to revise the management house in 2012 and has ranked number one for both calculation of the contribution Jackson makes to the Groups IGD net and gross fund sales for an unprecedented four consecutive surplus.
We consider the revised basis to be an improvement as calendar years.
Net fund sales in Continental Europe have it is more closely aligned to the one we use to assess and report increased, generating a record 5.2 billion of net sales in 2012. free surplus.
In the absence of an agreed Solvency II approach, Assets sourced from outside the UK account for 29 per cent we believe that this change makes the IGD surplus a more of total retail funds under management, up from 25 per cent meaningful measure and one that is more closely aligned with in 2011. economic reality.
The revised IGD surplus calculation has no impact on the way that the US business is managed or regulated Underlying pro ts for the full year rose by 14 per cent to a locally.
On this revised basis, the IGD surplus at 28 February 2013 new record level of 298 million.
Following the addition of 1 is estimated at 4.4 billion, before allowing for the final dividend, performance-related fees and pro t from our associate equivalent to a capital cover of 2.5 times.
investment in South Africa, total operating pro t for 2012 was 320 million.
M&Gs funds under management also grew to a Uncertainty about the final Solvency II outcome remains.
We will record 228 billion 2011: 201 billion.
continue to evaluate our options, including consideration of the Groups domicile, in the event that the final outcome is negative Looking ahead, the diversi cation of our business by asset class and potentially impacts our ability to deliver value to our and geography positions us well to manage the expected shifts customers and shareholders.
We welcome the decision by the in consumer asset allocation going forward.
UK Financial Services Authority to strengthen the existing Eastspring Investments, our rebranded Asia asset management Individual Capital Adequacy Standards ICAS regime in the business, increased funds under management to 58.1 billion, absence of the implementation of Solvency II.
IFRS operating pro t was marginally lower, re ecting a change in product mix towards bond funds that attract lower fees.
Also costs were higher as we continued to invest in people and infrastructure, as we build out our offshore capabilities following the launch of the new brand.
This included opening a US distribution of ce, starting an operation in Indonesia and launching new funds in Taiwan, China and India.
Note 1 The estimated position at 28 February 2013 allows for economic conditions and surplus generation since 31 December 2012.
It is stated before the fi final dividend and the eff ect of the Thanachart acquisition and aft er allowing for a reduction in Jacksons contribution to IGD surplus of 1.3 billion.
n o i t a c o l l a l a t i p a c d e n i l p i c s i D P r o a c t i v e r i s k 10 Overview Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives report continued Dividend Our strategy and operating principles remain clear and The Board has decided to rebase the full-year dividend unchanged.
Asia is the key driver of sustainable and pro table upwards by 4 pence, re ecting the strong progress made in growth, building on the signi cant opportunity that the both the earnings and free surplus generation of the business emergence of the growing and increasingly wealthy middle class and in the delivery of our financial objectives.
In line with this, in this region represents.
Our best opportunities lie in South-east the directors recommend a final dividend of 20.79 pence per Asia, where the depth and breadth of Prudentials franchise is a share 2011: 17.24 pence, which brings the total dividend for source of strength.
Our business units in the US and in the UK the year to 29.19 pence 2011: 25.19 pence, representing an will continue to focus on delivering strong earnings and cash.
increase of 15.9 per cent over 2011.
We will achieve this by continuing to execute with discipline, by maintaining a robust balance sheet and with proactive The Board will maintain its focus on delivering a growing risk management.
dividend from this new higher base, which will continue to be determined after taking into account the Groups financial Our Group is set to continue to provide a distinctive combination of pro table growth and cash by meeting the needs of our exibility and our assessment of opportunities to generate attractive returns by investing in speci c areas of the business.
Our con dence is re ected in the decision to rebase the dividend upwards, the second time in The Board believes that in the medium term a dividend cover of around two times is appropriate.
three years, as we remain focused on creating long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders.
Outlook In 2012, we have delivered a strong performance.
In spite of tough macroeconomic conditions and the negative effect of persistently low long-term interest rates, our Group has achieved signi cant and pro table growth and produced increased levels of cash, which allowed us to provide our shareholders with a growing dividend.
Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive Strategy and operating principles Asia: United States: accelerate build on strength Page 20 Page 26 Focus on customers and distribution United Kingdom: Asset management: optimise focus Page 38 Page 32 m a n a g e m e n t s e r u s o l c s i d d n a s c i r t e m d e c n a l a B Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 11 Section 2 Business review 12 Financial highlights 14 Chief Financial Offi cers overview 20 B usiness unit review: A A A A A A A A A A A A Insurance operations: Asia, US, UK A A A A A A A A A A A A Asset management: M&G, Eastspring Investments, US 46 Financial review 68 Risk and capital management 79 Corporate responsibility review
