Chief Executives statement Andy Pomfret In terms of commission the year began and ended positively, Chief Executive but activity was fairly subdued in between, with the worst three months for commission occurring in the second half of the year as a result of holidays and the Christmas period.
Looking at credit markets, the second half of the year saw concerted action within Europe to stave off the eurozone crisis at least for the time being and this significantly reduced volatility towards the end of 2012.
As a bank, the cash in our investment As expected, 2012 presented a demanding management clients accounts is held with us investment climate for both Rathbones and on a banking basis and is then placed in the money markets.
We have been monitoring our clients.
Whilst we continued to grow, our counterparties carefully during the year increases in operating expenses, which were and the small amount of money that had been placed directly with Spanish and Italian predominantly planned, contributed to a counterparties was reduced to zero during fall of 1.0% in profit before tax.
We continue to monitor the counterparties in our treasury book and have recently opened an account Results and financial highlights with the Bank of England which currently pays base rate and As expected, 2012 presented a demanding investment in theory has zero risk.
The activities of the UK Government climate for both Rathbones and our clients.
Whilst we and the Bank of England have continued to reduce money continued to grow, increases in operating expenses, which market rates, so the interest rate margin that we are able to were predominantly planned, contributed to a fall of earn on our treasury book is much reduced and continues to 1.0% in profit before tax to 38.8 million in 2012 be under pressure.
At the end of the year, three month 2011: 39.2 million.
Underlying profit before amortisation certificates of deposit were paying close to 40 basis points.
of client relationships, head office relocation costs and, During the year we have taken the opportunity to grow in 2011, gains on disposal of financial securities fell from our loan book to 65.1 million from 36.4 million in 2011.
Basic earnings per share These loans are made to investment management clients rose to 67.00p from 66.72p in 2011, an increase of 0.4% on a short term basis and are generally secured against the mainly due to a lower corporate tax rate.
discretionary portfolio which we manage for them.
These As markets are more positive, the Board has decided to loans are seen as very attractive for those clients that require increase the final dividend for the year by 1p.
We are keen to expand this loan book uncertainties remain, but there are a number of acquisition during 2013 without changing our risk criteria.
opportunities that we are currently reviewing, and we expect Funds under management FUM there to be more in 2013.
We are keen to maintain capital 2012 2011 bn bn to take advantage of these opportunities, and this was part Investment Management 16.71 14.76 of the reason for our recent placing which was announced Unit Trusts 1.27 1.09 and completed in November, raising 24.0 million, net 17.98 15.85 of transaction costs.
The financial markets The market as measured by the level of the FTSE has been Underlying operating income 2012 2011 volatile during 2012 with a maximum swing of 14.7% from m m high to low, but on average was similar to market levels in Investment Management 146.7 135.1 2011 on our key charging dates.
In 2012, sentiment in the Unit Trusts 8.9 8.2 market was often adversely affected by continuing worries 155.6 143.3 about the future of the eurozone, but in the latter half of the year these seem to have abated in spite of medium and long term concerns in parts of Europe Greece and Spain, in particular not being resolved.
At the very end of the year, the United States managed to avoid, or at least defer, the fiscal cliff, which helped year end market levels.
Our 2012 income benefited for a full year from the small change to our charges that we made at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Chief Executives statement continued Acquisitions and growth in 2012 We made a number of acquisitions during the year including the purchase of Taylor Young Investment Management Funds under management have grown 13.4% to 17.98 Limiteds private client base in November.
This transaction billion for Rathbones as a whole 2011: 15.85 billion.
is expected to add up to 350 million to funds under Although at a headline level this represents a very satisfactory management in 2013 as clients are migrated to Rathbones.
rate of growth, it has become much harder to achieve net Eight Taylor Young staff have already joined us as part of the organic growth with two factors working against us.
Earlier in the year we acquired 100% of the a number of clients have suffered a reduction in the income share capital of R. M. Walkden & Co. Limited, successfully level that can be achieved from their portfolio over the last adding 76 million of funds under management, and the few years and as a result are withdrawing capital in order to investment management business of Allied Irish Bank Jersey, maintain lifestyle.
Secondly, the number of introductions we which provided our Jersey office with a boost of some 51 have had from independent financial advisers IFAs has million of funds under management and one member of staff.
decreased in the second half of 2012 as many have spent the We have also announced the acquisition of a small team of last few months concentrating on their preparedness for the investment managers who are setting up a new office in Retail Distribution Review RDR, which came into effect Lymington in early 2013 and we have recently opened an on 1 January 2013.
We believe that both of these significant office in Newcastle.
impacts are likely to continue into 2013 although in the In October 2012, we acquired a 19.9% stake in a high longer term the changes in the IFA market may well lead to quality IFA business based in the South West called Vision further consolidation of IFAs and give us opportunities Independent Financial Planning Limited, along with its sister to develop some significant relationships with some of the company, Castle Investment Solutions Limited together, better, higher-quality and well-established IFA groups.
Vision is a business that has been set up relatively recently, principally with As markets are more positive, the Board advisers who primarily used to work for has decided to increase the final dividend clearing banks.
The acquisition allows us access to a wider network of clients and for the year by 1p.
Economic uncertainties Vision continues to introduce these clients remain, but there are a number of acquisition to both us and a number of investment managers on their panel.
Prior to our opportunities that we are currently reviewing.
purchase, Vision had already introduced some 122 million of funds under management to us.
We not 2012 was also adversely impacted by a couple of client only expect the introductions to Rathbones to continue, but losses.
Firstly the loss of the management contract for our relationship with Vision will allow us to keep close to the the Albany Investment Trust, which had been managed by changes that are taking place following the introduction of our Liverpool office for over 60 years, but was the only RDR.
We also have an option to acquire the remaining investment trust we managed.
Secondly, we received notice 80.1% of Vision in three years time.
that our arrangement with Cavanagh Asset Management was coming to an end during November following We must never forget that the most attractive clients for us Cavanaghs takeover by Close Brothers in February 2012. are those that come to us directly.
In 2012 we have improved By the end of 2012 this had led to the loss of 31 million the marketing, advertising and support we give our offices out of the funds originally introduced to us by Cavanagh.
We have also run some events that have Relationships with significant introducers can be very attracted a great deal of interest and produced new client beneficial as they introduce clients to us with little marketing leads.
One of these is the very successful Annual Charity effort, but equally there is the danger that material amounts Symposium that we ran at the British Museum in September can be withdrawn at very short notice.
On a more positive 2012, where we had some 335 trustees in attendance.
note we added some significant new clients, particularly We have also received very favourable publicity for our in our charity business which now has over 2 billion under sponsorship of lacrosse in Scotlands schools and a number management.
Our Bristol office has also recently reached of financial awareness days that we run for children of 1 billion of funds under management.
our clients in our London and Liverpool offices.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 5 Chief Executives statement continued Acquisitions and growth in 2012 continued of schools in the Liverpool area over several years.
It also underlines the importance of Funds under management have grown 13.4% our Liverpool office, where we have over 350 people in some 65,000 square feet at to 17.98 billion for Rathbones as a whole.
The Port of Liverpool building.
This gives us ample room to expand and is where we During the year we conducted a significant number of have centred our operational activities for workshops with our staff and have had input from a number several years.
of external focus groups on our brand and how we should best use it in our marketing material.
This has led to During the year we modified our New Business Scheme considerable refinement of our brochures and with several to align awards more closely with the objective of getting changes to our paperwork required by regulatory changes investment managers to grow their business.
We also decided such as the splitting of the Financial Services Authority FSA to enrol all staff that join us from 1 January 2013 into into the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential pension arrangements and have been actively encouraging Regulation Authority PRA, we will be making a number all existing staff to join our pension schemes well in advance of further changes to our marketing and client documentation of the statutory deadline of October 2013. during 2013.
Our unit trust business has performed well in a difficult Regulation marketplace during 2012: by the end of the year we had seen During the year the FSA moved to adopt the twin peaks nine continuous quarters of net growth.
The performance approach to regulation by establishing teams that will of all of the publicly quoted funds was also good with the ultimately form the FCA and the PRA.
We have continued to majority of funds being in the first or second quartile for the work closely with our regulators and have had meetings with three years to the end of 2012.
The traditional funds have the teams from the FCA and the PRA and look forward to been supplemented by three multi asset portfolios which the situation being formalised on 1 April 2013.
As a bank, now also have a three year track record and which are very we will have prudential regulation from the PRA, but our well-placed to provide solutions for clients of IFAs in a conduct of business will be regulated by the FCA.
inevitably increase our regulatory burden, but we will be working with Our unit trust business has performed well both regulators to try to ensure that in a difficult marketplace during 2012: by the duplication is minimised.
end of the year we had seen nine continuous RDR came into effect on 1 January 2013 and all of our client-facing staff are suitably quarters of net growth.
The impact on the IFA community is potentially more marked and it will be Investing in the business interesting to see how this impacts their business in the coming year.
Benefits for clients are that not only will the fees We continue to believe that when other companies are that they pay be more transparent, but also that trail facing challenges and everyone is nervous about the overall commission is effectively being banned.
Although this has a direction of the market, it is often a good time for us to small negative effect on our income, it is a move we have make acquisitions and to invest in technology to improve our supported for many years and we are very pleased to see the efficiency and the overall client experience.
To that end we beginning of the end of trail commission.
have made some significant investments in technology in recent years and will continue to do so in 2013.
We are The regulators have also focused on the use of Unregulated rolling out an asset allocation modelling tool, developing a Collective Investment Schemes UCIS and we are expecting new online platform for both our clients and IFAs, and are some developments on this in 2013. continuing to roll out improved versions of our document The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS management system.
We have moved to a much better charge of 1.0 million in 2012 was some 0.6 million higher investment markets tool to support investment managers and than we have seen in previous years due to a larger number are spending more money on our internal research process, of failures and results of levy restatement exercises.
We both in terms of people and the tools they have.
We continue have been involved in the consultation on how the FSCS is to invest in staff by spending more on training and coaching funded in the future and await the final outcome of this and have recently introduced an apprenticeship programme consultation process.
in our Liverpool office which should see six apprentices joining us from local schools to start a full time career Alongside other industry members, we will be responding to with us.
This continues the theme of investing in the local FSA papers in the early part of 2013 on conflicts of interest community and the close links we have had with a number and outsourcing.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 Chief Executives statement continued Other matters Outlook I am particularly pleased to announce that Philip Howell Our primary aim is to continue what we have done for will be joining us on 4 March as deputy chief executive.
Most many years namely to look after clients well.
Although the recently Philip has been chief executive of Williams fide Bro markets are likely to remain volatile for some time to come, and his considerable experience will add to the strength and we believe we provide a very valuable service for our clients depth of our management team.
Along with Mike Webb the and charge them fairly for it.
We will continue to invest to chief executive of our unit trust business he will join the improve the client experience and to grow the business, both Groups executive committee.
I look forward to working organically and by acquisition.
We continue to be mindful with them both.
of increases in our cost base but recognise that it is important to continue to strengthen the business.
We remain wellThe new committees that were established during 2012 under positioned to make acquisitions, if the culture fits, and they our new head of investment management, Paul Chavasse, can be purchased on a basis which will be earnings have all started well.
These committees are the management enhancing for our shareholders.
committee, which looks after the day to day management of the investment management business, the client committee, Andy Pomfret which is concerned with marketing, client experience and Chief Executive growth of the business, and finally the investment committee, which is the custodian of our investment process.
The 19 February 2013 investment committee also coordinates research activities and how recommendations are communicated to investment managers who ultimately make investment decisions for their clients.
Our primary aim is to continue what we have done for many years namely to look after clients well.
Although the markets are likely to remain volatile for some time to come, we believe we provide a very valuable service for our clients and charge them fairly for it.
At the half year we announced that we had issued proceedings to confirm insurance cover against the insurers on the excess layer of our civil liability professional indemnity policy.
We had done this to protect the Companys interests as we were aware that a claim relating to the management of a Jersey trust had been filed against a former director of Rathbone Trust Company Jersey Limited, which was owned by us from March 2000 until October 2008.
A trial date for the insurance coverage claim has been set for Autumn 2013, but the underlying case in Jersey is unlikely to be heard until 2014.
We will keep the market informed of any material changes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2012 7
