ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 12 OUR B OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRA USINESS AND OUR STRATEGY TEGY Group Chief Executives review Watch or listen to Stephen Hester www.
com AnnualReview RBS is four years into its recovery plan and good progress has been made.
We are a much smaller, more focused and stronger bank.
Our target is for 2013 to be the last big year of restructuring.
There will be important work still to do, but an increasingly sound base from which to work.
As the spotlight shifts to the new RBS post restructuring, we are determined that it will show a leading UK bank striving to be a really good bank.
By serving customers well RBS can become one of the most respected, valued and stable of banks.
2012 saw landmark achievements for RBS.
It was also a chastening year.
Along with the rest of the banking industry we faced significant reputational challenges as we worked with regulators to put right past mistakes.
We are determined to overcome the cultural and reputational baggage of pre-crisis times with the same focus we have applied to the financial clean-up from that era.
Priorities The Banks purpose is to serve customers well.
The better we do this the better the results will be for all our stakeholders over time.
We need to complete and sustain our return to a safe and conservative risk profile.
And these priorities need in turn to produce a sustainable result for shareholders, and to create the opportunity for taxpayer share sales.
If we make continued progress across these priorities, and do it in the right way, we can become a really good bank and serve our stakeholders and society well.
2009-2012 Report Card RBS has: Sustained its 33 million customer franchise in the face of substantial restructuring and other pressures.
Lending balances to Core UK businesses and homeowners excluding commercial real estate were grown by over 3%, ahead of growth in the wider economy.
RBSs huge restructuring process is moving successfully to its later stages.
From their worst point, total assets are down 906 billion, shortterm wholesale borrowing is 255 billion down.
Risk concentrations are well down.
Balance sheet leverage is reduced from 21x to 15x.
In each case we are well ahead of original targets.
And a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.3% provides us some 3.5 times more capital per unit of equivalent risk than pre-crisis levels.
Reached a loan to deposit ratio - perhaps the clearest indicator of a banks funding prudence of 1:1 from a worst point of 154%.
Achieving this golden rule of banking is a powerful symbol of our recovery.
Produced 43 billion in pre-impairment profits from Core businesses.
These have been used to self fund the majority of 52 billion of legacy losses, loan impairments, restructuring charges, regulatory costs and other clean-up items.
12 ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 13 RBS GROUP 2012 2012 Results that front as the cultural clean-up came to the But whatever the outside conditions and 2012 saw landmark achievements in our fore which was always a companion to physical evolution of strategy we are clear about the restructuring plan.
It saw sustained customer changes required from pre-crisis times.
interrelated nature of our priorities.
A 61% share price rise during customers well, run only prudent risk and the year and 215% versus the January 2009 Expectations are changing fast and even past reward shareholders over the longer term.
low point underlined an improvement of ones have not been lived up to often enough.
investor belief in our future and that of the And the mistakes of some, grievous in cases, In this context we have set a new medium-term banking sector generally.
are tainting the efforts of the majority of bank target for our Markets business, which is an staff.
Most banks have past failings on a range important part of our service to corporate and The critical task of financial stabilisation of fronts.
For RBS the two worst in the past year institutional customers.
We aim to further passed milestones as RBS recommenced were LIBOR and our IT incident - quite different reduce its scale and scope, targeting capital preference share dividends, completed though they are.
consumption of 80 billion RWAs whilst the repayment of all crisis liquidity facilities sustaining the service provided to our from public authorities and exited the UK There is no single solution or dramatic action customer base.
Government 282 billion Asset Protection able to address this problem.
The best Scheme without making any claim under it.
companies in the world in any industry develop, Additionally, the Board has decided it is now The notable flotation of Direct Line Group almost as part of their DNA, the consistent the right time to begin work on a partial flotation represented the third of four EU state aid commitment to serve customers well and act of Citizens, our US banking business, targeted conditions and offset the disappointment accordingly.
The facts probably at around 2 years from now.
Citizens of Santander withdrawing from its agreed and the culture that drives them will be is a good business, serving around 5 million purchase of 315 branches from RBS.
established one piece at a time across many customers in the north east of the United many issues.
But we have no higher priority.
States where it is has a strong market position.
Underlining this progress, RBS 5 year bonds It has been substantially improved since 2009 traded at c. 1% credit spreads compared to Strategy and a local public listing will help to highlight its their wide levels earlier in the year of c. 4.5%.
The new RBS is a leading UK bank anchored in growing value.
This provides a positive The resultant own-credit accounting charge of retail and commercial business lines.
Our opportunity for Citizens and its 14,700 4.6 billion reflects this huge improvement in businesses are shaped around customer employees, as well as being a sensible move the perceived credit quality of RBS.
needs with substantial competitive strengths in for RBS as a whole.
Each unit is being Core Bank operating profits were 6.3 billion of retooled to provide improved and enduring People which Retail and Commercial businesses were performance and to meet new external The banking industry has come down to earth 5.3 billion excluding Ulster Bank and challenges.
We sustain strong capabilities hard.
While a more balanced global economy Markets 1.5 billion.
Non-Core losses declined internationally and in financial markets to has clear merits, the changes, pressures and again 32% to 2.9 billion and Non-Core support the needs of our customers and adjustments asked of our people remain high.
assets also fell ahead of target to 57 billion.
Our businesses are managed to And successful results are vital for the many We expect to slow the pace and cost of the add value in their own right but to provide a who rely on us.
The engagement, dedication remaining run-down once we hit the 40 billion stronger, more balanced and valuable whole and professionalism of RBS employees asset target for the end of 2013.
Exceptional through vital cross-business linkages.
remains outstanding and has much to be charges in relation to Payment Protection commended.
Insurance claims, LIBOR settlements and The physical weaknesses uncovered by the interest rate hedging product redress, together financial crisis - of leverage, risk concentration Concluding remarks with the own credit adjustment, resulted in a and business stretch - are close to being fixed.
RBS is coming through an immense and loss before tax of 5,165 million.
RBSs total assets have already been reduced wrenching restructuring.
Much has been by 906 billion from their peak in 2008 - more achieved and that should underpin our energy In a tough economic environment, most of the than any other entity worldwide has achieved.
Much is already good about banking industrys ongoing businesses are our Core business, how it serves customers, running hard to stand still, and so it was at The principles behind this strategy are sound how it performs.
Our ambition is to be a really RBS.
But the existing level of operating and working.
But it will continue to evolve.
A good bank for all our stakeholders.
Simple to performance is essential to fund our historic much slower economic recovery and tougher say.
Many will benefit from our clean-up with the moment coming ever closer set of regulatory and policy pressures need to achieving that goal.
when these costs are behind us and rewards be absorbed.
We have done this with more flow directly once more to shareholders.
emphasis on customer service, balance sheet I thank our staff and all our stakeholders for conservatism and while asking staff to do more their continued support in this effort.
Reputation with less during a period of significant change.
Our industry faces a tough challenge rebuilding Our business ambitions have been trimmed as Stephen Hester its reputation.
2012 was a wrenching year on a necessary reaction.
