CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Good performance in a continued challenging economic and market environment I am delighted to have been appointed as Western economies continue to struggle Chairman of RSA, a business which remains with slow economic growth and ongoing true to its purpose and committed to the austerity measures.
In these times, the need principles its founders established three for effective risk management by individuals centuries ago.
and companies is as great as ever, creating ongoing opportunities for insurers like RSA.
Today, as a global business operating in 32 countries around the world, we continue In the east and across many emerging to offer our customers the protection they markets there has been moderation of need to grow their businesses and lead economic growth forecasts.
the attractiveness of these areas remains because of low insurance penetration levels, We reported good growth and financial growing numbers of middle class families Our financial performance, performance in both our mature markets and continuing GDP growth.
and our higher-growth emerging markets.
our culture and the quality Quantitative easing programmes across the of our people means we are Financial highlights for 2012 included: globe continue to artificially depress bond well positioned for success yields creating downward pressure on r NWP growth of 5% at constant exchange: insurers investment income.
We are planning Martin Scicluna, Chairman r A combined operating ratio of 95.4%: for a period of prolonged low interest rates.
We will nevertheless continue to pursue our r An investment result of 431m: high quality, low risk investment strategy.
r Underlying return on equity of 10.1%.
These results have been achieved in Net written premium growth a tough trading environment.
Regulators remain very active but we 5% at constant exchange continue to require greater recognition from them that the insurance sector in general, and non-life insurance in particular, continues to be well managed.
Mature Finally, this years poor weather in the conversations about the best way to UK has again thrown into sharp relief the support the industry and the individuals unpredictable nature of the climate.
The and companies who rely on us are UK suffered its second-wettest year since essential to our long-term success.
records began, and there were also natural disasters such as the earthquakes in Italy.
There are legitimate concerns over corporate behaviour but these need I have been very impressed by the a measured response from regulators.
response of RSA employees on the front Meanwhile the continuing delays in line whenever and wherever our customers Europe in the implementation of have needed their support.
A determination Solvency II are a particular source to help people recover from trauma and of frustration to our business.
business interruptions runs through our operations.
All insurers must prove their Appropriate regulation and controls value by managing risk in good times but are important, but they come at a cost, above all by the nature and speed of their which ultimately falls on the consumer response in difficult times.
The effectiveness and we need it to be both appropriate of our claims process demonstrates our and proportionate.
commitment to the individuals, businesses and communities we protect.
8 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW This striving for excellence is one part of how we demonstrate our corporate and social responsibility.
While passion for this is in everything we do, we also undertake specific work to underline our commitment, much of which is detailed later in this report Notwithstanding the challenges that exist, we see significant opportunities for RSA.
We are already a long way into the process of reshaping our portfolio in the UK and remediation in Italy which we expect to deliver tangible results in 2013.
We have excellent market positions in Canada, Scandinavia and Ireland which will continue to perform in 2013.
In addition, we are faced with a wealth of opportunities to deliver growth in premiums and earnings from our Emerging Markets businesses.
Looking ahead, our financial performance, our culture and the quality of our people means we are well positioned for further success.
As stewards of the Groups 300-year history we need the right strategy to continue building on our firm foundations.
It is focused on achieving market-leading profitability in our mature markets, investing in those parts of the world which offer the best growth opportunities, leveraging our global specialty capabilities and showing sound judgement in capital allocation.
Im We continue to perform well in our confident that by delivering this strategy Global Engagement Survey which 93% Combined operating ratio % we are assured of continued financial of staff completed this year.
We are now 96.4 success and will be in a strong position in the 93rd percentile for large companies 95.4 94.9 94.5 94.6 when global growth returns.
The team responsible for delivering the I have been struck by the focus of the Group strategy has seen some changes senior leadership team, but also by the during the last year.
My predecessor as commitment of staff across the Group and chairman, John Napier, stepped down on their dedication in making a real difference 31 December 2012 after a decade in office.
I believe we should draw RSA was transformed during this time and confidence from our performance as well I would like to pay particular tribute to John as from our plans, ambition and talent.
for all he did to help achieve this.
The Underlying return on average equity % Company is significantly stronger because The decision to recommend rebasing our 16.4 of his efforts.
dividend means more of the capital we 13.4 generate can be employed to pursue 11.6 10.1 9.9 Simon Lee has served an excellent first growth opportunities in the medium term full year as Group Chief Executive, and in while still rewarding our shareholders.
It is this has been supported by the welcome in the best interests of both the Company arrival of Richard Houghton as Group and shareholders and will help us achieve Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, Hugh the targets we have set.
We expect to be Mitchell has joined the Board as a Nonrecommending a similar change in the Executive Director.
Following the last Annual General Meeting, RSA is well placed to continue its progress Dividend for the year p revisions were made to the Board committee and we look forward to the year ahead with 9.16 8.82 structure: Alastair Barbour became Chairman a sense of shared purpose.
8.25 7.71 7.31 of the Group Audit Committee: the Group Investment Committee was re-constituted to consist of Malcolm Le May, who continues as Chairman, Alastair Barbour, Simon Lee and Richard Houghton: and Hugh Mitchell became Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Since my appointment I have Martin Scicluna joined the Board Risk Committee, the Group Chairman Investment Committee and the Group Nomination Committee, which I also chair.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 9 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Another strong performance in 2012 as we position the Group for the next stage of its journey The 2012 results showed solid underlying Our financial position includes a regulatory organic growth, supplemented by wellcapital surplus of 1.2bn, which represents executed acquisitions.
We delivered coverage of 1.9 times.
Net asset value per healthy premium growth of 5% on a share was 101p.
constant exchange rate basis and our profits reflect good contributions from SUCCESSES AND OPPORTUNITIES Scandinavia and Canada, improving trends We have seen sustained growth in both in the UK & Western Europe and strong our Emerging Markets and Global Specialty profit from Emerging Markets as Lines businesses.
In addition to delivering operational leverage emerges.
strong organic growth, the year saw the successful acquisition of LUnion Canadienne We continue to successfully execute in Quebec, as well as acquisitions in our strategy to grow premiums, improve Argentina of El Comercio and Aseguradora Im looking forward to the underwriting profitability and focus our capital fide Crditos y Garantas.
on those parts of our business which offer opportunities ahead of us.
the highest growth and returns.
As we do so, We have also taken action to exit We will take the Company I have been encouraged by the response of or rationalise those markets where from strength to strength our people, and by the leadership shown by our performance has fallen short of my executive team.
During the year we closed Simon Lee, Group Chief Executive our business in the Czech Republic We have excellent market positions in and announced the sale of our business many parts of the world.
We are doing in the Dutch Caribbean.
exactly what is necessary to position ourselves for the next stage of our journey, The reshaping of our UK business and the as we build on our growth ambitions remediation of our Italian business are on overseas and our long-term success story track, but more remains to be done.
The in our mature markets.
plans we have in place are the right ones and we will be pushing hard to deliver on The Board has taken the decision to these and ensure all parts of the business recommend rebasing the dividend, reflecting make the contribution they should to our the expectation of a prolonged low bond overall performance.
yield environment and greater opportunities to develop and grow the business outside All regions have worked hard to put the the UK.
The proposal is to reduce dividend customer at the heart of everything we payments by 33% in 2013, therefore we do.
The Think!Customer programme in anticipate recommending a similar change Scandinavia has had noted success and to the interim dividend.
This is the correct we are ensuring relevant lessons are and prudent long-term decision for the learned across the organisation.
business and will enable the Group to realise its medium-term growth opportunities.
We continue to pay considerable attention to our corporate behaviour and our 2012 RESULTS wider responsibilities to the individuals, In 2012, net written premiums rose by businesses and communities we work with.
5% to 8.4bn, and the underwriting result Two examples are the projects we have was unchanged at 375m.
The combined undertaken to help draw attention to operating ratio was 95.4% 2011: 94.9%.
environmental degradation, asking RSA The investment result was down 11%.
staff worldwide to propose plans to help us reduce our carbon footprint, and taking This gave us an overall insurance result of the creators of the best ideas to see for 806m 2011: 860m, including significant themselves the impact deforestation is contributions from all our business regions having on the Brazilian rainforests.
And but, in particular, our mature markets in the UK, our Fit to Drive campaign is outside the UK as well as many of our pressing the government to do more to emerging markets.
ensure drivers are safe on the road through more regular eye tests.
The operating result was down 6% to 684m and profit before tax was 479m Looking ahead, I am confident about what 2011: 613m.
The proposed dividend for we can achieve and how we can ensure the the year is 7.31p.
10 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW OUR STRATEGY The strategy to deliver this is five-fold: FIRM OPERATIONAL GRIP AND I am confident in our ability to deliver PRUDENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT r Firm operational grip and prudent sustained outperformance in our local We will remain a pure-play general financial management: markets and generate continued profitable insurer with a well diversified portfolio growth.
We have built a diversified general r Achieve market leading profitability of businesses.
We will persist with our insurance business with strong technical in mature markets: rigorous focus on underwriting discipline.
capabilities, a track record of delivering We will keep our conservative approach r Invest in attractive growth markets: operational efficiencies and a justified to reinsurance and reserving.
We will stick reputation for the quality of our people.
r Leverage our global specialty capabilities: with our high quality, low risk investment We have a strong, experienced management strategy.
We will continue to deliver r Be disciplined about capital allocation.
team which provides continuity and a sustainable underwriting profit, the determination to build on our track ultimate measure of an insurers success record of success.
in delivering on its core purpose.
Our strategy DISCIPLINE IN CAPITAL ALLOCATION ACHIEVE MARKET INVEST IN LEVERAGE GLOBAL LEADING PROFITABILITY ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTY IN MATURE MARKETS GROWTH MARKETS CAPABILITIES FIRM OPERATIONAL GRIP & PRUDENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 11
