08 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Chief Executives review Carillions robust performance in challenging market conditions continues to reflect Our vision is to thesuccess of our strategy in creating a resilient UK and international business mix.
As well as enabling the Group to perform well in an economic downturn, our strategy has also positioned the Group to take advantage of opportunities for growth over the be the partner of medium term.
choice for delivering, Our strategy growing support services, Public Private Partnership PPP projects and our managing and international businesses using our business model to develop and market integrated solutions tailored servicing buildings to the needs of our customers, including project finance, design and construction, maintenance and lifetime support services and asset management and infrastructure.
maintaining a high-quality and selective construction capability, focused on higher-added value contracts for long-term customers, especially the delivery of integrated solutions for PPP projects and support services customers.
Our strategy continues to be supported by our commitments to being a recognised leader in Health & Safety and sustainability our core values strong risk management and operational excellence.
A strong and resilient business The consistent implementation of our strategy has created a leading integrated support services business, with a substantial portfolio of Public Private Partnership projects and extensive construction capabilities.
We use our world-class skills to design unique integrated solutions, tailored to the specific needs of our customers.
This, together with operational excellence and the resources necessary to deliver solutions for large, complex contracts, helpsto differentiate us from our competitors.
With operations across the UK and in Canada and the Middle East, we continue to have awell-balanced UK and international business mix, focused on markets offering good opportunities for growth, especially over the medium and long-term.
As a result of the prompt action we took in 2010, to begin rescaling our UK construction business in Richard Howson anticipation of planned Government cuts to investment in construction, we have aligned Group Chief Executive thisbusiness to the size of the UK market.
Find out more: Our people and values Page 12 i g n E s e c i v r e s y g r e n E t n e m e g a n a m s e i t i l i c a F t s o c 09 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our business model Creating sustainable value for our customers Generates sustainable returns for our stakeholders We use our wide range of skills and resources, both within and across our three core capabilities, to create integrated solutions tailored to meet the needs of our customers.
Revenue 2,359.7m 2011: 2,345.2m Support services Underlying operating profit Sector leading facilities management and energy services 122.7m Long-term contracts and good visibility Order book plus probable orders Resilient revenue platform Growth underpinned by public 13.1bn sector outsourcing Pipeline 11.5bn Revenue 287.7m 2011: 309.8m PPP projects Specialist skills that provide Underlying operating profit a competitive advantage Asset creation Valuable equity investments, 33.8m and whole-life recycled to generate cash and Order book plus probable orders management profit Secures long-term support 2.2bn services contracts Secures good quality Pipeline construction 1.6bn Revenue 1,755.4m Construction 2011: 2,396.2m UK, Middle East and Canada Underlying operating profit Strong engineering capabilities Selectively focused on quality 101.4m and delivery Rigorous risk management Order book plus probable orders Strong track record of good quality earnings 2.8bn Positive cash flow dynamics Pipeline 22.1bn e f i l - e l o h w & e c n a n fi t c e j o r Financial statements Governance Our performance About us P n o i t c u r t s n o C & g n i r e e n 10 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Chief Executives review continued The rescaling of UK construction has been achieved by being very selective in terms of the contracts for which we bid, in order to focus on higher added-value contracts for long-term customers.
Since 2009, our annual UK construction revenue has reduced by nearly 900 million to under 1 billion, which has significantly improved the risk profile and overall quality of our business mix.
In 2012, support services and investments in Public Private Partnership projects contributed 60per cent of revenue 2011: 53 per cent and 61 per cent of underlying operating profit 2011:59 per cent, with construction contributing 40 per cent of revenue 2011: 47 per cent and 39 per cent of underlying operating profit 2011: 41 per cent.
Acquisition of the Bouchier Group In December 2012, we acquired a 49 per cent interest in the Bouchier Group for a cash consideration of 23.8 million, which is being paid in phased instalments over the period toJanuary 2014.
The Bouchier Group is based in Alberta, Canada, and provides a range of support services, including road maintenance, infrastructure services and facilities management, primarily for customers in the oil sector.
In the 12 month period to 31 March 2012, the BouchierGroup had revenue of 46.3 million and pre-tax profit of 7.8 million.
The provision ofsupport services to companies in the power, oil and gas sectors across all the geographies inwhich we operate, offers significant new opportunities for growth.
The acquisition of the Bouchier Group provides an excellent platform from which to grow our activities in this market in Canada.
Health & Safety and sustainability Our commitment to being a recognised leader in Health & Safety and sustainability drives everything we do.
Providing a safe working environment for all our people and ensuring the safety of those who are affected by what we do, is our first priority.
We view this as an integral part of our wider responsibility to deliver sustainable solutions for our customers by using the opportunities we have to create positive impacts on the environment and on the communities in which we operate.
Our Health & Safety and sustainability strategies and programmes, together with our performance measured against a number of key performance indicators, arepublished in our Annual Sustainability Report, in April.
However, a summary of our performance can be found in this report on pages 11 and 36, respectively.
Our values How we work together within Carillion and with external partners, suppliers and customers, isdriven by our six core values of openness collaboration mutual dependency professional delivery sustainable profitable growth innovation.
Behaving in accordance with our values in everything we do, plays a vital role in building asustainable, profitable business, for which our people can be proud to work.
Strong risk management Carillion has rigorous operational and financial risk management processes to identify, mitigate and manage strategic Group-wide risks and risks specific to our individual business units and contracts, including economic, social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Groups principal risks, their potential impacts on our business and the processes and measures we have in place to manage and mitigate these risks, are explained in more detail on pages 22 and 23.
Operational excellence Operational excellence is also a key strength.
It begins with strong management teams andexcellent people who listen to customers to understand their needs and to work with customers to help shape the contracts they bring to market.
We then use our skills and resources to design value for money solutions to meet the specific needs of each customer.
Theability to use our sector leadership in sustainability to design sustainable solutions is also anincreasingly important capability, which helps to differentiate us from our competitors.
These capabilities, together with our annual cost management and efficiency programmes, leadto operational excellence, which enables us to win contracts and to win them on profitable terms.
With external expenditure of over 3 billion a year, best practice in supply chain management is vital to cost management and efficiency.
An excellent example of innovation insupply chain management is Carillion Direct Sourcing, a company we have established in China to source products directly from manufacturers.
This cuts out the middle men and, because Carillion Direct Sourcing supplies all our businesses worldwide, we buy in greater volumes at better prices.
11 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2012 Key Performance Indicators How we performed in relation to the eight Key Performance Indicators we set for 2012 We have maintained investment in leadership, personal development and employee To attract, develop and retain engagement programmes, designed to enable all our people to achieve their full potential.
excellent people This is underpinned by good communications to create a culture of openness and trust among all our people to enable them to contribute to the development of our business.
We measure our progress through annual employee surveys, notably The Great Debate, which involved 9,777 of our people in 2012.
The results for 2012 showed that the overall satisfaction of our people reduced slightly with the percentage saying that they are proud to work for Carillion reducing from 75 per cent to 71 per cent, which reflected the impact of rescaling parts of our business to align them with smaller markets.
Our objective of reducing reportable accidents to zero remains our top priority.
We Be a recognised leader in Health continue to invest in programmes to engage, educate and train all our people, backed & Safety and sustainability by strong, visible leadership, including Directors Safety Tours and Safety Action Groups, together with safety audits.
Through our hazard reporting programme Dont walk By, everyone in Carillion is encouraged to report for immediate action anything they consider to be unsafe.
In 2012, our Accident Frequency Rate AFR increased slightly to0.076 reportable accidents per 100,000 employee hours worked 2011: 0.074, with more than four out of five projects achieving zero reportable accidents.
An AFR of 0.076 continues to be a sector-leading performance.
Going forward, we will change this Key Performance Indicator to the Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR, which is the internationally accepted measure of performance.
We deeply regret that one fatal accident occurred on a Carillion work site in 2012, when an employee was fatally injured when he was struck by a train.
This personal tragedy has been deeply felt by all his colleagues in Carillion and our thoughts are with his family andfriends.
During 2012, one prosecution of a Carillion company was completed by the Health & Safety Executive.
This concerned an accident in 2008 that occurred at Meridian Quay, Swansea, in which a scaffolder, working for a subcontractor, was fatally injured when he fell while dismantling scaffolding.
Carillion continues to be a recognised leader in sustainability in our sector, a key measure of which is our ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
In2011, we maintained our Platinum ranking in this Index with a score of 97 per cent and our objective is to at least match our 2011 ranking when the 2012 index is published in April 2013.
We report in more detail on our sustainability performance in the sustainability section of this report on page 35 and in our Annual Sustainability Report, which will be published in April 2013.
We measure our performance by using an independent customer perception survey.
The Continuously improve customer results of the 2012 survey showed that Carillion achieved an overall rating that exceeded satisfaction a commercially acceptable level, with market-leading ratings for our civil engineering and building businesses.
Despite challenging market conditions, revenue and underlying operating profit in support Deliver growth in support services services both moved ahead slightly in 2012, with a one per cent increase in revenue and a two per cent increase in underlying operating profit, compared with 2011.
Annual revenues in Canada and in the Middle East reduced in 2012, the reasons for which Grow annual revenues in Canada and are explained on pages 28 and 29.
But we believe the medium term outlook in both the Middle East by doubling each of Canada and the Middle East remains positive and our targets of doubling revenues from them to around 1 billion by 2015 2010 in both cases to around 1 billion by 2015, remains unchanged.
The rescaling of our UK construction business to ensure it remains aligned with the size of Continue to rescale our UK the UK market is largely complete.
We have benefited significantly from the prompt action construction capability consistent we took in 2010 to begin rescaling this business, which is clearly evident in our results, on with our objective of reducing annual which we comment in more detail on page 29. revenue to around 1.2 billion Driving rigorous annual cost management and efficiency programmes throughout our business Continue reducing costs and has continued to provide customers with attractive and competitive offerings, asevidenced by improving efficiency to support our success in securing new and probable orders worth 5.2 billion in 2012, and by the margins and earnings growth improvement in our total operating margin from 4.9 per cent in 2011 to5.7 per cent in 2012.
After adjusting for the planned working capital outflow due to rescaling our UK Generate cash-backed profit after construction activities and some short-term working capital phasing between 2011 and adjusting for the strategic rescaling 2012, underlying cash flow from operations was equal to 98 per cent of underlying profit of our UK construction activities fromoperations.
Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 12 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Chief Our people and values drive the Groups performance Executives review continued Innovation Collaboration Openness Carillion has leading positions in the Ontario and Alberta highways maintenance market, providing year-round services under long-term contracts.
13 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Mutual Sustainable, Professional dependency profitable growth delivery Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 14 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Support services Group Chief Executives review continued We are one of the UKs largest support services companies providing all the services needed to manage, maintain and operate buildings and infrastructure, notably for large property estates and for transport and utility services networks.
Having the ability to combine our extensive support services capabilities to provide customers with fully integrated, nationwide solutions is a key strength that helps to differentiate Carillion from our competitors.
It is also fundamental to our success in delivering Public Private Partnership PPP projects.
The long-term support services contracts we have some of themfor more than 30 years provide good visibility of future revenues and make a major contribution to the resilience of ourbusiness mix.
Property We provide an extensive range of support services for property, notably integrated facilities management solutions for public and private sector customers with large, complex property estates.
We have strong positions in a number of market sectors, particularly for customers inthe financial services, commercial, utilities, media and telecommunications sectors.
In the UKpublic sector, we are a major supplier of integrated facilities management services to centraland local government, notably in the defence, health, education and general office accommodation sectors.
In Canada, we have a growing business, driven by our success inwinning PPP projects, especially in the health sector, for which we provide facilities management services.
Infrastructure We have long-term asset management and maintenance contracts for roads, railways andpublic utility services networks.
In the UK, we provide integrated management and maintenance services for motorways and trunk roads for the Highways Agency, and also forlocal road networks on behalf of Local Highway Authorities.
In Canada, we have leading positions in the Ontario and Alberta road maintenance markets.
In the rail sector, our maincustomers are Network Rail and Transport for London.
We also provide a wide range of asset management and maintenance services for utilitynetworks.
We have in-house engineering and architectural design and project management capabilities, which play an important role in supporting the delivery of integrated solutions for buildings andinfrastructure, notably for PPP projects.
Energy services The acquisition of Carillion Energy Services CES in April 2011, extended oursupport services offering to include energy efficiency services.
Rising energy costs and Government legislation toreduce carbon emissions have made energy services an increasingly important part of the integrated support services solutions we provide.
The acquisition of CES has also taken the Group into new markets for energy services, namely for private housing and for Local Authority and Social Landlord housing.
Power, oil and gas In 2012, we used our facilities and asset management capabilities to take advantage of new market opportunities, notably in the power, oil and gas sectors in the UK and the Middle East.
For example, we were appointed as the preferred bidder for our largest ever support services contract in the Middle East, a three-year, 70 million contract for Petroleum Development Find out more: Oman.
The acquisition in December 2012 of a 49 per cent interest in the Bouchier Group, Operating and financial review whichprovides support services to customers in the oil sector in Canada, also provides an Page 26 excellent platform to grow our activities in this market.
Right In 2012, we continued to build on the leadingpositions we hold in the highways maintenance markets in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, winning new contracts and contract renewals, which together are worth in excess of 500 million over 12 years.
Far right Carillion is a leading supplier of support services to the UK Defence Infrastructure Organisation, for whom we provide a wide range of property and facilities management services, including building fabric maintenance, catering, laundry, cleaning and security, for military establishments and accommodation across the UK.
15 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Su pport services Manage Maintain Find out more: Operate www.
com our-capabilities F Fina inan ncia ciall s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Governance Our performance About us 16 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Public Private Partnerships projects Finance Design Build Find out more: www.
com our-capabilities Maintain 17 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Public Private Partnership projects Group Chief Executives review continued We are a leader in Public Private Partnership PPP projects, both in the UK and in Canada.
PPPprojects use private sector finance to deliver a wide range of asset-based services for centraland local government.
Our success is based on our ability to combine our expertise in private finance with our supportservices and construction capabilities to win and deliver fully integrated solutions forPPP projects, in which we invest equity and for which we secure construction contracts andlong-term support services contracts.
Once the construction phase is complete and projects have moved successfully into the operational phase, we have the option of selling our equity investments and reinvesting theproceeds in new projects.
Health In the UK, we are making good progress with our fifteenth PPP healthcare facility, the new Southmead Hospital in Bristol.
We secured support services contracts for 12 of these facilities, making Carillion a leading supplier of non-clinical services to the National Heath Service.
Defence Carillion has three major PPP defence projects for the UK Ministry of Defence.
The largest ofthese is Allenby Connaught, a 35-year concession contract that commenced in 2006 to rebuild Army accommodation across the South of England and to provide support services forthe estate over the life of the concession.
Secure accommodation In the UK, we have delivered four prisons and secure training centres and sold our equityinvestments in all of these projects.
Carillion also built the landmark Government Communications Headquarters at Cheltenham, one of the largest, technically complex andsecure accommodation PPP projects to be delivered in the UK to date.
Education We have built a strong track record in the education sector, where we have delivered, or areinthe process of delivering, around 160 new schools and academies.
Some 50 of these schools and academies have been funded by private finance and include the provision of support services.
Roads We have delivered a total of six PPP road projects, two of which included long-term management and maintenance services that remain in our support services portfolio.
Canada Canada also uses private finance to deliver public buildings and infrastructure with a similar procurement model to that used in the UK.
Carillion is a leader in this market, especially in thehealth sector, having delivered two of the first privately financed hospitals in Canada theRoyal Ottawa and the new William Osler Hospital in Brampton, Ontario, for which we alsohave long-term facilities management contracts.
We have since delivered a further four major projects in Ontario and have another under construction.
Going forward we expect to bid for new projects in both Ontario and British Columbia.
Find out more: Operating and financial review Page 27 Left During 2012, Carillion completed the Royal Victoria Hospital expansion project in Ontario, Canada.
This 160 million project included 101 new in-patient beds, two additional patient care units with 64 beds, a coronary care unit, operating theatres and expanded emergency, diagnostic imaging and laboratory facilities.
Right Carillion has recently completed the 157million, Phase 1B of the redevelopment of the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health in Toronto, Canada.
This project is part of a programme to transform an institutional campus into an urban village style hospital.
com our-capabilities Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 18 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Middle East construction services Group Chief Executives review continued We have around 40 years experience in the Middle East, where we have delivered some of theregions most prestigious buildings and infrastructure projects.
In the Middle East, we have built strong relationships with a small number of high-quality, financially robust customers with long-term investment programmes, for whom quality and value for money are paramount.
This strategy has enabled us to deliver a consistently strong financial performance in the region.
Abu Dhabi Since extending the operations of Al Futtaim Carillion to Abu Dhabi in 2008, our business therehas grown substantially and in 2012 it contributed 23 per cent of our total Middle East construction services revenue.
Since completing our first project in Abu Dhabi in 2009, the prestigious 500-bedroom Yas Hotel that forms the centrepiece of Abu Dhabis Formula 1 GrandPrix circuit, we have won a series of further major projects.
These include Stage 3 of theUAE University, Al Muneera, a major mixed use development for ALDAR and Al Bahar Towers, a new headquarters for the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.
Currently we are buildingNewYork University, for Mubadala, on which we continue to make good progress.
Oman Our business in Oman, Carillion Alawi, has a long history of delivering high-profile projects toexacting standards, including the Guest Palace Qasr Al Alam, the Grand Mosque, the Royal Opera House and the Majlis, a newparliament building.
Current projects include the National Museum, an extension to Muscat Airport, which involves the construction of a new control tower and ancillary facilities and a major mixed-use development for the Public Authority for Social Insurance.
In 2012, Carillion Alawicontinued to grow and contributed some 37 per cent of our total construction servicesrevenue in the Middle East.
Dubai In Dubai, Al Futtaim Carillion has an outstanding track record for delivering high-quality projects, including Dubai Festival City, Motor City, infrastructure for the Downtown Dubai development and infrastructure for Dubai Aluminium.
Activity levels in Dubai fell significantly asa result of the global economic downturn, but have recently begun to recover slowly, withDubai contributing some 16 per cent of our Middle East construction revenue in 2012.
AlFuttaim Carillions largest current project in Dubai is the 112 million AlJalilaChildrens Speciality Hospital.
Egypt Al Futtaim Carillion extended its operations to Egypt in 2008 specifically to build the 2 billion Cairo Festival City development for our Joint Venture partner, Al Futtaim.
In 2012, this project contributed 15 per cent of our Middle East construction services revenue as work on the Cairo Festival City development increased.
Qatar In 2011, we extended our operations into Qatar with a 395 million contract for the Heart ofDoha Development for Msheireb Properties.
This contract, which was won in joint venture with Qatar Building Company, will generate some 316 million of revenue for Carillion.
Qatarhas major investment programmes in a number of sectors where Carillion has strong capabilities, including heritage, health, education and infrastructure, which offer substantial prospects for growth.
Saudi Arabia Find out more: In line with our strategy of geographical diversification, we have recently agreed a letter of Operating and financial review intent to deliver our first major contract in Saudi Arabia.
Page 28 Right In 2012, Al Futtaim Carillion completed the 550 million Al Muneera mixed-use development in Abu Dhabi for ALDAR.
This development, included apartment buildings, town houses, luxury villas and office accommodation, together with two road bridges joining the development to the mainland and other associated infrastructure works.
Far right Carillion Alawi has recently completed the Majlis, a magnificent new Parliament building in Muscat, Oman.
The 275 million contract included the construction of the new Parliament building, which houses the Majlis Oman, Majlis Ashura and Majlis Addowla, together with VIP areas, an information centre, library, offices and other support facilities.
19 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Middle East c onstruction services Build Find out more: sustainably www.
com our-capabilities Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Construction services excluding the Middle East Design Build Find out more: sustainably www.
com our-capabilities 21 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Construction services Group Chief excluding the Middle East Executives review continued We have a strong and selective construction capability in the UK and in Canada, focused on large, higher-added value contracts for long-term customers.
Having a strong construction capability, together with our capabilities in private finance, design, support services and sustainability, enables us to offer fully integrated solutions for buildings and infrastructure.
This gives us a competitive advantage in optimising the whole-life cost of providing, maintaining and operating assets such as schools, hospitals, military accommodation, prisons, roads and railways an essential requirement for Public Private Partnership PPP projects.
In the UK, we began rescaling our construction business in 2010, through being even more selective in respect of the contracts for which we bid, to ensure this business remains aligned tothe size of the UK market, having correctly anticipated that this market would shrink significantly.
Our strategy is to base ourcapabilities around delivering integrated solutions forPPP projects and support services customers and high-quality added-value contracts forlong-term customers to support margins and create a best-in-class business.
Our UK construction revenue has reduced from 1.8 billion in 2009 to around 0.9billion in 2012, butwith strong margins and improved profitability.
In Canada, our ability to deliver integrated solutions has helped us to establish a leading position in delivering public sector buildings and infrastructure using a private finance model AFP, which is similar to the UKs PPP procurement model.
We expect the new 10-year AFP investment programme to be a key driver of growth over the medium term, supporting ourobjective of doubling our revenue in Canada to around 1 billion per annum.
UK A significant proportion of our UK construction revenue already comes from PPP projects.
Forexample, we have two major PPP projects for the Ministry of Defence Allenby Connaught, which involves building and refurbishing Army accommodation across the South of England, and the Royal School of Military Engineering.
We also continue to be a leading supplier to theschools building programme, which includes some PPP projects, and to the health sector, inwhich our largest project is the new Southmead Hospital in Bristol.
We also provide construction services for other long-term customers where quality, delivery and our sector-leading sustainability credentials differentiate our offering.
Our largest sectors of the UK infrastructure market are roads and railways, in which we had significant success during 2012.
Our construction capabilities in these sectors are also key to oursuccess in winning and delivering PPP projects, long-term maintenance contracts for roads and railways and contracts for the Highways Agencys managed motorways programme.
Canada In Canada, where our business was established some 50 years ago, we have strong construction capabilities, both for buildings and infrastructure.
We delivered two of the first privately financed hospitals to be built in Canada, both of which are fully operational, and for which Carillion has long-term support services contracts.
We have since delivered four more hospital projects and early in 2013 we completed a new Forensic Services and Coroners Complex in Toronto.
Carillion is also delivering other high-profile construction projects, including the Find out more: refurbishment and extension of Torontos Union Station.
Operating and financial review Page 29 Left A Carillion Joint Venture delivered the 209million contract to upgrade the A1 between Dishforth and Leeming in Yorkshire, from a dual two-lane trunk road to a dual three-lane motorway.
The project included extensive environmental protection measures, including low-noise surfacing and noise barriers, together with protection for the natural habitats of deer, badgers, great crested newts, otters and migratory birds.
Right The Nottingham Academy, which was completed in 2012, is one of some 160 schoolsand academies that have been, orarein the process of being delivered, byCarillion in England.
com our-capabilities Financial statements Governance Our performance About us 22 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group Chief Executives review continued Well positioned for the future New order intake remained strong in 2012, despite difficult market conditions, with 5.2 billion of new and probable orders secured during the year.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had orders and probable orders worth 18.1 billion 31 December 2011: 19.1 billion.
Of this Order book plus probable orders total, orders, which are defined as signed contracts, amounted to 16.6 billion.
Probable orders, which are contracts for which we have been selected as the preferred bidder and have agreater than 90 per cent probability of being signed, amounted to 1.5 billion.
The reduction 18.1bn in the value of orders and probable orders compared with December 2011, was due to the 2011: 19.1bn saleof equity investments in Public Private Partnership projects and the rescaling of our UK 1 construction business.
The Group has revenue visibility for 2013 of 75 per cent, based on expected revenue in 2013 and secure and probable orders.
1 4 2 3 The value of our pipeline of contract opportunities at the year end remained very strong at 35.2 billion 2011: 33.1 billion.
This pipeline includes specific contracts that have passed our initial selectivity criteria and have either come to market, or are expected to come to market.
Although we expect our markets to remain challenging in 2013, given the strength of our orderbook and the size of our pipeline of contract opportunities, our targets for growth remain unchanged, namely to deliver annual revenue growth in support services, with solid single digit growth in 2013 1.
Construction services to win an average of one in three of the Public Private Partnership projects for which we 2012: 2.0bn 2011: 2.4bn bid, in which we can invest equity that generates valuable returns and for which we can secure long-term support services contracts and good quality construction contracts 2.
Middle East construction services to double our revenue in the Middle East to around 1 billion in the five-year period to 2012: 0.8bn 2011: 1.0bn 2015, with double digit growth in 2013 to grow revenue in construction services excluding the Middle East, with single digit 3.
Support services growth in 2013 2012: 13.1bn 2011: 12.9bn to double our revenue in Canada to around 1 billion in the five-year period to 2015 to support our targets for growth in both our support services and construction services 4.
Public Private Partnership projects excluding the Middle East segments.
2012: 2.2bn 2011: 2.8bn Importantly, we continue to have a strong balance sheet to support the delivery of our strategyand targets for growth.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had net borrowing of 155.8million and committed bank facilities and private placement funding of over 1 billion.
Key Performance Indicators for 2013 Pipeline of contract opportunities To support our strategy and the delivery of our targets for growth, we have set Key 35.2bn Performance Indicators for 2013 in respect of the following objectives 2011: 33.1bn To be an employer of choice that attracts, develops and retains excellent people To be a recognised leader in Health & Safety and Sustainability To improve customer satisfaction 1 4 To reduce costs and improve efficiency to support margins To deliver cash-backed profit after adjusting for the effect on working capital of having largely completed the planned rescaling our UK construction activities in 2012.
Operational risk management 2 3 Carillion has rigorous operational risk management policies and processes to identify, mitigate and manage strategic Group-wide risks and risks specific to our individual business units and contracts, including economic, social, environmental and ethical risks.
Carillion has a Group Head of Risk who is responsible for 1.
Construction services 2012: 10.7bn 2011: 8.4bn advising on strategic risks affecting the Group conducting independent risk appraisals of all projects prior to them being submitted 2.
Middle East construction services totheMajor Projects Committee, which is a Committee of the Board with delegated 2012: 11.4bn 2011: 11.4bn authority to sanction major commitments and transactions, including capital expenditure, 3.
Support services major contracts and business acquisitions and disposals, up to specified levels of risk, 2012: 11.5bn 2011: 12.3bn beyondwhich they are referred to the Board overseeing risk training across the Group.
Public Private Partnership projects 2012: 1.6bn 2011: 1.0bn Our risk management processes are applied to every aspect of our operations, from choosing the geographies in which we operate, our market sectors and the contracts for which we bid, to the selection of our customers, partners and suppliers.
We also apply them to every stage ofa contract, from its inception to completion, in order to deliver value-for-money services for our customers and the cash-backed profit we expect.
Richard Howson Group Chief Executive 1 Based on expected revenue and secure and probable orders, which exclude variable work and re-bids.
27 February 2013 23 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operational risk management Carillion plc Board Major Projects Committee Performance Review Meetings Strategic Group-Wide Risks Group Risk Forum Business Unit Risk Managers Contract Risk Managers Tenders for New Contracts Contract Performance Monitoring The Groups principal risks Potential impact Mitigation Continuing to win contracts Failure to achieve targets for revenue Continually analysing our markets to ensure inour existing and new target growth, cash-backed profits and we understand the opportunities they offer markets and geographies, earnings Listening to our customers to ensure we consistent with our strategy understand their needs forgrowth and on satisfactory Continually seeking to differentiate terms and conditions our offering to ensure it meets customers needs Implementing annual efficiency and cost reduction programmes to remain competitive Behaving in accordance with our values to support our objective of being the partner ofchoice for our customers Managing our pension schemes An increase in liabilities that would The Groups main defined benefit pension to ensure thatscheme liabilities reduce Carillions net assets and schemes have been closed to future accrual are within a range appropriate adversely affect the markets valuation Regularly reviewing of our investment policies to our capital base of Carillion and its share price to ensure that employee and company contributions, together with scheme benefits, remain appropriate Managing major contracts to Failure to achieve the margins, profits Applying well-defined selectivity criteria to ensure that they are delivered and the cash flows we expect from ensure we take on contracts only where we on time, to budget and to the contracts, with consequent damage understand and can manage the risks involved required standards to our brand reputation Applying our rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects Selecting high-quality joint Failure to deliver contracts on time and Applying selectivity criteria to ensure we choose venture and supply chain to budget, with consequent damage to partners and suppliers that satisfy our standards partners our brand reputation for quality, reliability and financial stability Attracting, developing and Failure to deliver high-quality services Developing and implementing leadership, retaining excellent people by to our customers, with consequent personal development and employee being an employer of choice effects on profits, brand reputation engagement programmes that encourage and our ability to win new contracts and support all our people to achieve their and achieve our targets for growth full potential Maintaining high standards Adverse effects on employee morale Applying rigorous risk management processes of performance in respect of leading to increases in employee supported by robust business continuity plans security, Health & Safety and dissatisfaction and employee An ongoing commitment to Target Zero, our other statutory requirements turnover rates, together with the programme to eliminate reportable accidents, loss of customer, supplier and including implementing management systems partner confidence and consequent that conform to Occupational Health & Safety damage to our brand reputation Assessment System 18001 Implementing thorough, mandatory staff training programmes to support the delivery ofour objectives and to ensure compliance withour statutory obligations and policies in respect of ethics and values Financial statements Governance Our performance About us
