Chief Executives Statement 012 will be remembered for many different reasons, 2from the Diamond Jubilee to the Olympics and Paralympics and other sporting achievements, not to mention the amount of rain that fell.
From an investment perspective, low growth, low interest rates and modest, but persistent inflation once again dominated the major economies of the Eurozone and North America, and this pattern may well be repeated in 2013.
Growth in the emerging and developing economies proved stronger, another trend that looks likely to continue in the coming year.
It was against this backdrop that I am pleased to report another year of strong growth further demonstrating the Groups continued resilience despite the market conditions.
We have continued to attract new investments, grow our funds under management, increase the size of the David Bellamy Partnership and their productivity, which in turn is driving Chief Executive strong growth in profits and dividends to shareholders.
New Business and Funds Under Management The first six months of the year saw modest growth in new business whilst the second half of the year saw a significant pick up in activity, as investor confidence returned culminating in new business growth in the final quarter, on an annual premium equivalent basis APE of 46%, resulting in the full year total APE being up 16%.
New single investment and pension business at 5.88 billion was 13% higher than 2011 and it is particularly pleasing to note that we continue to maintain strong retention of existing client funds which, combined with the new investments, resulted in a net inflow of 3.35 billion.
Total funds under management at 31 December 2012, at 34.8 billion, were 22% higher than the start of the year.
4 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Performance Clients The Chief Financial Officers Report and Financial Review Access to some of the best fund managers in the world, which can be found on pages 12 to 29, provides a delivering above average investment returns, together with comprehensive presentation of the financial results and trusted advice and reliable service are the essential elements detail of the Groups performance for the year.
of what we have to offer clients.
On an IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards We measure our performance in these areas by tracking the basis, profit before shareholder tax increased to 134.6 retention rates of our funds under management and the million 2011: 109.7 million.
amount of new investments and referrals we receive from existing clients.
In addition, we commission regular surveys European Embedded Value EEV operating profits were of our clients and seek feedback from them via questionnaires 365.9 million 2011: 371.5 million reflecting good growth sent with our annual wealth accounts.
in new business and the performance of our funds under management, but without the benefit of the 38.1 million All of these initiatives provide us with a rich source of exceptionally strong experience variances that we saw in 2011. regular feedback and tell us that our proposition is valued by our clients.
Dividend We have said before that a growing cash result is a trend that Investment Management is expected to continue with the increasing maturity of One of the core elements of our business strategy is the funds under management.
distinctive way that we manage our clients wealth.
Shareholders have seen a 33% dividend rise in each of the Despite the difficult economic environment, stock markets last two years and, given our on going confidence in the generally produced a solid year of growth, albeit after a profile of the future cash emergence, we announced at the short correction in the summer as concerns over a Greek time of our 2011 full year results that shareholders could exit from the Eurozone resurfaced and confidence in Spains expect a similarly significant increase in the 2012 dividend.
ability to refinance its banking system wavered.
Over the year as a whole, the FTSE 100 index returned around 6% in I am therefore pleased to confirm the cash result was up capital growth, 10% with dividends reinvested.
Slightly 37% to 91.7 million and, in line with this statement, we higher growth was achieved in the wider All Share index are pleased to confirm the final dividend of 6.39 pence per and in some overseas equity markets.
Consequently the full year dividend is 10.64p also up 33% on 2011.
Similarly, other asset classes gained ground in 2012 with corporate bonds proving to be one of the best performing Furthermore, given our on going confidence in the profile of asset classes.
By contrast, the UK commercial property the cash emergence going forward, shareholders can expect a market remained relatively flat with income yields being similarly significant increase in the 2013 dividend.
Beyond that partially offset by a weakening in capital values.
we fully intend to maintain our progressive dividend policy in line with the underlying performance of the business.
Net Inflow of Funds The final dividend for 2012, subject to approval of 3.35bn shareholders at our AGM, will be paid on 24 May to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Funds Under Management 12April and as with last year, a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP continues to be available for shareholders.
34.8bn Cash Result 37% Full Year Dividend 33% Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Chief Executives Statement continued UK interest rates remain at historic lows and this continuing Partners and Employees benign interest rate environment has a beneficial effect on The strength and continued growth of the business is due in UK wealth management as clients seek to explore no small part to the hard work and dedication of our opportunities for higher returns than available in bank Partners, their staff and all of our employees and deposit funds.
Against this background, the vagaries and unpredictability On behalf of the Board and shareholders I thank everyone of markets serve as a constant reminder to clients of the connected with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to need for advice and the importance of a broad diversification these results and for their continued enthusiasm, dedication across asset classes, geographies and investment and commitment.
In this respect, the investment portfolios, launched last year, have proven to be a useful The St. Jamess Place Foundation starting point for discussions between our Partners and The St. Jamess Place Foundation has always been an their clients about how they can create the right strategy important part of the Groups culture and we were delighted to mitigate risk and achieve financial security.
to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Foundation in 2012 by raising the record sum of 5 million to help the good Our clients now have access to over 30 high quality causes that the Foundation supports.
This was very much a investment managers, chosen from across the world, to collective effort by the whole SJP community, including manage their funds and we are confident that the strength employees, Partners, suppliers and others connected to SJP.
and breadth of our fund offering provides an excellent I would like to thank all of you for helping to raise such an platform upon which to continue to grow our funds under impressive sum, which is particularly important in a year management in the coming years.
when surveys indicate that giving to charities has decreased by around 20% compared to 2011.
Further details of our The St. Jamess Place Partnership CSR activities are set out on pages 34 to 43.
We believe that we are uniquely positioned in the UK wealth management market because we have chosen to promote our Outlook services exclusively through our dedicated adviser team, the Whilst we recognise that there is still economic St Jamess Place Partnership.
Increasing the number of uncertainty, everything we understand about our Partners and providing them with the tools and support to marketplace tells us that there has never been a greater need deliver high quality outcomes for clients are key drivers to our for high quality advice delivered by a trusted adviser, backed achieving our long-term business growth objectives.
The scale and strength of the Companys adviser led approach to wealth management, It is therefore very pleasing to report continued growth in twinned with a proven investment management proposition, the size of the Partnership this year, up 8% to 1,788 and the leaves St. Jamess Place both uniquely and well positioned to number of diploma qualified advisers and support staff now benefit from the long-term demographic and market exceeds 2,000.
All members of the Partnership achieved the opportunities in wealth management.
higher professional qualification standards required by the Financial Services Authority under the Retail Distribution We have good momentum across all aspects of the business Review which came into effect on 31 December 2012. and are therefore confident in our ability to continue our growth in line with our medium term objectives in 2013 Whilst we are confident that we can continue to attract andbeyond.
established high quality advisers, February 2012 saw the re-launch of our Academy programme.
We are extremely pleased with the quality of the individuals that we have been able to attract so far.
We have just completed the initial training of our third cohort, bringing the total within the programme to 54.
In addition we ran a parallel programme for the second generation of existing Partners, the sons and David Bellamy daughters of existing Partners who aspire to join the Chief Executive business in due course.
We anticipate that some of the 27 February 2013 Academy Partners will begin to graduate into the Partnership during the latter part of this year.
6 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
