8 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives review Well positioned in exciting markets 2012 was a milestone year for the Group: our tenth year of unbroken growth in income, pro ts and dividends: the tenth year since we created Wholesale Banking: and the tenth year since we launched our values.
Standard Chartered has changed enormously over the past decade.
It is easy to underestimate how much, since it has happened primarily through continuous rapid evolution through organic growth, rather than big steps such as major acquisitions.
Over the past 10 years, the Groups income has grown by a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 15 per cent, and pre-tax pro t by 18 per cent.
During this time, we have seen rapid growth across many of our markets.
Take our business in Nigeria: in 2003, it produced $21 million of income: this year it produced $258 million, a twelve-fold increase.
In mainland China, we produced $44 million of income in 2003, with 14 branches and 409 employees.
In 2012, we generated $1 billion of income in mainland China, plus over $700 million in network income or income from clients based in a market, but booked elsewherei n our network, with over 8,500 employees and 100 branches across 25 cities.
In Indonesia our income has grown almost seven-fold to $813 million over the same period.
It is not just a story of small markets getting bigger.
In 2003, Peter Sands Hong Kong generated 29 per cent of the Groups income, at $1.4 billion.
Now, while Hong Kongs income has more than Group Chief Executive doubled to $3.4 billion, it accounts for just 18 per cent of income, illustrating not only the pace of our growth, but also its diversity.
There continues to be a clear gap between Our resilient business model the growth in our markets and growth in the Our history shapes the way we think about the future: we keep West.
We are seeing the emergence of vast an emphasis on organic growth, in big markets as well as small: numbers of middle class consumers: 28 per invest with a long-term perspective and build diverse income cent of the worlds middle class lived in Asia streams.
Of course, it gets harder to deliver the same rates of growth as we get bigger.
Every year brings new challenges, in2009: by 2030 it will be 66 per cent.
The most obvious challenge was the resolution of the issues related to our past compliance with US sanctions.
The $667 million settlements dented our pro t growth and damaged our reputation.
We accept and acknowledge responsibility for the violations speci ed in the US settlement agreements and arecommitted to meeting the ongoing obligations arising from these agreements.
We also suffered signi cant headwinds from a multitude of regulatory changes, most notably income drag from the liquid asset buffer and the increase in the UK bank levy.
Group overview 9 The macroeconomic environment normally a tailwind for us, Our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East are not immune.
given the markets we are in also proved quite challenging Slower growth or shocks in the West will undoubtedly affect in 2012.
Economic growth slowed in most of our markets, them, but there continues to be a clear gap between the growth re ecting the global slowdown.
Local currencies fell against the in our markets and growth in the West.
GDP growth in the US is US dollar, and some of our markets were particularly challenged.
forecast at 2.3 per cent for 2013, and the eurozone 0.2 per India was one example: the countrys GDP slowed sharply, cent, contrasting with China at 8.3 per cent, Nigeria at 6.6 per from an average of 7.9 per cent over the previous five years to cent and Indonesia at 6.5 per cent.
Even India, for all its 5.2 per cent, and the rupee fell 15 per cent yearonyear.
challenges, will grow at multiples of the West.
Business momentum plummeted as political deadlock and The underlying drivers of growth in the emerging world governance scandals rocked con dence.
Consequently, our industrialisation, urbanisation, demographics remain India business slowed, with income falling 12 per cent, while we extraordinarily powerful.
We have seen strong growth in saw some increase in impairments, resulting in pro ts falling by intra-regional trade and investment across our markets.
For example, from 2000 until 2011, Africas trade with India Yet, network income grew more than 30 per cent as a result of increased by a CAGR of 25 per cent, while China-MENA trade us supporting more of Indias leading companies as they invest rose from a value of $18 billion to over $240 billion.
We are also and grow overseas.
So overall income from our Indian franchise seeing the emergence of vast numbers of middle class was more resilient.
Moreover, the mood in India has changed consumers, and the scale is staggering: 28 per cent of the noticeably since last summer.
The economic reform agenda worlds middle class lived in Asia in 2009: by 2030 it will be appears to be back on track, and business and investor activity 66 per cent.
We have a great business in India, The rapid internationalisation of the renminbi RMB is a symbol and are con dent that this will be a huge part of our future of the shift in global economic power.
In 2012 we estimate that growth story.
12.6 per cent of Chinas trade was settled in RMB, up from Given the headwinds we faced in 2012, it is no surprise that 5.1per cent in 2010.
Our recently launched Renminbi both income and pro t growth for the Group as a whole were Globalisation Index, which measures the size of this market somewhat slower.
But we have showed once again that we across four asset classes, shows more than a seven-fold can be disciplined on costs, without compromising investment, increase over the same period.
and the underlying momentum of the Groups businesses remains robust.
Global macroeconomic outlook Global sentiment has improved.
There is undoubtedly more momentum in markets and more con dence in businesses.
However, the underlying problems of the weaker eurozone countries have not gone away.
The US scal cliff has been moved, not scaled.
Unemployment levels, particularly for the young, remain shockingly high in many parts of the world.
And the unconventional monetary policies of central banks have taken us into uncharted territory.
The risks of in ation and currency volatility should not be underestimated.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives review continued Refreshing our priorities F or Standard Chartered, the network is key At our annual meeting of the Groups top leadership in January, toourcompetitiveness.
We are a true network, we took stock of our strategy and debated our priorities for 2013. withno dominant geography, and a culture We have refreshed our statement of strategic intent, sharpening the language and changing the emphasis.
The essentials of our ofcross-border collaboration.
strategy remain the same: we want to lead the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and we want to be Here for good.
Yet, every year the context and challenges differ, so our immediate priorities must shift as well.
We have set seven priorities: First, we must build stronger relationships with our clients and customers.
Deep, long-term client relationships have always been the foundation of our business, but we have to get even better: more relevant, more committed and more responsive.
Second, we must prove to a scep tical world that we really are Here for good.
This is about doing the right thing and being there for the long term.
It is about recognising that we have an important role to play in the economy and broader society.
Third, we must step up our efforts to innovate and digitise.
Whilst we have made enormous progress in automating processes and offering online and mobile access to our services, we are only in the early stages of using technology to transform the business of banking.
We want to make this happen, rather than have it happen to us.
Fourth, we have to intensify collaboration across our network.
For Standard Chartered, the network is key to our competitiveness.
We are not a dominant local bank and not dominant in any speci c product segment.
We are differentiated by our ability to facilitate cross-border trade and investment, and that is as much about the way we work as about our physical network.
Fifth, we need to get tter and more exible in the way we work.
We need to be ever more ef cient, smarter in deploying scarce resources, and more adaptable and agile.
Sixth, we must accelerate the next generation of leaders.
Taking a long-term perspective means building a strong succession pipeline of diverse leaders.
Finally, we have to deliver superior financial performance.
By focusing on the fundamentals, sticking to our strategy, funding before lending and keeping a tight grip on risks and costs, we can continue to deliver a distinctive combination of growth and returns for our investors.
Group overview 11 Embedding our values and culture Collaborating across our network Proving we are Here for good is all about our values and culture.
Both culture and technology are crucial tools in intensifying Lots of people are now talking about the culture of banks, but we collaboration across our network.
Since our earliest years in have been investing time and energy in reinforcing our culture for the nineteenth century, we have focused on international trade.
We see it as a key source of competitive We opened in India and China in 1858 and in Hong Kong and differentiation and a key risk management tool.
Our long history in our markets has real resonance with our clients and cannot be replicated by new We identi ed and introduced our values a decade ago, entrants.
Today, we are one of the top two trade finance banks in embedding them into our performance management system the world.
Trade represents around 16 per cent of our Wholesale to reward our people, not just for what they achieve, but for how Banking income directly, but when you include products and they achieve it.
services linked to trade, the gure is more than 50 per cent.
There is no single tool to reinforce culture, no magic recipe, Most big international banks operate through a hub and spoke and no organisation of nearly 90,000 people can ensure that model.
By contrast, we are a true network, with no dominant everyone does everything perfectly all the time.
But we need to geography and with a culture of cross-border collaboration.
keep working at reinforcing this aspect of Standard Chartered, Wea im to be even more seamless in serving our clients because it is one of the things that make us stand out.
That is cross-border needs a nd even more effective in optimising why we created a Board Brand and Values Committee in 2010, deployment of our balance sheet.
This will require re ned and why we launched Here for good.
performance metrics, streamlined information and process ows, and, above all, an infectious spirit of co-operation and Investing in technology-driven innovation co-ordination.
We must also keep innovating, to offer our clients and customers new and better solutions, cut costs and reinforce We continue to expand our network.
In 2011, we opened risk management.
In an inherently digital industry, failing to our representative of ce in Mongolia.
In November 2012, embrace technology-driven innovation would be suicidal.
we completed our acquisition of Credit Agricoles business in Turkey, upgrading our representative of ce to a subsidiary, We have been investing to increase automation of our back-end and in February 2013, we opened our representative of ce in systems to drive down transaction costs and to improve service Myanmar, returning to a country we first entered in 1862. quality and resilience.
As a result, our operations cost income ratio has declined consistently, whilst staff productivity has risen.
During February, we also signed an agreement to form a joint venture bank with ENSA, one of Angolas largest insurance We are also investing in underlying data management companies.
By upgrading our presence in this way, we will systems and analytical capabilities.
This is critical for seamless become one of the first international banks to have an onshore management of client relationships across multiple geographies, presence in sub-Saharan Africas third largest economy.
In all and vital for risk management.
of these places, we are serving the needs of our existing clients.
We are accelerating innovation to make the Group more We are taking a long-term perspective, investing now with a accessible and easier to use through social media, online and horizon of at least 10 years.
We continue to roll out Breeze, our mobile banking app, and have reached over a million downloads since it was launched.
We have come a long way in Internet banking.
Ten years ago we were a laggard: today our platform is award-winning.
In Wholesale Banking, we are investing in our global platforms to enhance pr oduct capability and seamless delivery.
In cash management we are harmonising our underlying infrastructure and enhancing functionality.
In custody management, we are enabling clients to streamline cash and foreign exchange processing and achieve better cut-off times.
And in foreign exchange and asset liability management, a new project will enable us to carry out straight-through processing of payments 24 7 across 43 markets, reducing risk and lowering costs per trade by around 10 per cent.
Across the bank, we are investing harder and faster in technology than ever before.
12 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executives review continued ASEAN T he story of the past decade is one of resilience, With our return to Myanmar, we are now the only major of growth, of consistent delivery.
Since 2002, international bank present in all 10 Association of South East Standard Chartered has been transformed.
Over the past five years, our income in ASEAN has grown by a CAGR of 14 per cent, although in 2012 Thenext 10 years should be equally exciting.
income growth slowed to just over 7 per cent.
We saw good Weare in the right markets.
We have a clear growth in Indonesia, up 13 per cent: Malaysia, up 18 per cent: strategy.
We are investing in our businesses.
Thailand, up 13 per cent: the Philippines, up 11 per cent: and Vietnam, up 27 per cent.
Singapore, our largest market in the region, grew by 1 per cent, but it is important to put this performance in context: income in Singapore grew 26 per cent in 2011, and has grown by a CAGR of 20 per cent over the past five years.
We are taking advantage of domestic growth within ASEAN, as the regions 600 million people become increasingly prosperous, and we are taking advantage of intra-regional trade and investment, as ASEANs economies become increasingly integrated.
At $4.5 billion, ASEAN now represents just under 24 per cent of the Groups total income.
Greater China We are also bene ti ng from the economic convergence of Greater China.
In 2012, Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China delivered income of $4.9 billion, up 11 per cent and exceeding the CAGR of 9 per cent over the past five years.
Greater China now represents just over a quarter of the Groups total income.
Our income in China grew by 21 per cent in 2012, and we will keep investing.
With our network across 25 cities, we are one of very few international banks that reach huge inland cities such as Chongqing, Chengdu and Xian.
With growth inland now faster than growth in the coastal regions, we are well placed to exploit the changing shape of Chinas economy.
In Consumer Banking, we are concentrating on the high value segments, and on SMEs in particular.
In Wholesale Banking, we are focusing on rapidly growing mid-market companies.
We are also supporting multinationals investing in China, such as Shell and Tesco, and helping Chinas leading companies as they expand overseas.
In addition to what we do onshore, China is now our largest generator of network income, up 25 per cent yearonyear to over $700 million.
Hong Kong is the largest recipient, as we increasingly run our Hong Kong and China businesses as one.
Income in Hong Kong grew by 10 per cent, with Wholesale Banking income from RMB-denominated business up 30 per cent, mainly in foreign exchange and trade, whilst RMB deposits in the Consumer Bank grew by 70 per cent yearonyear.
Group overview 13 Taiwan had a more challenging year in 2012, given regulatory We remain focused on consistent delivery against the framework constraints on consumer lending, and the year-on-year of our four financial objectives: double-digit income growth, costs distortions from one-off gains in 2011.
Yet, in Wholesale Banking growing in line with income, double-digit growth in earnings per we are now making real progress, bene ti ng from the links with share and mid-teens return on equity in the medium term.
China, particularly in Transaction Banking.
In summary, we have started the year with very good Greater China is a key engine of growth for Standard Chartered.
momentum and an exceptionally strong balance sheet.
We are With a signi cant presence, long history and deep relationships well positioned in some of the most dynamic growth markets across all three markets, we are extraordinarily well placed to in the world, and we are well placed to make the most of the bene t from the regions continued growth and convergence.
We continue to take market share, we continue to grow and we remain con dent and committed Outlook to consistent financial delivery.
2012 was undoubtedly a challenging year and 2013 will no doubt bring new challenges.
But the story of the past decade is one of resilience, of growth, of consistent delivery.
Since 2002, Standard Chartered has been transformed.
I would like to thank our investors for their support throughout this journey.
Peter Sands I would also like to thank our employees for their hard work, Group Chief Executive professionalism and commitment.
5 March 2013 The next 10 years should be equally exciting.
We are in the right markets.
No doubt our markets will continue to change dramatically, as they grow and get richer.
No doubt technology will change the way banks work and compete, and no doubt regulation will force further change in business models.
We are not at all complacent.
Yet, by sticking to our strategy, by staying true to our culture, and by being innovative and adaptive, I am con dent that we can continue to be successful.
Looking at January and our momentum through February, the Group has started 2013 well.
Consumer Banking income is well ahead of the comparable period last year.
Wholesale Banking client income is also ahead, with good levels of client activity and very strong volumes across our markets.
However, own account income is down, re ecting lower asset liability management income.
We continue to have a rm grip on the levers of risk, cost and investment, and are using our balance sheet strength to increase the nancing support to our clients and customers.
We continue to take a conservative approach to managing the balance sheet, maintaining a strong liquidity position and keeping a watchful eye on asset quality given the uncertainties that remain in the external environment.
