SVG Capital plc Annual report 12 2012 Chief Executives statement For the third consecutive year the investment portfolio has delivered adouble digit totalreturn Against a backdrop of continued economic The various funds managed by our fund uncertainty, for the third consecutive year management business, SVG Advisers, the investment portfolio has delivered a continued to perform well, however, the double digit total return 13.5%, which fundraising market for private equity hasagain been driven by positive earnings remains challenging.
In light of this, during momentum, deleveraging and the strong the year we conducted a strategic review of performance of some of our listed the business and it became clear that if we holdings.
The portfolio, whilst focused, has wanted to grow SVG Advisers, it would significant exposure to global businesses need to partner with another asset with diversied and resilient revenue management business that had a streams and most portfolio companies are significant distribution platform.
We are budgeting for healthy revenue and profit therefore pleased to announce that we growth performance in 2013. have entered into a strategic alliance withAberdeen.
Towards the end of the year the market environment improved and Permira exited We established SVG Advisers in 2001 and several investments.
The most material of its funds have since gone on to commit these was the sale of the remaining holding over 7.5 billion to private equity funds in Galaxy Entertainment, in addition to this globally, developing a long and strong Permira also announced the sale of Marazzi track record in private equity fund and continued in the gradual sell down of selection.
We believe that the strategic its remaining stake in listed Danish alliance is a good balance of crystallising Telecoms provider, TDC.
Together with some of the value in SVG Advisers for thiswe also completed on a number of ourshareholders, whilst still retaining secondary transactions, reorienting the inuence and access to a skill set that 1 3.5 % portfolio towards less mature assets and wecan leverage from for SVG Capitals total return on the investment portfolio strengthening liquidity.
The Company ended the year with net cash of 28.7 million, allowing the Board 1 the opportunity to review the balance 101.4m sheet with a view to simplifying the of capital returned since December 2011 Companys nancing arrangements and move towards more exible borrowing.
InDecember, we agreed an additional facility of 50 million with our bankers, Lloyds, increasing our revolving credit facility to 150 million, maturing in 2 December 2015 and in the coming months we will be repaying some of the outstanding Senior Notes.
1 Including fees of 1.0 million 2 The 100 million Tranche A of SVG Capitals revolving credit facility matured on 18 January 2013 SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 13 The Company is well positioned to take advantage of new investment opportunities andhas made its first new commitment, whichis100 million to the Fifth Cinven fund.
Aberdeen will pay a cash consideration of The combined business will be branded The strategic alliance with Aberdeen 17.5 million for the acquisition of a 50.1% Aberdeen SVG Private Equity and will be crystallises value for shareholders and 1 interest in SVG Advisers, as well as led by Lynn Fordham who will also remain combines SVG Advisers private equity on-going income from certain Aberdeen Chief Executive of SVG Capital.
SVG Capital expertise with Aberdeens distribution private equity management contracts is proposing to enter into a new advisory platform, creating a leading private which are intended to be transferred to the contract with Aberdeen SVG Private Equity.
equityfund management business with combined business.
In addition, we believe The advisory fee of 0.5% of gross assets will significant growth potential.
that the strategic alliance will enable remain unchanged.
SVG Capital retains the We have laid the foundations for the next SVGAdvisers to grow its investment freedom to tender its advisory contract, phase in the Companys development platform and enter new markets faster, should it so wish, on 12 months notice.
aided by the continued strong atlower cost and with more diversication The terms of the transaction are that at the performance of the portfolio and the than it could currently achieve on its own.
end of the three year term Aberdeen has significant strengthening of the balance SVGCapital will continue to benefit from the option to acquire, and SVG Capital the sheet.
The Company is wellpositioned its share of the profit stream from this option to sell the remaining 49.9% stake, at totake advantage of new investment business during the period of the a price based on a valuation of the business opportunities and has made itsrst new strategicalliance.
at the time the option is exercised, with commitment, which is 100million to All of the staff within SVG Advisers and minimum and maximum prices set for theFifth Cinven fund.
Cinven is a leading theprivate equity team from Aberdeen thestake at 20.0 million and 35.0 million European private equity rm with a strong willwork for the strategic alliance.
The proceeds of the and consistent track record of private SVGCapital investment committee will transaction will be used for general equity investment dating back to 1977. continue to advise the Board of SVGCapital corporate purposes.
The transaction is Weexpect to announce other new on its investment portfolio and new subject to regulatory consent, certain other investments during 2013. commitments.
SVG Investment Managers, customary matters and is expected to be Lynn Fordham which manages approximately completed in the first half of 2013.
The Chief Executive 200million of public equity funds will value of SVG Capitals cash consideration 14 February 2013 notform part of the strategic alliance and and investment in the combined business, will remain an asset of SVGCapital.
measured at fair value, will be included inthe net asset value at that point.
This is expected to add a minimum of 2 37.5million 13.7p per share to the netassets of the business.
1 SVG Advisers and SVG Managers 2 17.5 million initial cash consideration and the minimum agreed price for SVG Capitals remaining 49.9% of the combined business.
In addition, the Company will continue to benefit from its share of the profit stream from this business during the period of the strategic alliance.
