Overview | Chief Executive Ofcers Review Chief Executive Ofcers Review I am both excited and honoured to In the Strategy section from page 12 of Across the entire pipeline of 84 projects, have been asked to lead AstraZeneca.
this Annual Report, we talk more about 39 successfully progressed to the next Throughout my career I have had enormous the background to our strategy and the stage of testing in 2012, including 12 respect for its people and what they have review we are undertaking.
For the rest projects into first human testing.
Since joining in October, I have of my Review I want to look at the progress projects were withdrawn.
While we met seen for myself the passion and commitment we made towards our goals in 2012, as our target for Phase III investment decisions that exists within the Group to improve the well as consider some of the setbacks for the year, we did not meet our value lives of patients around the world.
This level of energy should come as no scientific leadership To increase the value of our pipeline, we aim surprise as our innovative medicines mean In a research and development-based to access the best science and molecules that more people than ever before are business such as AstraZeneca, I believe regardless of origin.
Our portfolio was able to lead longer and healthier lives.
that everything starts with a focus strengthened during the year by a number As we seek to show throughout this on patients and great science.
It is our of successful business development Annual Report, successful pharmaceutical first priority.
Our collaboration with Amgen innovation, delivered responsibly, adds encompasses five clinical stage projects in AstraZeneca has a unique combination value not only for patients and shareholders inammation, including brodalumab, which of scientific capabilities in small molecules, but also for healthcare systems and the has already entered Phase III development.
biologics, immunotherapies and antibody communities in which we work.
In April 2012, we entered into an agreement engineering.
This puts us in a strong to acquire Ardea, which added lesinurad, The challenge position to develop the targeted novel a Phase III project for the treatment of gout, Leif has already described in his Chairmans medicines and combinations such as to our portfolio.
We also signicantly Statement how, in addition to the well-known drug-antibody conjugates required to meet expanded our diabetes alliance with BMS challenges that confront the pharmaceutical patient needs in the future.
Reviews that through its acquisition of Amylin.
sector, the loss of exclusivity of several we have held with scientific experts outside of our major brands largely dened AstraZeneca have further reinforced my Overall, we completed a record number AstraZenecas financial performance in confidence in our underlying science base.
of more than 60 important business 2012.
I believe that our ability to provide development deals in 2012 that helped We have much to do to realise our full an acceptable level of return to you in the us to strengthen our scientific leadership scientific potential but made some progress years ahead will come from an undiluted in key therapeutic areas, expand our in 2012.
On the regulatory front, we received focus on delivering great medicines to pipeline and improve our capabilities.
They approvals in Europe for Zinforo, our patients through innovative science and also helped underpin business growth in intravenous antibiotic, Caprelsa, our thyroid global excellence in development and both Established and Emerging Markets.
cancer treatment, and Forxiga, a product commercialisation.
Underpinning that Return to growth of our diabetes alliance with BMS.
In the focus are three priorities: achieving Our second priority must be to return US, FluMist Quadrivalent was approved, scientific leadership, returning AstraZeneca AstraZeneca to growth.
Our performance the first four-strain inuenza vaccine to growth and making it a great place in 2012 reected a period of significant to be approved by the FDA.
patent expiry and tough market conditions globally.
Despite the challenges we face, I am excited about AstraZenecas fundamental strengths, which will be key in returning AstraZeneca to growth.
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We must focus on delivering great medicines to patients through innovative science and global excellence in development and commercialisation.
Brilinta Brilique, our treatment for acute A great place to work of the changes, two senior roles were coronary syndromes, is now approved Skilled, committed employees are essential eliminated President of R&D, held by in 88 countries and launched in 82.
I believe if AstraZeneca is to realise its full potential.
Martin Mackay, and Executive Vicethat, while performance since its launch Unfortunately, the 2012 global employee President, Global Commercial, held has been disappointing, especially in the survey showed a reduction in the scores by Tony Zook.
Both Martin and Tony US, Brilinta Brilique has the potential to in the majority of categories.
These scores left their respective roles in January become a major product for AstraZeneca, were disappointing.
While they might be 2013, and I would like to thank them given its significant mortality benets relative regarded as understandable given our for their contribution and the exemplary to the standard of care.
We have moved challenging environment and the ongoing leadership they have shown.
quickly to improve our sales, marketing transformation of the business, my SET Innovation and growth and medical support to this important colleagues and I are committed to working In closing, I would like to thank everyone in medicine.
Early indications from some harder to ensure employees have an AstraZeneca for their support and making markets, combined with the favourable improved understanding and confidence me feel so welcome.
My first three months prole of this medicine, suggest that we in our future direction.
as Chief Executive officer confirmed the are on the right path.
More positively, it was encouraging to nature and scale of the challenges we face.
Taking full advantage of our expanded see the high level of motivation that exists Those months also confirmed my view that diabetes alliance with BMS also presents across AstraZeneca to help us succeed.
within the organisation we have both the a significant opportunity.
With the addition This was something I witnessed at first hand capabilities and skills necessary to achieve of Amylin products such as Byetta and as I spent time with colleagues on site in the scientific leadership, return to growth and Bydureon, we now have treatment options weeks after I joined the organisation.
I want be a great place to work.
I am sure that for patients from early stages of Type 2 to build on this and make AstraZeneca a by being true to our mission of bringing diabetes to the pre-insulin stage.
The launch great place to work a simplied business innovative medicines to patients we can of the extended portfolio in the US, only that comprises a diverse and talented meet our shortand medium-term goals a few weeks after we concluded the deal, workforce operating in a high performance and thereby deliver our longer term demonstrates how swiftly we can move culture, which enables us to bring great aspirations for the business.
to bring a range of treatment options medicines to patients.
to physicians and their patients.
Senior Executive Team With our well-established commercial In January 2013, we announced changes strength, we are in a strong position to to our Senior Executive Team, which were bring our medicines to patients in Emerging designed to provide sharper management Pascal Soriot Markets.
Conditions have been tough in focus, as well as devolving and accelerating Chief Executive officer Mexico, Brazil and some other markets, decision making.
Changes include but strong growth in countries such as increased representation of the Companys Russia and China shows how much our scientific expertise, product portfolio and products are valued in these markets.
Members of the new SET are shown on pages 108 and 109 and I look forward to working with them all on delivering our strategic goals.
As a result AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 9 Strategy | The value of innovation Innovation means better health outcomes for patients Our innovative medicines are playing a part in increasing survival rates and improving quality of life for patients in important areas of medical need.
For example, Brilinta Brilique, our treatment for acute coronary syndromes, shows a 21% relative reduction in cardiovascular mortality against the current standard of care over a 12 month duration of therapy.
In the UK, the government has announced it is to extend the inuenza vaccination programme to all children, recommending use of our nasal spray vaccine, Fluenz.
Even with moderate vaccination uptake, the UK alone could see around a 40% drop in the number of people affected.
That would mean at least 11,000 fewer hospitalisations as a result of inuenza and around 2,000 fewer deaths a year.
10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Innovation is not always about breakthrough discoveries medical progress can often be delivered just as effectively through incremental improvements.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 11
