Group chief executives letter We are building a platform for growth that should serve us well for many years to come.
Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder BP made important progress in 2012.
We achieved a series of strategic milestones and remained on course with our plans to 2014 and beyond.
We made great strides forward in Russia and the US.
We continued to enhance risk management.
We focused on our areas of greatest strength.
And we sold assets to capture value, simplify the business and reduce risk.
Before I say more about our activities and plans, I would like to reflect, with great sadness, on the terrible events that took place at the In Amenas joint venture facility in Algeria in January 2013.
Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the attack.
We are working with government agencies and others to determine what can be learned from this shocking incident.
Coming back to our work over the past few years, people may not be fully aware of the enormous scale of the change we have made.
By the end of 2012 we had announced asset sales of $38 billion, essentially reaching our target a year early.
Since the divestment programme began, we have sold around half our upstream installations and pipelines, and one-third of our wells while retaining roughly 90% of our proved reserves base and production.
Meanwhile, we are gaining new exploration access, rolling out high value projects and upgrading assets.
Our Downstream segment has had an excellent year with strong operational performance a and record underlying profits.
We made good progress on the modernization programme of our Whiting refinery and reached agreement on the divestment of two major refineries in the US, completing the sale of our Texas City refinery in February 2013.
There is more to do and there will always be new challenges to face, but we are steadily acting to build a stronger, safer BP.
We are addressing uncertainty in the US In 2012 we resolved federal criminal charges with the Department of Justice and securities claims with the SEC.
We continue to work with the Environmental Protection Agency to Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley with Igor resolve suspension and debarment issues.
Sechin, President of Rosneft, on the day the BP We have consistently said we are willing to settle all outstanding claims on reasonable board approved the transaction.
terms, but we are also prepared to defend the company and its actions in court.
We will do what is in the best interests of our shareholders.
I recognize that ongoing proceedings prolong uncertainty, so we will endeavour to update you as events unfold.
Back in 2010 we said that we would help restore the environment and economy of the Gulf.
We are holding true to that promise.
In 2012 we made our final payment into the $20-billion Trust fund, from which $9.5 billion has been distributed to date.
We supported environmental research and provided funds for the local tourism industry.
Having grown up in the Gulf, I am heartened that the tourists are back, beaches are busy and the fishing is good.
To date, BP has made total payments directly related to the accident and oil spill of $32.8 billion.
We will continue to meet our commitments in the region.
We are repositioning BP in Russia In 2012 we agreed to sell our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
TNK-BP proved to be an outstanding investment, generating substantial value for BP.
From an initial commitment of around $8 billion, it has returned some $19 billion of dividends to us.
But the time had come to move on.
8 BP Summary Review 2012 The new agreement will provide us with an 18.5% share in Rosneft and $12.3 billion of cash, $ including a dividend of $0.7 billion received from TNK-BP in December 2012.
Combined with 19 billion our existing 1.25% shareholding, we will own 19.75% of Rosneft.
We expect the transaction Dividends received by BP from TNK-BP to be completed in the first half of 2013.
Through it, we will maintain a strong position in the since 2003. worlds largest oil and gas producing country.
And we will be a major investor in a company transforming its asset base, management processes and corporate governance.
We will use our experience in large acquisitions and mergers to support Rosneft as it assimilates TNK-BPs assets.
We can also contribute technical skills in areas from exploration and enhanced oil recovery to integrating downstream businesses and international developments.
We have confidence in the Russian business environment and we look forward to playing a valued role in the countrys future.
We are enhancing safety and risk management Our employees have been working systematically to enhance safety and risk management.
We have changed how we are organized, bringing greater clarity and consistency across the company.
In the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, we are holding our operations to standards that in many cases go beyond regulatory requirements.
And we have turned lessons learned from the 2010 accident into new oil spill response plans and technologies, which we are adopting within BP and sharing with others.
I take encouragement from our 19% reduction in loss of primary containment this past year, continuing a multi-year trend.
2012 saw the appointment of Carl Sandlin, who will oversee the implementation of the recommendations of the Bly Report, BPs internal accident investigation.
In addition, following our agreement with the US government to resolve all federal criminal claims, we have agreed to take additional actions designed to further enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf.
Two independent monitors will be appointed to review and provide recommendations, one regarding process safety for deepwater drilling in the Gulf and the other BPs code of conduct.
An independent auditor will review and report on BPs implementation of key terms of the agreement.
We are building a distinctive platform for growth In shaping our portfolio, we are prioritizing shareholder value.
Scale remains important, but we are focused on driving forward our financial performance rather than simply growing production volumes.
Operating cash flow and replacement cost profit will take precedence over barrels of production.
We are increasing investment in the areas with the greatest potential to generate strong and reliable growth in operating cash flow, from exploration and deepwater operations to giant fields and gas value chains.
In the Downstream, we have a portfolio of world-class businesses that are positioned to b The new US-based High-Performance deliver material and growing free cash flows.
Computing centre, which is currently There is plenty for us to explore.
During the year we gained new access in six countries.
under construction, will enable BP scientists to Since 2010 we have accessed around 400,000 square kilometres of new acreage.
That complete an imaging project in one day is roughly the size of California and more than double the exploration acreage gained whereas it would have taken four years nearly from 2000 to 2009. a decade ago.
We continue to have an important presence in many of the worlds largest economies and in fast-developing countries too.
BPs global footprint and prudent financial approach are important given the potential for turbulence in the world, including further economic and political upheaval.
We are well placed to respond to unsettled conditions if and when they appear.
Looking ahead While facing uncertainties and navigating through testing times, BP emerged from 2012 a somewhat smaller, but stronger company.
As we move forward, you will see us keep working to focus, standardize and improve what we do and how we do it.
We are building a platform for growth that should serve us well for many years to come.
I want to end by paying tribute to everyone here at BP.
This has been another truly demanding year, and our employees have dedicated themselves to their jobs in a way that I find humbling.
I am proud of the talent and the terrific spirit of determination to improve that is found within BP.
Over the next 12 months and beyond, we will continue our work to enhance safety, earn back trust and create value.
a Downstream underlying profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See page 19 for the equivalent measure on an IFRS Bob Dudley basis.
See Definitions on page 29 for further information on Group Chief Executive underlying profit.
b See footnote e on page 16 for a definition of free cash flow.
