22 Strategy Chief Executives introduction biggest engineering projects the UK has have more to do and next year we aim to ever seen with 3,000 full time BT engineers introduce a number of improvements that involved today.
Weve also recruited hundreds will cut fault rates, improve our customers of former Armed Forces personnel to join a experience when they call us, and provide our mobile team of engineers to help speed up the services more quickly.
In common with other European telecoms With further investment from BT, companies, we are experiencing both supplemented with funds from Governments economic and regulatory headwinds.
A Broadband Delivery UK initiative, local number of regulatory rulings are expected to government and other sources, we believe it is impact group revenue in the year ahead and possible to provide bre to around 90% of UK it is clear that the economy across most of premises inve years time.
We remain the leading provider of broadband That said, we remain committed to becoming Watch my video online at in the UK, with more than 6m customers.
We expect to continue to www.
com annualreport Our copper line base has seen the largest deliver higher profits and cash ow while we increase in many years as customers recognise invest in future growth.
Good execution and a the advantages of xed-line broadband.
commitment to investing in our future remain Consumers are increasingly looking for at the core of what we will do.
We are focused competitively priced bundles of broadband on building a better business for the long term.
services that combine telephony and TV.
In what remains Thank you for your support.
Our BT Vision service now has over 700,000 a challenging customers, up 23% on last year.
Increasingly people want to be connected environment we have when theyre on the move, and our UK customers can now use one of BTs more than delivered another year 4m wihotspots to access the internet when Ian Livingston away from home.
Chief Executive of growth in profits and 9 May 2012 At a time when many of our corporate free cash ow.
customers are facing their own challenges, our investments internationally will help those seeking to expand in faster growing economies.
Weve increased BTs presence in In this years annual report we explain how we the Asia Pacic region and in Latin America: are building a better business and investing for and we recently embarked on a series of the future.
Id like to highlight the areas where initiatives in Turkey, the Middle East and we have made good progress, and those where Africa aimed at doubling our business we know there is more to do.
The total order intake for our global business was 6.7bn during the year with an In what remains a challenging environment over 60% increase in orders from these faster we have delivered another year of growth growingeconomies.
in profits and free cash ow.
While it is more difficult to grow revenue, we are making We aim to provide the best service in the progress towards that goal.
market and our right first time programme remains at the core of our service improvement We have now passed 10m homes and programme.
We continue to reduce complaints businesses with our bre roll-out, many and improve service levels.
However, we still months ahead of schedule.
Its one of the Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
