OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chris Grigg Chief Executive Against a more challenging economic backdrop, our business had a good year.
Once again, we significantly outperformed the IPD benchmarks on all key metrics rental value growth, capital returns and total returns.
Our continued strong outperformance reflects our chosen sectors and the actions we have taken to drive performance in recent years.
Our results show that we are defensively positioned in todays more challenging markets, but also well placed to continue to outperform in the future as a result of decisions we have taken.
Our strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 5 Creating Investing in Creating Controlling Exploiting sustainable assets which incremental our costs to our scale and growing protect and value through maximise and financial property grow the developing, profit strength rental income capital value repositioning generation over the assets and medium to exploiting long term market anomalies Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION See Our business strategy and Key Performance Indicators P2227 At British Land our vision is to build the best REIT in Europe.
At the portfolio level, we have now We have sharpened our focus on Being the best REIT for us outperformed the market over the last income growth both through our asset means producing consistent one, three and five years.
outperformance over time as measured by our property returns, along with a return which Total property returns relative to IPD Net rental income growth is higher than our cost of capital.
2012 200 bps 5.4% 2011 190 bps Our strategic priorities underpin our approach, the aim of which to ensure 2010 420 bps we focus our efforts on the most value enhancing activities.
Our five priorities are: generating sustainable rental income growth: protecting and growing the value of our capital: creating incremental value the value of our portfolio rose 2.6% our decision to leverage our expertise through developing, repositioning assets and and our NAV was 4.9% ahead: and financial strength to create exploiting market anomalies: controlling incremental value through repositioning our ERVs grew by 2.1% outperforming costs: and exploiting our scale and financial assets and exploiting pricing anomalies: the IPD benchmark by 160 bps: strength.
We closely monitor our progress securing our medium-term funding against these priorities and report on them our capital return was 3.0%, requirements by well-timed and below.
After two positive years, as property outperforming the IPD benchmark executed financings: and values recovered from the sharp falls during by 250 bps: the credit crisis and prime office rents in more recently, increasing the pace our total property returns were 8.3%, London rose significantly, the last year has of asset recycling.
outperforming the IPD benchmark been much more challenging.
This reflects by 200 bps: and the re-emergence of economic and political Our objective: delivering superior Total tensions in the Eurozone last summer our total accounting return was 9.5%.
Shareholder Returns and more recently, the faltering of economic Our total accounting return was 9.5% for growth in the UK, with the latest official Our continued strong outperformance the year, including growth in EPRA Net statistics suggesting the economy has is a clear reflection of the benefits of Asset Value of 4.9% to 595 pence.
The Board slipped back into recession.
The combination the structure of our business both from has proposed a 1.5% increase in the fourth of these two factors impacted both the a portfolio and a financial perspective, quarter dividend to 6.6 pence bringing occupational and the investment markets along with specific actions we have taken the dividend for the full year to 26.1 pence.
in the UK, particularly in retail, but also to drive performance in recent years: The Board is intending to pay a dividend, to some extent in central London, where at this higher level, of 6.6 pence per quarter our portfolio focus on prime retail hitherto, demand has remained resilient.
for the coming financial year FY2013 and central London offices along with making a total of 26.4 pence.
At a portfolio our conviction that polarisation in the Against this more challenging backdrop, level, our total property returns were 8.3%, occupational and investment markets our business had a good year and we are outperforming the IPD benchmark by 200 would be the key determinant of pleased to be able to report good progress bps.
We have now outperformed the market performance: on income and capital value and that once on total property returns over the last one, again, we significantly outperformed the our intensified focus on strengthening three and five years.
IPD benchmarks on all key metrics: and growing our rental income flows both through our asset management activities net rental income and underlying and through acquisitions: earnings were ahead by 5.4% and 5.1% respectively: our early decision to invest in a significant office development programme in central London: The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 17 OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued Our strategic priorities In Offices, while leasing activity across the market remained subdued, we continued 1 Creating sustainable and growing to see encouraging levels of activity in our Our unconditional pre-lets with Aon, rental income portfolio, particularly in developments.
Debenhams and UBS, have secured Our net rental income was 5.4% ahead This reflects the quality of our buildings 34 million of future income for nearly of the comparable period last year and our customer service which continue 20 years.
546 million on a proportionally consolidated to attract and retain occupiers.
Acquisitions accounted for a investment portfolio, we agreed one million significant proportion of the increase sq ft of lettings and lease extensions Office development lettings with like-for-like net rental income growth at 3.3% ahead of ERV, moving our occupancy up by 1.5%, reflecting continued demand ahead further by 20 bps to 98.0%.
As a Total 1,065,500 sq ft for our high quality space and successful result, the proportion of our office rent City 891,000 sq ft asset management initiatives.
Underlying subject to lease break or expiry over the West End 174,500 sq ft pre-tax profits grew broadly in line with next three years fell from 12.0% a year ago rental income at 5.1% to 269 million.
In developments, our successful pre-letting of over one million sq ft of our Overall, our total occupancy increased development space has secured 34 million by 20 bps to 98.0% reflecting the strength of of rent for an average term of 20 years.
our leasing activity along with the beneficial impact of acquisitions.
Leasing activity 2 Investing in assets which protect 3 Creating incremental value through during the year, excluding development and grow the capital value over developing, repositioning assets and pre-lets, generated 10.0 million of new the medium to long term exploiting market anomalies annual rent across the Group.
Acquisitions There was a marked slowdown in investment The value of our total office, retail and made in the year generated an additional market activity across the market in the residential development programme rose 21 million of annual rental income.
second half of the year, reflecting increased by 13.6% to 701 million, primarily reflecting Estimated rental values for the portfolio uncertainty in the UK and Europe.
Overall the significant progress made in offices, rose by 2.1% compared to 0.5% for the capital values grew modestly by 0.5% as where we agreed binding pre-lets on 50% market as measured by IPD.
However, demand for the of the space which is under construction.
highest-quality, income-generating assets In our Retail business, in what was a more remained robust, with most of the outward In Offices, we agreed unconditional difficult market, demand for space remained pressure on yields and values being seen pre-lets on 1.1 million sq ft of space robust across our UK portfolio through the in more secondary assets.
under development to three high quality corporate occupiers.
Having satisfied all year as retailers continued to look for highthe outstanding conditions, our agreement quality, affordable space, which they believe We continued to benefit from the prime can meet the needs of their businesses going nature of our portfolio, the strength of with UBS to build them a new 700,000 sq ft forward.
The attractiveness of our retail offer our income flows, our exposure to central office at Broadgate, went unconditional is reflected in the strength of our operational London, and the progress made on our during the year.
Footfall across our UK portfolio major development programme.
The value unconditional pre-lets with Aon, a global was up 0.3%, significantly outperforming of our portfolio rose to 10.3 billion, an insurer which is relocating its global the industry average which fell 2.0%: our increase of 2.6% over the year.
Our capital headquarters to London, to pre-let around occupancy remained high at 98.3% and our returns outperformed the market by 30% of our Leadenhall Building and with ERVs rose by 1.4% compared to a fall of 0.4% 250 bps.
Offices was the main contributor Debenhams, a major UK department store for the market as a whole.
Lettings and to performance, increasing in value operator, which has taken nearly half of our renewals were agreed on one million sq ft by 7.3%, primarily reflecting further gains latest office development at Regents Place at an average of 6.9% above ERV.
Tenants in the offices development portfolio as we in the West End.
The terms, each of which in administration at the year end were 0.6% continued to achieve further milestones were ahead of the investment case, in of our total rent which compares with 0.5% but also enhancing the strength of income aggregate secured 34 million of rent for a year ago.
Of the 60 retail units that were in the investment portfolio.
We have also pre-sold 96 million in administration at 31 March 2012, nearly our UK Retail portfolio were ahead 0.4%, of the residential at, on average, 26% ahead 60% are currently under offer to be re-let outperforming a difficult retail market of our original investment case.
Following the administration where capital returns fell by 0.8%.
of Clinton Cards in May, administrations rose to 1.0% of total rent.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 1.
7m sq ft 70,000 sq ft Committed retail Residential-led development development In Retail, we increased the pace of our 4 Controlling our costs to maximise Outlook development activity to take advantage profit generation We believe British Land is well placed.
of a shortage of high-quality space triggered Our cost income ratio for the year was Key market trends favour our business by a lack of development finance.
We 14.9%, maintaining our position as the most mix: London will continue to outperform started on site at Whiteley, a 302,000 sq ft cost competitive of the major UK REITs.
the rest of the UK and polarisation will new concept out-of-town shopping centre Net operating costs representing property continue, particularly in Retail.
Our results in southern Hampshire: and we began outgoings and administrative expenses, net show the clear benefit of the long-term construction of a 45,000 sq ft leisure of fees received for managing joint ventures sector and asset choices we have made.
Whiteley and funds, and other income were higher There is also significant value still to come is 68% pre-let or under offer to a range than the previous year which benefited from our existing London office development of well-known high street retailers: and the from the non-vesting of incentive schemes.
Given the ongoing shortage Glasgow Fort leisure complex is fully pre-let.
Our administration costs remained stable of quality space in both offices and retail, We invested in building up our future throughout the year at 19 million we believe there are further opportunities development pipeline, receiving planning proportionally consolidated per quarter.
to create value and we are investing in permissions for 200,000 sq ft of expanding our future development pipeline.
These included a major Within the office development programme, We intend to increase the pace of refurbishment and extension to Surrey we successfully contracted 617 million recycling and to re-invest in higher growth Quays shopping centre in London.
In British Land share 429 million representing opportunities including development.
addition, we have recently applied for a new over 80% of our total construction costs.
We do remain cautious about the overall 52,000 sq ft retail-led development on the By committing to schemes early we economic environment which remains land adjoining our Meadowhall Shopping have succeeded in securing contracts at difficult: we expect it to remain so with Centre.
Our development at Puerto Venecia, attractive levels and better than our original the UK economy growing slowly at best Zaragoza, is on schedule for completion expectations.
and the Eurozone crisis unlikely to resolve in autumn 2012 with the scheme now 69% quickly.
Against this background, we pre-let or under offer.
5 Exploiting our scale and financial expect property capital values in the UK strength to be variable in the near term.
In addition, we have committed to We arranged 2 billion British Land share 70,000 sq ft of residential-led development 1.4 billion of new financing since April 2011 Overall, our results show that our business with an estimated end value of 94 million, at an average margin to British Land of is defensively positioned in todays more representing a 19% profit on cost.
Overall, our average interest rate difficult markets: we have a high quality As existing residential developments are on a proportionally consolidated basis fell portfolio, secure and sustainable rental sold, we will continue to look for further by 30 bps to 4.6% at 31 March compared income and a strong financial position.
attractive residential opportunities to to the same time a year ago.
The Groups We are also well placed to benefit as the financial position remains strong with generate strong incremental returns economic environment improves and through a predominantly develop-anda diverse source of funds and a broad our decision to increase the quarterly sell approach.
spread of maturities giving us significant dividend demonstrates our confidence operational and financing security and in the Groups prospects.
As announced earlier in the year, recycling flexibility.
At the end of the year, our loan is becoming a more important part to value ratio was 45.3% proportionally of our investment strategy with the pace consolidated, within the Groups stated of disposals likely to increase as we seek target range of 4050%, and the Groups to more actively redeploy capital into loan to value was 29.1%.
We spent Chris Grigg 371 million gross on acquisitions, Chief Executive the largest of which was a portfolio of 17 Virgin Active premium racquet clubs.
Since April 2011, we made 100 million gross of disposals which included a number of non-core retail and office properties as well as five of the smaller Virgin Active clubs we acquired earlier in the year, which were sold at an 18% premium to the original purchase price.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 19
