Strategic review Overview Chief Executives report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief executives Its all about report retail invEsTmEnT: 627m of office sales 541m of retail acquisitions Introduction StRAtegy CReAtINg HIgH-quAlIty PRoPeRty In early 2012, we set out a revised Structural consumer trends including the growth strategy to become a pure retail-focused of e-commerce and mobile technologies are Experience prime shopping centres business, in order to generate superior, reshaping the requirements of retailers for sustainable returns for shareholders.
Consumers increasingly show Prime shopping centres which offer exciting We stated our intention to exit our a preference for experience, convenience or brands, full-line stores, high-quality catering office investments, and redeploy capital luxury.
Retailers are therefore seeking fewer, and leisure facilities in a safe, mobile-enabled into the three winning areas of retail: but larger units in prime shopping centres: environment are continuing to attract prime shopping centres offering innovative new formats which capitalise on successful retailers.
experience: retail parks offering fashion demand and click & collect facilities at Our major retail and leisure development at convenience: and premium designer retail parks: and representation in high-footfall, Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille, is now 83% outlets offering luxury and value.
pre-let, which is a testament to the strength I am pleased to report that we have In early 2012, we set out a revised strategy to of the catchment area and positioning of the met this objective.
become a pure retail-focused business, in order scheme.
In addition to securing Printemps as to generate superior, sustainable returns for a major anchor, pre-letting agreements were shareholders.
We announced the exit from our exchanged in the year with brands such as office investments for 627 million, a 7% premium Sandro, Michael Kors, Gant, Bose, and G-Star.
We announced a total Construction is on schedule and on budget, of 541 million of investments into the three with the project expected to open in spring winning locations of retail: prime shopping centres, 2014.
On opening, this venue will become an retail parks and premium designer outlets.
iconic example of what consumers can expect from retail destinations of the future.
Across our three chosen areas of retail, our strategic priorities are to: create high-quality During the year we enhanced our position in property, maximise income, and operate Croydon by announcing the acquisition of a 25% within a prudent and flexible capital structure.
share of the leasehold interest in Whitgift, In conjunction with a continued focus on Croydon for 65 million.
In January 2013 we operating and financial efficiency, we are provided clarity and certainty for both retailers targeting strong growth in earnings and and residents by announcing the formation dividends over the three year period to 2015. of a 50:50 joint venture with Westfield.
This JV will complete the acquisition of the 25% Whitgift stake and take responsibility for joint delivery of our development plans for Croydon.
Focus areas see pages 8 to 17 for more details ExpEriEncE convEniEncE Luxury 490m 20 22 investment in Value Retail prime Shopping Centres convenient Retail Parks 250m largest 9 annual visits direct owner of UK parks premium outlet villages across Europe 2 4bn 500,000m 17% of annual tenants sales of space compound annual growth in tenants sales 6 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 627m 541m Strategic review Overview Chief Executives report Governance Financial statements Other information Follow our news on Twitter, YouTube and become a fan on Facebook: @Hammersonplc Hammerson plc Hammersonplc % -10.6 EnvironmEnT: 10.6% reduction in carbon emissions target 20% by 2015 The pre-letting of our proposed Le Jeu fide Rugby, where we have submitted a planning formats to our portfolio, including Printemps at Paume retail development at Beauvais, north application.
In Cramlington, the 5,900m Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille, Jeff Banks of Paris, is progressing well.
We have secured leisure extension of Manor Walks, to be first standalone store in Brent Cross, London H&M as the main fashion anchor at the anchored by Vue, will be ready for opening in and Pretty Green at Bullring, Birmingham.
scheme, and with Carrefour and Le Furet du the summer.
At Cyfarthfa, Merthyr Tydfil, we Nord, 34% of the income is already exchanged have signed M&S to anchor the 14,500m Catering and leisure or in solicitors hands.
Following the acquisition retail extension, which will help bring other Quality catering and leisure options add of the land at the start of 2013, we are high street brands to the park.
vibrancy to our venues and continue to grow now committed to this development and in importance for consumers.
At WestQuay, construction will commence later this year.
Luxury premium designer outlets Southampton, we launched a transformed We also acquired Victoria Quarter in Leeds for Consumer preference for luxury brands Dining at WestQuay with new restaurants 136 million during the year.
Victoria Quarter, combined with increasing tourist demand has including Pizza Express, Wagamama and Caf anchored by Harvey Nichols, has successfully driven impressive tenants sales growth, and Rouge Express alongside Tortilla and Eds Easy established itself as a leading luxury retail rental income, at premium designer outlets Diner.
This trend is also evident at our UK retail destination in the heart of Leeds retail core such as Bicester Village.
We anticipate this parks, where we signed well-known brands and continues to experience strong demand trend continuing as global tourist numbers such as Costa and Frankie & Bennys to the from designer retail brands.
In conjunction increase over the coming years.
In 2012 Value portfolio in the year.
with our existing John Lewis anchored Retail VR remerchandised 25% of its selling development at Eastgate, we will now bring space, introducing new brands such as Multi-channel retailing forward a combined retail destination, creating Blumarine, Boggi, and Lagerfeld, as well as During the year we upgraded all UK shopping a direct route between the Victoria and completing an extension at La Valle Village, centre websites to become fully mobileEastgate Quarters.
We expect to submit Paris.
From a base of over 30 million annual enabled, and provided free wi-fi in all centres.
a planning application for Eastgate Quarters shoppers, retailers sales have consequently At The Oracle in Reading we have successfully by June, and start on site next year.
increased 13%, rental income rose by 17% and trialled a product-specific search tool from the valuation of VRs Villages went up by 18%.
Google, and this service will be extended to all Convenience retail parks In line with our intention to increase capital centres in the coming months.
Convenient, well-managed retail parks in allocated to the high-growth sector of premium Following the upgrade to centre websites out-of-town locations are securing an designer outlets, we announced in July the and provision of wi-fi accessibility, we are increasing number of fashion and catering acquisition of further interests in VR holding commencing a digital loyalty programme at tenants, due to their accessibility and ability companies for a total of 80 million and selected centres in the UK and France.
The to support retailers click & collect offer.
increased our shareholder loan to the company programme will deliver targeted promotions to from 28 million to 58 million.
We now have In October we purchased The Junction Fund consumers via their mobile devices, and respond a 22% stake in VR holding companies and, for 260 million, which has shown a 10% in real-time to their behaviour.
The data will allow including our direct investments in outlet villages, uplift in value in the four months since our us to understand better consumer shopping we have an effective 29% interest in VRs acquisition.
The fund consists of four retail patterns, which can in turn be used to tailor underlying operating profit in 2012.
On an EPRA parks located in strong catchments, as well future digital communications and promotions basis, Hammersons net income from Value as consented development opportunities to encourage additional visits and sales.
Retail has increased by 54% to 12.6 million.
We have already secured planning permission for the In summary it has been an active year, where MAXIMISINg INCoMe redevelopment of Abbotsinch, Paisley, and we made good progress.
Against a challenging geNeRAtIoN agreed the sale of excess land at Thurrock, backdrop I remain confident about the future Lakeside.
We have also completed the In 2012 we signed 376 leases in respect of over for the Company.
redevelopment of the former UCI unit at 120,000m, at levels above both the estimated Thurrock, which will accommodate the first rental values ERV, and previous passing retail park Nike store in the UK.
Despite the impact of high-profile retail administrations we maintained high occupancy We are making good progress with extensions David Atkins of 97.7% at the year end.
Year-end occupancy and redevelopments across the retail parks CHIeF eXeCutIVe has exceeded our 97% target for each of the portfolio.
We have exchanged contracts with last three years.
Like-for-like net rental income Debenhams for a 5,570m store that will for the year increased by 2.1% on 2011.
We anchor the redevelopment of Elliotts Field, continue to bring new retailers and new HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7
