Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executive Officers review Highlights Strategic actions to enable a return to sustainable organic revenue growth, with increased investment in the business Considerable progress from Excellence in Delivery, with integration aspects extended to 2015 Conservatively geared at 0.9 times net debt EBITDA, after the 275m net cash investment in acquisitions during the year Total Excellence in Delivery savings Strategy customer delivery and operational performance.
Since becoming CEO in June 2012, I have spent In this regard, the EiD programme is critical for considerable time with our customers, suppliers the Group.
It is the catalyst to drive a culture 100m by 2016 and employees, with visits to many of our of continuous improvement and an integrated, operating sites.
I believe our business has many streamlined business.
The programme has been strong positives including innovative and very successful, enabling Cobham to rationalise energetic employees, a breadth of discriminating its footprint, generate productivity improvements technologies, a global geographical presence and improve delivery.
The Group previously giving it access to growing markets across the announced the extension of this programme world and strong operating margins with with further emphasis on streamlining the cost excellent cash generation.
structure and focus on the Groups US facing operations, given the expected decline in US Cobhams strategy is to leverage its innovative Government budgets.
technology, know-how and understanding of customer needs to build and maintain leading The Board believes the successful delivery of this positions in the second and third tiers of the strategy will increase the Groups agility, enabling global defence security and commercial it to shift the emphasis of its portfolio over time aerospace, land and marine markets.
This enables given the cyclical nature of its markets, and us to generate sustainable top and bottom line provide sustainable growth in shareholder value.
growth, relative to the markets in which we The Group is confident that the actions it is taking, operate, while consistently generating good free in aggregate, should enable it to generate modest The Group is confident cash flow, thereby creating shareholder value.
organic growth from 2014 and above mid-single digit organic revenue growth thereafter.
that the actions it is taking, Strategy overview and objectives in aggregate, should enable Technology and know-how are the key Technology investment it to generate modest organic competitive differentiators for the Group, During the year total R&D investment, growth from 2014 and above recognising the importance of providing including customer funded projects was 155.9m customers with solutions that are responsive 2011: 134.5m, including significant development mid-single digit organic to their needs.
The Group is focused on work on aerial refuelling programmes.
PV was revenue growth thereafter understanding and serving the needs of its 75.4m 2011: 75.3m representing 5.3% 2011: current customer base, where it has long term 4.9% of Group revenue.
It will also identify adjacent markets we plan to increase PV investment in 2013 to where its technology and know-how can be generate incremental organic revenue and gain leveraged to meet the needs of new customers, market share.
The renewed focus on customers will securing sustainable, long term positions and enable us to identify priority investment areas and delivering additional growth, with the Group well optimise revenue from the PV programme.
positioned to benefit from faster growing markets.
Operational excellence Cobhams market positions and investment in There has been considerable focus during the innovation must be underpinned by sector leading year on the Groups programme to re-engineer Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Chief Executive Officers review continued During 2012, as a result of the accelerated acquisition doubling Cobhams predominantly achievement of the benefits, the programme commercial SATCOM revenue.
Integration has exceeded the planned level of savings by 6m, progressed well and the business has continued with 14m of year-on-year efficiency savings.
This brings the total annualised benefits to 48m since the programme commenced.
Our focus continues to be on identifying and EiD costs were 38m in the year.
executing attractive acquisition opportunities within our chosen markets and adjacent areas.
The Group is taking further actions to make We have a strong balance sheet and the ability to significant site and headcount rationalisations due successfully execute acquisitions, consistent with to expected volume declines in the US defence our disciplined financial criteria, to create value security market.
The extension of the integration elements of the Overview of the year programme by two years to the end of 2015 will We have delivered a good set of results in market provides additional benefits of 30m per annum conditions that continue to be challenging.
on completion, with the majority of these savings being reinvested into the business.
Our order book at 2.4bn was unchanged on the prior year at constant translation exchange rates.
EiD remains on track to deliver a run-rate of 75m Order intake continued to be strong in Australia, Countering the menace of landmines of annualised year-on-year efficiency savings with significant contracts secured for fly-in fly-out Cobham has been developing radar and radio by 2013, albeit this declines to 70m over the services to the mining sector and an extension to frequency technology for many years to following one to two years due to US Government the Sentinel maritime surveillance contract.
In the counter the menace of landmines and contracting rules.
Expected total costs over the life UK, our joint venture company FB Heliservices improvised explosive devices.
Cobhams of the programme remain 191m, including the received a significant order from the UK Ministry MINEHOUND dual sensor mine detector is used additional integration activity.
of Defence to provide helicopter flying training.
in humanitarian mine detection and removal There were also significant awards in the US operations in Cambodia, Angola and Bosnia.
Investment in management capabilities from Boeing on the Wideband Global Satellite To reinforce the Groups understanding of its programme and from the US Navy for the ALQ-99 markets and strengthen the link between customer Low Band Transmitter, including for the first foreign and streamline operations, EiD, which has needs and technology investment, a new Group military sale customer.
reached the end of its second full year and level position has been established to address made considerable progress.
Alongside financial business development and technology.
Cobham Group organic revenue was broadly flat with benefits, the programme is bringing a number will also focus on further improving its programme growth in commercial and non US defence of operational and customer benefits, including management capabilities.
A new Group level security revenue offset by US defence security, improved productivity, shortened manufacturing position has also been established to provide mostly due to reduced revenue in land markets.
lead times and improved levels of quality.
momentum and visibility on this key competency, Although the underlying trading margin decreased The programme has three components: the which is critical to meeting customer expectations slightly to 19.0%, primarily due to anticipated implementation of a Standard Operating and delivering organic growth.
declines in operating margins in Defence Systems Framework across a set of principal and Aviation Services, underlying EPS increased manufacturing sites Principal Locations : In addition, the delivery of Cobhams strategy 2.6% to 22.63p 2011: 22.05p, including a lower the implementation of a standard Enterprise depends on the right skills and capabilities being underlying tax rate and the full year effect of the Resource Planning ERP IT system: and the in place.
Cobham will increase its investment in 2011 share buy-back.
At constant translation integration of manufacturing facilities.
learning and development to build the essential exchange rates underlying EPS increased 3.2%.
skills and capabilities to drive future growth.
Implementation of the standard production Operating cash conversion was strong at 104% framework is now well underway in all Principal Acquisition investment and, at the year end, we were conservatively Locations, with significant operational Our acquisition strategy is to use the significant geared at 0.9 times net debt EBITDA, after the improvements being seen.
Work on the standard amount of cash generated after dividend 275m net cash investment in acquisitions engineering and project management framework payments and our balance sheet strength to during the year.
is now underway in five sites and the supply chain reinforce our technology and market positions framework in six sites.
Our focus is to bring more balance to our defence security The design phase on the ERP implementation and commercial businesses, promoting long was substantially completed in December 2012, term revenue growth through the cycles.
with focus moving on to building and testing Bob Murphy the system in 2013.
As planned, there were four The 275m acquisition of Thrane & Thrane is a Chief Executive Officer integrations of manufacturing facilities in 2012. significant step towards this, with the June 2012 6 March 2013 8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
