Land Securities has continued to build on a clear plan, Chief Executives playing to its strengths in the London and Retail markets.
statement We have actively managed the risk on our developments, improved the resilience of our portfolio and our balance sheet is in rude health.
We are well placed to protect and create value through a range of market conditions.
This is my first statement to you as Chief Executive.
Building on last years strong results, your company made good progress as tougher market conditions emerged during the year.
We continued to execute our clear plan first articulated in 2009.
We pressed ahead with development, continuing to reduce risk while creating value through pre-lettings, sales and joint ventures.
We repositioned assets through refurbishments and we restructured leases.
We remained disciplined on debt, using the proceeds of sales to fund development and other capital expenditure.
Our balance sheet is strong and our position has been enhanced by our 1.1bn five-year revolving credit facility arranged in December 2011.
This should prove to be a valuable source of competitive advantage to exploit opportunities within and outside our portfolio.
Revenue profit is up 9.0% with adjusted diluted earnings per share up 8.5% on the back of higher net rental income and lower interest costs.
Adjusted diluted NAV per share is up 4.5% to 863p.
Our Total Business Return was 7.9% and Total Shareholder Return was 0.7%.
Our Total Shareholder Return compares to a return of 4.0% for the FTSE 100 and -3.2% for the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
We delivered an ungeared total property return of 7.7%, compared to 6.3% for the IPD Quarterly Universe.
This comprises an income yield of 5.0%, surplus of net proceeds from sales of 4.3% and a valuation surplus on the combined portfolio of 2.0%.
The total property return of our London Portfolio was 9.2%, which underperformed its IPD sector benchmark by 2.5%.
Our Retail Portfolio total property return was 5.8%, which outperformed its IPD sector benchmark by 2.4%.
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE RELATIVE We took advantage of the liquid investment market to sell income producing TO IPD UNGEARED TOTAL RETURN assets, on average at 4.3% above the March 2011 valuations.
While we are actively 12 MONTHS ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 CHART 11 seeking to acquire new assets, we remain of the view that patience will be required to nd the right opportunities at the right price.
In addition the development 12.5 11.9 pipeline will dilute earnings in the near term, although it is set to deliver earnings 9.6 growth in the medium term.
With these impacts in mind and our aim to deliver 7.7 a progressive dividend, we are recommending a fourth quarter payment of 7.4p, 6.9 6.7 6.3 6.0 taking the total dividend for the year to 29.0p, up 2.8%.
4.1 2.4 Uncertain market London Central Retail Shopping Total The retail sector is undergoing a period of unprecedented change.
Certain retailers, 1 2 1 ofce London retail warehouses centres portfolio locations and assets have the potential to thrive.
Others continue to lose ground.
Land Securities Changing consumer needs, tastes and behaviours are determining the winners and IPD Sector weighted benchmark losers.
Dominant centres in the right locations remain popular and a good mix of IPD Quarterly Universe retail and leisure continues to attract visitors.
In contrast, many locations have empty 1.
Land Securities total return would be higher by 0.3% for London ofces and 0.2% for total portfolio if adjusted for capital extracted from Queen Annes Gate, SW1 through the 2009 bond issue.
space which may never be re-occupied by retailers.
Internet sales are winning market 2.
Includes food stores for Land Securities.
While this is hitting some retailers hard, we saw opportunities in the year to help others integrate the online world into physical stores.
We also developed smart initiatives with online businesses such as Amazon and Ocado.
The effects of the structural shift in retail have been heightened by uncertainty in the economy.
The year saw weaker demand from consumers and downward pressure on rents.
Rent reviews, historically one of our engines of growth, are currently stuck in neutral.
Low confidence limited development activity and property owners have had to look to active asset management to generate value.
This plays to our strengths.
Our portfolio is structured to meet the changing requirements of those retailers best able to compete in these conditions.
For example, since 2010 we have created 2 47,700m of new space for Primark, the John Lewis Partnership and Sainsburys.
32 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Chief Executives statement In London, uncertainty in the eurozone weighed heavily on business confidence, LAND SECURITIES DEVELOPMENTS CHART 12 leading to lower demand than expected for ofce space.
However, particularly low 2012 levels of development, coupled with the high number of lease expiries due from 2013 and evolving occupier needs mean the market will see supply-constrained 123 Victoria Street Wellington House trading property conditions.
Due to subdued business confidence, these conditions are taking 2013 longer to appear than first thought, but once here they should continue for longer.
62 Buckingham Gate Trinity Leeds 185-221 Buchanan Street We expect value creation to come from active asset management and well-timed, 2014 well-located mixed use development, particularly in the West End where the majority of our development pipeline is focused.
20 Fenchurch Street 1&2 New Ludgate Meteor Centre, Derby 2015 A plan for every asset Kingsgate House Our primary purpose is to grow value for shareholders, not simply collect rent.
2016 Asset management must balance income and capital growth.
We plan the future 2018 Victoria Circle 1 New Street Square of each asset carefully and look for ways to add value through the cycle.
For example, 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 this year we refurbished assets and restructured leases at a number of properties Total development cost TDC at completion m such as 40 Strand, WC2 and Southwark Bridge Road, SE1 to ensure they did not fall empty in a slow market.
Under construction No asset is sacred.
If we believe money invested in an asset is likely to work harder Proposed Planning secured estimated TDC elsewhere, we will sell the property and re-allocate the capital.
We demonstrated this with our disposals of Park House, W1, last year and 110 Cannon Street, EC4, Arundel Great Court, WC2, Eland House, SW1, St Johns Centre, Liverpool and Commercial property accounts for around 18% of the UKs carbon dioxide Corby town centre this year.
We are well aware of the need for action and were the first in our sector to have an in-house energy team, and the first to have a dedicated environment Well-timed development pipeline team.
We have targets to reduce our own carbon emissions and are keen to help our occupiers do the same.
We are not interested in competitive corporate responsibility.
Our development schemes are creating the right spaces in the right locations to Measurement and targets are helpful, but we are looking to nd pragmatic solutions meet the needs of successful businesses.
Trinity Leeds is set to transform the city to real issues, not simply to tick boxes in a report.
We are engaged with Government centre.
At 185-221 Buchanan Street in Glasgow we are creating contemporary to look for consistency in policy so that real progress can be made.
retail space on one of Britains busiest shopping streets.
20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, right in the heart of the insurance district, will be the first of the new tower Looking ahead developments in the City to complete.
Wellington House, SW1, will complete this summer with all 59 apartments already pre-sold.
These schemes underline Francis stated that recovery in UK commercial property would involve ripples, our view that as well as risk there is opportunity in the current environment.
We continue to hold this view.
Our plan for value creation We will continue to manage our pipeline carefully.
In Retail we secure was never dependent on employment growth, so we are not overly exposed to the significant levels of pre-lettings before we start construction.
In London we have present environment.
Conditions may deteriorate over the next 12 months.
For example, at 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4 formerly 30 Old Bailey may pick up.
Either way, we are well placed to respond.
We have a strong balance and 60 Ludgate Hill, demolition work has completed and we can time delivery to sheet with plenty of repower, giving us the ability to make acquisitions and press suit market conditions or pre-let demand.
ahead with oven-ready developments at the appropriate time.
We are managing our risk at two major projects in the capital through joint We believe the structural shift in retail will continue, with the strongest venture partnerships.
Last year it was 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3.
This year we retailers nding more opportunities for expansion and weaker traders falling formed a 50:50 joint venture with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to further behind.
The same is true for locations and property assets.
In addition, 2 own and develop Victoria Circle, SW1.
This 84,670m scheme is a key part of growth in leisure and internet sales together with the rapid emergence of mobile our plans to transform Victoria into the thriving central London area it should be.
technology being employed by consumers will further separate the winners and losers in this sector.
We will continue to rene our portfolio to ensure it meets the A strong, quick-thinking team changing needs of successful retailers.
Despite the current lull in financial services, London remains the stand-out Just as every asset has a plan, so every team and individual within the Company vibrant global centre that constantly reinvents itself.
Sectors such as high-end has a clear set of priorities.
Building on the work of my predecessor Francis Salway, fashion, business services, insurance and technology are particularly active.
we will continually look for ways to create shareholder value by being better at New businesses from overseas continue to arrive.
Corporates require efficient, making and managing space for customers.
We will encourage a culture where contemporary buildings that reect their values and handle the demands brought outperformance is expected and where we are judged on the value we create.
by higher occupational densities than ever before.
Much of the existing stock will We should not be afraid to make mistakes, but learn from them when they occur.
not meet their requirements or their expectations.
We are well placed to respond.
Take Brand Empire: this was an innovative way to address a difficult leasing market at the time.
It didnt work as we hoped, so we acted quickly to close it down and we will apply the lessons learnt.
Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility plays a vital role in how we create and protect value.
Robert Noel We can only gain a licence to operate from Local Authorities if people trust us to Chief Executive make a positive difference.
We want local communities to be pleased that Land Securities is operating in their area.
We want to be recognised by Local Authorities as the best property partner to work with in terms of economic contribution, social benets and the environment.
