28 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Chief Executives statement We have a clear, focused strategy that is delivering value and has created a well-balanced and sustainable business model with significant opportunities to deliver continued growth.
Focus on performance Reported revenue has grown by 6.8%, or 7.9% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and disposals, organic growth has remained strong at 5.4%, driven by further good performances in North America and Fast Growing & Emerging.
During the year, we have delivered new business growth of 9%, driven by both increased outsourcing in some parts of the world and further embedding best practices in MAP 1 client sales and marketing across Compass.
Our retention rate remains high at 94.3%, although we have seen a slight softening in the second half as business closures in Europe have increased.
Like for like revenue growth of 2.1% has been driven primarily by price increases, reflecting the ongoing impact of food cost inflation.
We continue to mitigate the impact as far as possible through MAP 3 cost of food initiatives such as menu planning and supplier rationalisation.
Our contract structures typically enable us to pass on the remaining inflationary pressures.
By region, like for like revenue growth has been positive in North America, strong in Fast Growing & Emerging and flat in Europe & Japan.
Like for like volume growth of 0.1% also reflects a mixed picture globally.
We saw a positive trend in Fast Growing & Emerging and a flat performance in North America, whilst the difficult economic conditions in Europe & Japan resulted in increasingly negative like for like volume trends through the year.
Although like for like volume is driven in part by macro economic conditions, and employment levels in particular, we have retained our focus on the many ways through which we can increase consumer participation and spend through MAP 2 consumer sales and marketing.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 29 I Underlying operating profit increased by 8.8% on a constant currency Organic growth, supplemented by acquisitions basis, with the underlying operating profit margin remaining flat at 6.9%.
Quality and sustainable organic growth remains our priority but we will Total constant currency growth of 95 million comprised 64 million look to make infill acquisitions where they deliver value.
We seek out from organic growth and a 31 million contribution from acquisitions.
small to medium-sized infill acquisitions in food and support services We have continued to generate considerable efficiencies through in our existing geographies, bringing on board quality businesses and applying the MAP framework, which are both being reinvested in strong management teams.
We also continue to target financial returns exciting growth opportunities around the world and helping us to ahead of our cost of capital by the end of the second year.
From 2008 manage the effects of difficult economic conditions in Europe.
to 2010, we spent a total of 550 million on acquisitions and, in the second year, we have, on average, achieved this.
In the third year, these Strategy returns have continued to rise.
Focus on food Ongoing drive for efficiencies Food remains our core business.
The structural opportunity in the We remain committed to our relentless focus on generating efficiencies outsourced food service market, estimated at 200 billion, is a key through applying the MAP framework.
We believe that we are only part growth driver.
With an overall penetration rate of less than 50%, of the way through the journey to drive further productivity in our cost it represents a significant opportunity.
We believe the benefits of of food MAP 3 and our in unit costs MAP 4, as well as being able to outsourcing will become ever more apparent as economic conditions leverage the overhead base by controlling our above unit costs MAP 5. and legislative changes put increasing pressure on organisations The ongoing generation of efficiencies helps underpin our expectation budgets.
Sectors such as Healthcare & Seniors and Education are of further margin progression.
significantly underpenetrated and Business & Industry, whilst more Uses of cash and balance sheet priorities highly penetrated, is still attractive due to its scale, growth and, in some The Groups cash flow generation remains excellent and it will countries, the fragmented nature of the market.
As one of the largest continue to be a key part of the business model.
It enables us to reward providers in all of our sectors, we are well placed to benefit from Shareholders in parallel with reinvesting for growth and making infill these trends.
Our commitment to an efficient balance sheet remains Growing support and multi services strong and we continue to target strong investment grade credit ratings, Support and multi services are a growing part of the business as we which we see as Baa1 with Moodys and Awith Standard & Poors.
continue to win new contracts and expand the range of services we In light of this, we have announced a further 400 million share buyback supply to our existing clients.
They have grown from just over 1 billion programme for the 2013 calendar year.
This will follow the current of revenue in 2006 to over 4 billion today, now representing 24% of 500 million share buyback, which we expect to complete by the end Group revenue.
The largest sector is Defence, Offshore & Remote, of the 2012 calendar year.
In addition, we remain committed to growing although we also see exciting opportunities in Business & Industry, the dividend broadly in line with constant currency earnings and Healthcare & Seniors and Education.
This is a complex market and maintaining a cash cover of two times.
there are significant differences in client buying behaviour across countries, sectors and sub sectors.
Our approach is therefore low risk Summary and outlook and incremental, with strategies developed on a country by country Compass has had a good year.
North America and Fast Growing basis.
We will continue to build our capabilities organically, & Emerging, which account for two thirds of Group revenue, have supplemented by infill acquisitions.
delivered strong organic revenue growth and our operating profit margin in North America has reached 8%.
Looking ahead to next year, Geographic spread and emerging markets the pipeline of new contracts is encouraging and we expect to see The Group has evolved significantly over the last 10 years from a further good performances in these regions.
predominantly European-based business with just over 10 billion of revenue to the nearly 17 billion global business today.
Over time, We anticipate that economic conditions in Europe will remain we expect the split of revenue to continue to evolve.
challenging, with like for like volume under ongoing pressure.
However, our core business remains solid and we are taking action to re-base In line with the management changes we announced at our full year our business in Southern Europe and ensure we are best placed results in November 2011, we now operate our business in three to capitalise on the many opportunities to drive future revenue and segments: North America, Europe & Japan and Fast Growing & margin growth.
In simple terms, the constituents of the three segments comprise countries that are at similar stages of development and The combination of strong trading in North America and Fast Growing display similar dynamics.
& Emerging, together with the European action plans, underpins our North America 44% of Group revenue will remain the principal confidence in delivering against 2013 market expectations.
growth engine for the Group.
We have a market leading business, In the longer term, we remain very positive about the opportunities which delivers high levels of growth and steady margin expansion.
to grow the business and we are well positioned to capitalise on The outsourcing culture is vibrant and the addressable market is the significant structural growth potential in both food and support significant.
We are well positioned, with a good client base in all services globally.
We also expect to generate more cost efficiencies, of our core sectors, and a strong management team.
supporting our belief that we will make further progress in the operating The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe & Japan 37% of profit margin.
Group revenue are solid: however, we expect economic conditions there to remain challenging in the short term.
We are therefore introducing measures to reduce cost and make our operations more competitive for the future, building a better business on the good foundations in place.
We still see many opportunities to drive growth in revenue and margin.
Fast Growing & Emerging, which now comprises close to 20% Richard Cousins of Group revenue, is an increasingly important part of our business.
Group Chief Executive We have a strong presence in key markets such as Australia, Brazil 21 November 2012 and Turkey, and we are growing rapidly in India and China.
With the potential they offer, we are investing in their growth.
As the economies of these countries remain buoyant and the trend to outsourcing increases, we would hope to see high levels of growth maintained well into the future.
30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I 4 Business model After health and safety, which is our number one operational priority, the greatest day-to-day focus in our business is the quality of our food and service.
Consumers are increasingly discerning and we must do a great job for them.
Pr v Culinary expertise sits at the heart of who we are, shaping our wider business development, people skills, buying and marketing activities.
We may serve over 4 billion meals a year, but every one has to meet individual tastes.
The recipes and menus our award winning chefs create, the high quality ingredients and the skills of our service teams all come together on that lunch plate, in that sandwich, in that cup of coffee or on that tray of canaps.
We are committed to serving great tasting, authentic and nutritious food that exceeds the expectations of our consumers.
We wouldnt be able to achieve this without our employees.
Great people give great service and so we put the development of our people as one of our top priorities, providing opportunities for our employees to develop their potential and abilities.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 31 I After health and safety, which is our number one operational 8 priority, the greatest day-to-day focus in our business is the Tonnes of salt taken out quality of our food and service.
Consumers are increasingly of our UK supply chain discerning and we must do a great job for them.
d v Our pledge to the UK Responsibility Deal South African Chefs Academy Recognising the importance of our role feeding We recognise that in todays world it can be millions of people every day, Compass has particularly difficult for young adults to enter signed up to all of the pledges of the UK the workforce and receive the necessary Governments Responsibility Deal, the only training and skills development to kick-start food service company to have done so.
Across our business, we offer four pledges are introducing calorie labelling, many apprenticeship opportunities, and reducing the amount of salt in food, eliminating a great example is the Chefs Academy, artificial trans fats and reducing the calories in operated by our South African business for meals.
We have already taken eight tonnes of young, unemployed people of all abilities.
salt out of the business and we are on track Every year, more than 55 students join the to introduce Guideline Daily Amounts labelling Academy and, following successful completion to over 2,000 workplace restaurants.
of the programme, over 90% of participants are placed in permanent employment.
The Chefs Academy creates a trained talent pipeline in a country battling with a severe skills shortage.
