chief executives report This has been a year of solid progress for Shaftesbury, At 30 September 2012 our portfolio produced annualised reflected in good growth in our income and profits, and a rise current income of 80.9 million, an increase over the year of inthe value of our portfolio.
Eliminating the impact of acquisitions, on a like-for-like basis rents receivable rose by 2.5% this year, which Nationally there are signs of economic stability but no early follows last years exceptional increase of 7.5%.
Our rents have prospects of a return of sustained economic growth.
In risen through a combination of lettings, lease renewals, rent contrast, Londons West End continues to be busy and reviews and schemes but their effect has been offset by a prosperous.
Sustained good demand and occupancy for all our planned increase in vacant space, particularly in Carnaby, as uses underpin our growing rental income, which this year has we prepare for major new schemes.
risen by 5.6 million to 81.0 million.
Importantly the ERV of our portfolio increased over the year by EPRA adjusted profit for the year increased by 2.0 million to 7.7 million to 99.9 million, of which acquisitions contributed 31.2 million.
EPRA adjusted diluted net assets per share at 2.2 million.
The like-for-like increase in ERVs was 6.0%, the year end stood at 4.98, an increase of 7.6% over the year including 2.0 million from the two large new Carnaby after payment of dividends.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE The reversionary potential of our portfolio now stands at 19.0 Our portfolio has been valued at 30 September 2012 at 1,828.2 million, of which 17.0 million is attributable to our wholly million, producing a surplus on revaluation of 90.2 million.
The owned portfolio and 2.0 million arises in the Longmartin joint ungeared capital value return was 5.5%, which contrasts with a ventures holdings.
Of the total reversion, 4.6 million will be decline of 3.1% recorded by the IPD Monthly Index over the added to current income on the expiry of contracted rent free same period.
Our portfolio delivered a total return of 9.7% periods and 6.8 million will be crystallised on the letting of compared with 3.5% reported by the IPD Monthly Index.
space currently vacant which includes schemes now in hand.
7.6 million of the reversionary potential should be realised The objective of our management strategy is to deliver through the normal cycle of rent reviews and future lettings, sustained growth in rental income which is the fundamental bringing rents to market levels currently estimated by our driver of long-term growth in property values.
steadily rising income over many years and this year is no exception.
Shops, restaurants and leisure uses account for 69% of total ERV and 67% of the reversion which is not yet contracted.
In the PORTFOLIO REVERSIONARY POTENTIAL M West End there is a long history of sustained and growing demand for these uses but their availability is restricted, partly as a result of local planning policies.
Our experience is that in Current income ERV % reversion our locations demand and rental values for these uses are not cyclical, which gives us confidence we shall realise their 23% reversionary potential.
At the same time, we expect our 19% management strategies will continue to deliver long-term 23% growth in rental values.
24% 33% The equivalent yield attributed by our valuers to our wholly owned portfolio at 30 September 2012 was 4.79%, compared with 4.93% at the last year end and 4.92% at 31 March 2012.
99.9 92.2 The overall 13 basis points improvement in yields in the second 83.9 80.2 80.9 78.3 77.5 half of the year reflects strong sustained investor demand for 68.3 63.4 secure, well-let investments in our locations, particularly from 60.4 those who are less reliant on debt to finance their purchases.
There are no signs of this demand abating.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 page 08 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 chief executives report OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION chief executives report continued CAPITAL EXPENDITURE DTZ, the valuers of our wholly owned portfolio, have again commented in their report on the concentration of a high The capital expenditure we bear is generally modest in relation proportion of our properties in adjacent or adjoining locations to the overall size and value of our portfolio.
Low costs of within our principal villages and the dominance of retail and obsolescence in the buildings we own is an important factor in restaurant uses.
They advise that, as a consequence of these the good long-term returns our portfolio delivers.
unusual factors, some prospective purchasers may consider In the case of our dominant uses of retail, restaurant and that parts of the wholly owned portfolio, when combined, may leisure, we provide space in shell form and tenants are have a greater value than that currently reflected in the responsible for the costs of fitting out and obsolescence.
We valuation that we have adopted in our results.
also find obsolescence costs are modest in our residential This year, Carnaby, which represents 33% by value of our holdings, as we create apartments to a high standard at the portfolio, delivered a capital value return of 7.3%, driven by outset.
progress on two important new schemes and a growing This year capital expenditure totalled 14.9 million of which reversion across all uses.
Our wholly owned holdings in Covent 13.0 million arose in the wholly owned portfolio and 1.9 Garden 28% of our portfolio returned capital growth of 4.5%, million arose in the Longmartin joint venture.
The total benefiting from the completion and letting of a number of represents 0.8% of the portfolios valuation.
The range of schemes, strong demand for restaurants and improved schemes during the year included extending retail and residential values.
Chinatown 23% of our portfolio grew in restaurant space, creation of new apartments, refurbishing value by 5.3% largely as a result of uplifts in restaurant values, offices, and contributions to public realm improvements across the dominant use in this location.
As in previous years, an our villages.
At any one time we usually have over 30 schemes absence of transactional evidence in these fully let holdings at various stages from initial ideas, seeking planning approval, tempered ERV growth.
awaiting vacant possession or under construction.
Our holdings in Soho now 6% of our portfolio delivered a With our concentrated ownerships, individual schemes capital value return of 0.9%.
This modest performance is frequently have a beneficial impact on adjacent holdings, unsurprising as our long-term plans to assemble ownerships bringing cumulative and compound improvements to an area.
and bring improvements to this busy but run down area are still in their early stages.
In Charlotte Street 3% of our portfolio, values grew by 3.7% as rental tones for restaurants improved and residential values rose.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE - M WHOLLY OWNED PORTFOLIO Longmartins portfolio delivered a capital value return of 5.7%.
The equivalent yield attributed by its valuers was 4.73%, an % of portfolio improvement of 7 basis points over the year 30 September 2011: 4.80%.
Current income has improved as rent free periods have expired and we have seen ERV growth of 4.3% across its mixed use portfolio.
13.0 12.0 11.4 ACQUISITIONS 10.2 9.3 As we have noted previously, other owners in our prosperous 0.9% 0.9% 0.9% 0.8% areas are understandably reluctant to sell assets which they 0.8% will find difficult to replace.
When properties do come to the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 market there is always considerable interest from a variety of potential bidders, often financed with substantial equity rather than debt.
We continue to be very focused in the locations we invest in and the types of building we seek to acquire.
We apply strict criteria when considering potential acquisitions to assess their particular potential as well as their impact on our existing holdings.
This year our acquisitions totalled 44.0 million, in line with the average level in the previous four years of 46.0 million.
Of this years purchases 29.5 million was in Soho, 8.9 million in Charlotte Street, 3.1 million in Chinatown and 2.5 million in Covent Garden.
Our acquisitions included six restaurants and bars, fifteen shops, 3,500 sq.
ft. of offices and eleven apartments.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 09 chief executives report chief executives report continued Fourteen of our 424 wholly owned apartments were vacant and DEMAND AND OCCUPANCY ready to let at year end, reflecting the good level of occupancy Demand for all uses, and across all of our locations, has been we have seen throughout the year.
The total includes 38 generally strong throughout the year.
As we anticipated, there apartments, with an ERV of 0.8 million, which were being was a reduction in enquiries during July and August but refurbished or were under construction.
interest is now back to an extremely good level.
Occupancy levels across the portfolio have remained high throughout the In the Longmartin joint venture, 13,000 sq.
New commercial lettings totalled 5.2 million, including 0.8 million were under offer at the year end and have now 1.6million from our scheme at 36 39 Carnaby Street which been let.
One shop ERV 0.1 million was vacant.
The ERV of commercial space in the wholly owned portfolio VACANT COMMERCIAL SPACE - % OF COMMERCIAL held for or under refurbishment at the year end amounted to ERV WHOLLY OWNED PORTFOLIO 2.6 million, equivalent to 3.2% of commercial ERV.
Of this, 0.8million related to the first of our schemes in Fouberts 7% Place in Carnaby, which is now under way.
6% Carnaby Following completion of the development of 36 39 Carnaby schemes Street in 2011, the level of vacant space under refurbishment 5% fell but has risen recently with the commencement of the first 4% Held for or under scheme in Fouberts Place.
We expect the level to rise further refurbishment as we start our second scheme here at the beginning of 2013.
3% Available commercial space in our wholly owned portfolio has 2% averaged around 3% of commercial ERV over recent years and 2012 is no exception.
1% Available to let At the year end the rental value of available vacant commercial 0% space in the wholly owned portfolio amounted to 2.6 million, representing 3.2% of commercial ERV, of which 0.5 million 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 was under offer.
Five large shops rental value over 100,000 per annum with a total ERV of 1.0 million were vacant, three of which are now under offer and we have interest in the remaining two.
VACANT COMMERCIAL SPACE AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2012 WHOLLY OWNED PORTFOLIO Restaurants % of Held for or under refurbishment Shops and leisure Offices Total total ERV Major Carnaby schemes ERV - million 0.8 - - 0.8 1.0% 8-- 8 Area - 000 sq.
ft. 21 4 7 32 Number of units 21 7 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 10 chief executives report OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION chief executives report continued We are committed to further investment to improve the public LOOKING AHEAD realm in our locations.
We have always held the view that the greatest benefits to London of this years major public events will be felt in the In the period leading up to the 2007 2008 banking crisis we put years ahead.
The hosting of what are widely regarded to be the in place debt facilities which have proved to be highly beneficial.
most successful Olympics and Paralympics in their history has Inevitably, as some of these facilities come closer to expiry in greatly enhanced the profile and reputation of London and the 2016, they will be replaced with arrangements which are more West End across the world.
The ability to stage successfully expensive than those we currently enjoy.
With our very secure such complex events is an achievement in which we should all assets we are well placed to attract long-term finance, as we take pride.
did in December 2011 with the 120 million 15-year facility we raised in the Longmartin joint venture.
In order to take It is no coincidence that since mid-September the West End advantage of long-term rates, now at historically low levels, we has become even busier and we are seeing unusually high are considering the early refinancing of some of our current levels of interest from retailers, restaurateurs and other arrangements.
Although this will impact our profits in the businesses seeking to come to our areas.
short-term it will maintain our finances on a stable long-term Against this background of strong demand, we are continuing footing.
to identify and advance numerous schemes to improve the Over the last 26 years we have assembled an exceptional accommodation we offer, particularly with important projects portfolio in the prosperous heart of one of the worlds most inCarnaby which are now in hand.
In the short-term these exciting cities.
We have a small, highly committed team with a projects will temper the growth in our income, particularly in long experience of the West End, and we are supported by an the period to 2014, but they will bring important benefits in the equally experienced and enthusiastic team of advisors who medium-term.
share our philosophy and goals.
Together we have an innovative Inevitably, in such prosperous locations as ours, opportunities approach to the management of our portfolio, and I am to add to our holdings will continue to be limited.
However, we confident our business will continue to evolve and respond to maintain our focused and disciplined approach to acquisitions the opportunities and challenges which lie ahead.
which have always been opportunistic and difficult to predict.
The West End continues to attract substantial investment Brian Bickell through public projects such as Crossrail as well as private Chief Executive investment in major schemes to develop new buildings and improve areas around us.
We welcome all such initiatives and 29 November 2012 commitments which bring more people visitors, a growing working population and residents to the West End.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 11 chief executives report page 12 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 13 chief executives report
