04 Chief Executives Review Crodas record results underline the resilience of our unique and highly innovative business model, focused on fast growing niche markets and high value products where we can utilise our global reach.
Croda employs 75 3,288 of our UK employees participate in our SAYE scheme or Share Incentive Plan people in 34 countries around the world Business Performance Geography It has been a busy and very enjoyable first year at the helm as Chief Geographically, underlying sales from continuing operations moved Executive, and I am pleased to report that Croda has again delivered forward in all of our four main regions with the strongest progress being a strong set of results.
This was achieved despite a weak macro global achieved in the USA where sales grew 6% and in Latin America where environment, driven largely by the European debt crisis, scal cliff sales grew by 4%.
Sales in Asia were 3% ahead, held back by the concerns in the USA and a noticeable economic slowdown in China.
slowdown in China and our continued withdrawal from undifferentiated The continuing strong demand for our products bears witness to the products in both our Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals effectiveness of our strategy, focusing on differentiation, innovation portfolios.
Europe held up relatively well given the lower overall market and investment for a sustainable future.
growth and the exchange rate headwinds, particularly acute in the second half of the year, ending the year only 0.5% behind 2011.
Strategy We have made significant progress in a number of areas this year.
Sustainability Separating Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals has During the year, whilst the business has continued to grow, we have allowed greater management focus in both segments, which is key to a made excellent progress in respect of a number of our sustainability continued improvement in their performance.
The disposal of Cremona targets, notably in our reduced use of energy and water along with was an important step forward in making Industrial Chemicals more a significant reduction in the amount of waste we have sent to landll.
differentiated and market focused, with a growing emphasis on speciality Our separate Sustainability Report provides detailed information on this products.
We have created a fully resourced Enterprise Technology group progress and our continued commitment to sustainability.
charged with identifying the next generation of technologies and We were delighted to receive recognition of our achievements in the accelerating their capture, and this has already achieved two important latest report from Canadian company Corporate Knights, where we successes with the acquisitions of IRB plant stem cells and Innovachem were ranked 25th in the Global Top 100 Most Sustainable Corporations specialised emollients, both with rich patent portfolios which we will in the World.
We were the highest ranking UK based company in this consolidate and develop in our Consumer Care sector.
To drive even survey, providing independent testimony to the effectiveness of fully faster growth in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America, we integrating sustainability into our approach at all of our operations, have bolstered our commercial teams by signicantly increasing resource both manufacturing and non-manufacturing.
We have also started to expand our R&D and manufacturing presence in both regions and this will continue in 2013 and beyond.
05 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The continuing strong demand for our products bears witness to the effectiveness of our strategy, focusing on differentiation, innovation and investment for a sustainable future.
People Our people play a vital role in the success of our business.
Croda employs around 3,300 people in 34 countries across the world.
They all share an overriding commitment to working hard and delivering great results by putting our customers first.
We have a terric talent pool and I look forward to seeing our people grow and develop in the organisation.
Crodas continuing business success depends on our ability to attract and retain outstanding individuals who are passionate about personal and business development, and who want to make a significant contribution to the future of Croda.
I am pleased to report that our staff retention rates around the world are at record levels.
The fact that we have a highly motivated workforce who want to buy into the Croda story is reected in the fact that more than 75% of our UK employees participate in our SAYE scheme or Share Incentive Plan, a performance that saw Croda honoured for best overall performance in fostering employee share ownership at the 2012 IFS Proshare awards.
I am grateful to all my colleagues for their contribution both individually and as team players.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive
