CSR in review The year 2012 has seen CSR for mor for more e on risk factors on risk factors accelerate its transformation from see pages see pages s 45 to 50 45 to 50 being a handset Bluetooth-centric to see our business and to see our business and financial financial company, to becoming a global leader r re eview view see pages see pages s 14 to 44 14 to 44 in creating multifunction platforms for a series of markets such as Automotive, Imaging and Voice & Music, with exciting platform opportunities in Bluetooth Smart and Indoors Location.
This shift in business emphasis has been in line with our long-standing strategy of focusing on end markets Chief Executives review with growth potential where we have leading positions with integrated and differentiated technology platforms.
We believe that this will enable us to achieve sustainable growth with higher margins and returns.
Platforms are more complex and sophisticated than individual components, and generally contain broad functionality to directly enhance our customers end products.
As a result of this strategic drive, CSR derived the majority of its 2012 revenue from its higher margin platform business, contributing 60% of revenues in 2012 compared with 49% in 2011.
This trend is expected to continue as we focus on the development of ever increasing integrated solutions with multiple features, which our customers can use to support and improve their products for end users.
CSR has transformed itself from a Samsung Agreement CSRs transaction with Samsung provider of Bluetooth components in represented a large part of our strategic transformation and realised a handsets into a broadly diversi ed signi cant return for CSRs investment platform provider, addressing attractive in handset connectivity and handset location, delivering substantial growth markets.
On completion of the transaction on 4 October 2012, CSR transferred to Samsung the resources devoted to Total revenue Total spend on R&D the development of the Companys handset connectivity technology, as $1,025m $ 290.4m well as a signi cant proportion of the resources dedicated to the 2011: $ 845m 2011: $ 241.8m development of handset location technology.
In addition, it granted to Samsung a world-wide perpetual, royalty-free, non-exclusive licence of CSRs intellectual property rights in its handset connectivity and handset location technology, for use in the markets for mobile devices.
CSR also transferred to Samsung 21 US patents together with their international counterparts, which Samsung has licensed back to us in perpetuity on a royalty free basis.
We and Samsung have agreed certain conditions, as part of which we have agreed not to www.
com 0 8 0 9 compete with Samsung in handset and silicon tuners business lines In our Auto business area, we began connectivity and in the speci c eld of acquired with Zoran where we have shipping our next-generation location but not Indoors Location discontinued investment, in addition to SiRFprimaII 40nm automotive for which Samsung have acquired handset connectivity and handset infotainment and navigation platform in intellectual property rights.
The location business lines which comprise 2012 and we have a growing pipeline of headline price paid by Samsung was the revenue streams retained by the Tier One automotive in-dash design wins $310 million, subject to adjustment, of Group as part of the terms of the for this platform product.
At the same which $31 million was paid into escrow Samsung agreement.
time, our autograde Wi-Fi solutions have to meet any potential future claims by started ramping into volume production Samsung.
Product development with a number of customers.
The transaction with Samsung has Samsung also invested $34.4 million in enabled CSR to increase its focus on While our Consumer business area is us, signaling their con dence in us its R&D investment in five areas in under pressure from the increasing going forward and demonstrating their support of delivering our strategy of adoption of improved quality cameras intent to work with us on a smooth offering platforms from a position of in smartphones, we are seeking to take transfer and transition of technology market leadership.
These areas are: our established technology into new and people.
As we explained at the Automotive Infotainment: Imaging: end market areas, such as surveillance, time when we sought shareholder Voice & Music: Bluetooth Smart and webcams, and automotive drive approval for the transaction, there is Indoors Location.
We expect that these recorders.
ongoing engagement between areas represent markets with important CSR and Samsung to support the growth opportunities.
In our more nascent markets, we have separation of the handset operations increased our range of Bluetooth Smart and its integration into Samsung under In order to be at the forefront of our low energy single-mode platform a transitional service agreement.
chosen markets, we have invested products, and have extended the range $290.4 million on research and of ineld testing for our indoors Part of this engagement includes development during 2012, an increase location products, which are based on working with Samsung to nalise the of $48.6 million on 2011, bringing our SiRF Fusion technology.
development of the CSR9800 Wi-Fi 18 new products to the market during Bluetooth combination chip, which the year.
We have seen further Business group performance CSR expects to utilise for its enhancements to the processes Moving onto financial performance, in Automotive Infotainment applications we deploy and which underpin the the first six months of the year we saw and Samsung will use in its handset evaluation of new ideas from their an increase in revenues of 38% business.
There are pre-determined beginning through their development to compared with the same period in milestones for this project which are market launch.
We consider this to 2011, with Zoran revenues included linked to a clawback of up to be an area of continuous improvement from September 2011 only.
We saw $10 million by Samsung from CSR and evolution in support of delivering growth within a buoyant Voice & Music under certain circumstances and a our goals and in enabling us to sustain market, continued strong performance payment of $10 million by Samsung to leading positions in dynamic and by the Automotive Infotainment CSR linked to the shipping of competitive markets.
business, while Handsetderived commercial quantities of CSR9800 on revenues continued to decline.
Looking at our product areas in more detail, I am delighted that we continued In the second half of the year, we Company Structure our market leadership in the area of achieved a revenue increase of 9% Prior to completion of the Samsung Bluetooth stereo audio.
This market is compared to the same period in 2011, transaction, we reported based on four growing rapidly, as more and more which again re ected the inclusion of business groups: Auto, Home, Mobile people carry their music in digital form Zoran revenues from September 2011. and Legacy Products.
Auto comprised on their smartphone, or other mobile Voice & Music continued to be strong, as the Automotive Infotainment and PND digital music players and stream their was our Automotive Infotainment business lines.
The largest business music to stereo headsets, sound bars business.
We saw weakness in line in Home was Voice & Music or speakerdocks.
An increasing Consumer, primarily due to a decline comprising Bluetooth enabled mono proportion of these devices can in Camera revenues, while Legacy and stereo audio.
Home also included connect wirelessly through Bluetooth.
revenues fell in line with our expectations.
Gaming gaming controller hardware We had around 950 SIG Bluetooth and Document Imaging printers, special interest group stereo end Total revenue for the year was a record hardware and software.
Mobile product listings in the year.
$1,025 million, up by 21% on 2011, but comprised handset connectivity and a decline of 1% when compared to location, and cameras.
Legacy An important contributor to our CSR on a standalone pre-Zoran Products comprised the Zoran home success in this area is our acquisition basis.
market-leading aptX audio codec technology, which we acquired in for mor for more e on our business model on our business model Following completion of the Samsung 2010.
It now has 120 licencees, a see page 14 see page 14 transaction, we have two business strong increase from 52 at the same groups re ecting our new structure: time last year.
aptX is a good example for mor for more about our Samsung e about our Samsung Core, and Legacy products.
Core of an incremental acquisition which transaction visit transaction visit comprises Auto, Consumer which supports speci c features and www www.
com investor-centrcentre e pr  our nascent markets of capabilities that complement our electr electronics-co-ltd onics-co-ltd Bluetooth Smart and Indoors Location prevailing platform technologies, and Voice & Music: the enlarged enabling us to further extend our Legacy Products business consists of competitive advantage.
the digital television system-on-a-chip CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 CSR in review CSR management believes that measures which directly affect the Increasing our technology base underlying measures are meaningful for prospects for recovery and a return to In addition to investment that we make assessing the performance of the growth.
Overall, the indications for in the development of our own ideas Company.
Underlying operating pro t 2013 trend towards the global and technologies, we continue to increased to $74.0 million in 2012 from economic outlook remaining uncertain, acquire capabilities as part of a $49.2 million in 2011, re ecting re ecting slower growth in the disciplined approach to utilising our increased gross margins and our focus developing economies, notably China, financial resources.
We maintained this on reducing our cost base.
Re ecting which through the past few years has activity in 2012 with valuable additions the increasing proportion of our countered lower consumer spending that have quickly been assimilated into revenues derived from platforms, elsewhere, coupled with the prospect our activities, contributing to our underlying gross margins increased to of modest growth in the economies of products, know-how and engagement 50.8% in 2012 from 49.8% in 2011. the West.
In March 2012, we The operating pro t for the year was purchased DDFA, an end-to-end $107.
9 million, against a loss of This backdrop leads us to moderate digital audio processing ampli er $48.4 million in the previous year.
The our revenue expectations for 2013 technology, and in June 2012, bought years pro t re ects exceptional when compared with the record the Map-X audio product line from charges for restructuring and pro t revenues of 2012, with the anticipated Trident, which delivers HD audio from the Samsung transaction as well growth in our Core business being decoding and internet streaming for as the bene ts of our focus on reducing more than offset by the expected next-generation home audio.
More costs in the business.
recently in October, we recruited 10 engineers based in Bristol with Diluted underlying earnings per share Platform-Centric CSR complementary capabilities in Wi-Fi increased to $0.2 7 from $0.
20 in 2011 Across the businesses in our Core and who are supporting our work in and the Board has proposed a final portfolio which comprises Voice & this area.
dividend of $0.08 resulting in a Music: Indoors Location: Auto: proposed 2012 dividend payout of Bluetooth Smart: and Imaging, industry A people business $0.11 8, an increase of 15% on 2011. analysts expect our underlying total I would like to echo the remarks made We ended the year with $333.3 million addressable market to grow by 10% by our Chairman in recognition of the in cash, cash equivalents and treasury compound annual growth rate contribution made through the past deposits, after we returned $285 million CAGR, from 2012 to 2017.
In our year by our employees, including the to shareholders via the tender offer post two single largest areas of investment, 311 people who in October left CSR the Samsung transaction.
It is our Voice & Music is forecast to grow at a and joined Samsung.
I am proud to be intention to return a further $50 million CAGR of 16% per annum in the same working with so many people who to shareholders via a buyback and we period, while the Automotive continually raise the bar and grow with will ask for shareholder authorisation for Infotainment is expected to grow at a the fresh challenges of our business a general authority to do so as soon as CAGR of 8% per annum.
played a large part in the performance Although we forecast a decline in of the past year and I have no doubt In the first half of 2012, CSRs Consumer revenues in 2013 compared they will continue to do so in 2013. underlying annual cost run rate was to 2012, as Camera revenues decline $ 454 million, as we nalised a series of due to the increased use of Looking ahead cost cutting initiatives, including smartphones, we expect that our CSR has transformed itself from a delivery of the previously announced investment in new areas of Imaging will provider of Bluetooth components in annualised cost savings of $130 million, drive growth in the medium-term.
handsets into a broadly diversi ed which were achieved by the middle of platform provider, addressing attractive the year.
As we no longer develop While Auto, Imaging and Voice & Music growth markets.
We have a large IP handset connectivity and handset are here-and-now markets, Bluetooth portfolio of approximately 1,550 US location products, we currently expect Smart and Indoors Location are areas patents granted and approximately underlying operating expenses to where there could be signi cant growth.
1,000 US pending patent applications, reduce further in 2013 compared to Bluetooth Smart is currently being and strong underlying technical 2012, and underlying operating adopted to connect many new types of capabilities, which positions us well for expenses to be between $3 90 million low-energy devices such as computer the long-term.
mice and keyboards, and health and tness products.
We expect wider Given the depth of our product and Market outlook adoption of this technology during 2013 platform portfolio and expertise of our Our products are used in a wide variety and expect strong growth, albeit from a people, I am con dent that we have the of consumer devices and, as a result, small revenue base this year.
capabilities to exploit the growth which we are heavily exposed to consumer we believe is available in our chosen sentiment.
The macro-economic We believe that the ecosystem around markets.
environment has a signi cant impact on Indoors Location within Consumer, consumer sentiment and 2012 was a which combines information from a year where we saw caution as a result variety of sources such as MEMS, of continuing economic uncertainty.
We pressure sensors, and cellular and expect in 2013 many of the worlds wireless networks, is becoming more established economies will still be developed and should lead to a greater Joep van Beurden, grappling with a range of challenges take-up of this technology in the next Chief Executive Of cer contributing to entrenched austerity few years.
