Afren plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Chief Executives review Osman Shahenshah, ChiefExecutive and Founder Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 US$935m 88% E&A success ratio in 2012 1 77 % Operating cash ow In 2012 we achieved record financial results driven 2012 was a period of major success for Afrenand represents an important step in by strong production growth at our greeneld our journey and evolution.
Over the past eight years Afren has positioned itself as development offshore Nigeria.
We realised an theleading independent oil producer E&A success ratio of 88% and a 2P reserves offshore Nigeria: built a track record as a skilled and efficient fast-track developer of replacement ratio of 265%.
We have started oiland gas assets: an agile deal-maker that isable to deliver significant reserves and our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign with success resource growth at a low cost: and is now at Okwok, offshore Nigeria, and Simrit-2 and demonstrating its credentials as an explorer, having delivered major success in 2012 and Simrit-3, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
With a ongoing execution of a multi-well E&A drilling campaign across some of the worlds track record of project delivery, exploration most prospective basins.
success and strategic acquisitions, we are well There are a number of key attributes that have enabled Afren to thrive, and form placed to continue to create significant value for thefoundations of our success.
haveinvested in assembling a world-class portfolio of assets, we have also invested inmaking sure that we have the right peopleinplace to manage and operate the business, and that we prioritise long-term relationships with all of our stakeholders including local partners, host communities and governments alike, ahead of short-term gains.
This long-term approach is what sets us apart, and coupled with our strategic foresight means that we have been able toaccess oil and gas plays in both new andestablished basins that are of genuine world-class quality while creating significant value for our shareholders.
Afren plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Chief Executives review Continued Proving our exploration credentials, We have got off to an excellent start in 2013 Strong production performance with the successful appraisal of the Okwok delivering commercial success The combined performance of our discovery, and over the remainder of the year producing assets in 2012 yielded full year This time last year we set out our exploration have further wells planned across the Ebok average production of c. 43,000 boepd strategy, and the three play-based themes Okwok OML 115 area and Ain Sifni PSC in compared to c. 19,300 boepd in 2011 itis predicated on.
Successful exploration order to fide-risk further upside potential that including associated volumes from OML 26. remains one of the most efficient ways of we can rapidly commercialise and develop This strong production performance was creating significant value, but it requires over the near to medium term.
driven by the year-on-year increase in net capital, technology, knowledge and most production from the Ebok and Okoro elds importantly a high-quality and balanced There are risks associated with monetising offshore Nigeria, where Afren is now the portfolio of assets.
At Afren, we believe our reserves in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, largest independent oil producer.
During thatwe have all of the necessary ingredients while ongoing discussions between the theperiod, the Company commenced to be a successful explorer.
Early results Kurdistan Regional Government and the production from the Okoro Field Extension fromour ongoing multi-well E&A drilling Federal Government of Iraq continue.
offshore Nigeria within ten months of campaign have been highly encouraging, However, we believe our first export is announcing the discovery and also initiated and we have multiple wells planned over imminent and we will continue to monitor production from the Barda Rash eld in the theremainder of the year targeting over this situation in order to manage our risk Kurdistan region of Iraq.
In keeping with 650mmboe of net prospective resources.
ourfast-track development strategy we commenced production from the North Fault 1.
Moderate risk, proven play Block discovery in January 2013, just nine opportunities in and around our concepts that offer significant upside months after announcing the discovery.
coreproduction and development along the West Africa Transform Witha pipeline of large-scale development areas in the Niger Delta and Margin and other parts of the region.
projects and multiple exploration and appraisal wells planned, the Company is well Kurdistan region of Iraq.
In 2012 we continued to mature our positioned to maintain production growth prospect inventory along the West Africa In 2012 we made three discoveries that in2013 and beyond.
Transform Margin and Atlantic Margin, and havematerially added to Afrens discovered in 2013 will participate in exploration wells reserves and resource base.
In Nigeria, the significant reserves growth atOPL 310 offshore south-west Nigeria Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault andat the La Noumbi Block onshore 2012 has been a year of continued reserves Block discoveries represent high-value CongoBrazzaville.
We achieved an enviable E&A incremental development opportunities and success ratio of 88% in the period, a we have already started production at both 3.
Higher risk, play opening testament to our growing credentials as a elds by utilising our existing infrastructure, high-impact explorer.
Our success with the ahead of implementing full eld development opportunities in the rift and coastal drill bit in Nigeria has resulted in net 2P solutions that will add significant new basins of East Africa.
reserves additions of 39 mmbbls, representing production capacity in the region.
In the 2012 was a period of extensive data a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio, and Kurdistan region of Iraq, the Simrit-2 discovery acquisition across our East African portfolio, increasing net 2P reserves to 210 mmboe.
is a major step forward in unlocking the when we acquired 3,483 km of 2D seismic vastpotential of the Ain Sifni PSC.
Having 2 and 2,262 km of 3D seismic together with Delivering excellent total achieved aggregate ow rates of 18,952 1,193 km of aero-magnetic data.
We have bopd on test from the Triassic Kurra Chine, shareholderreturn signicantly increased our net prospective Mus, Adaiyah and Butmah formations, In 2012 Afrens Total Shareholder Return resource volume across the region by we see this discovery as a transformational TSR was 53%, representing an upper 176% to 5,838mmboe, and are now in opportunity for Afren.
Drilling on Simrit-3, quartile performance versus our Main the process of selecting what prospects we exploring the eastern extent of the large Market listed independent peer group.
plan to drill on each of our licences.
Having Simrit aniticline is continuing and has Weoutperformed the FTSE All Share and already participated in our first well onshore successfully encountered hydrocarbon bearing FTSE 350 Oil & Gas indices by 45% and Kenya, over the next 18 months we will intervals in the Cretaceous, Jurassic and 65% respectively during the period.
Since be drilling further wells in Kenya, Tanzania, Triassic reservoirs.
A multi-zone testing IPO to the end of 2012 we have delivered Seychelles, Madagascar and Ethiopia.
programme across Simrit will be undertaken aTSR of 556%.
Wemay also look to actively manage our once drilling operations conclude.
portfolio from a risk reward perspective, andwill consider farm-out opportunities asappropriate.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 P20 Discover our strategy 556% Afrens Total Shareholder Return TSR since IPO Making good progress towards Outlook With an exciting work programme in 2013 encompassing both established and new our2012 to 2015 business targets Looking to the year ahead we are well basins we expect to further solidify our positioned for ongoing success and delivery Having expanded the business signicantly, leading position in Nigeria, further demonstrate against our business targets and strategic we set out last year our business targets for the quality of our asset base in the Kurdistan objectives.
We will continue to fide-risk our the period 2012 to 2015, in alignment with region of Iraq and open up new oil and portfolio through a high-impact E&A our strategic vision and objectives.
Targets gasbasins in East Africa.
With numerous campaign in established and new basins and to2015 and the progress we made towards opportunities for growth, 2013 promises will continue to target material growth in achieving them in 2012 are shown in the tobe another excellent year of achievement ourreserves and production base.
maintaining this balanced mix of production, It is evident that Afren made significant development, appraisal and exploration progress against its business objectives activities and a rigorous capital allocation during the period, and we have carried process, we are building a world-class thismomentum into 2013. reserves and resource base and delivering commercial results.
Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive and Founder Business target Progress in 2012 Continue to grow Afrens presence in our core areas Established Afren as the leading independent oil producer in Nigeria and a leading industry participant ofactivity and geological plays in both East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq Progressively transition a significant portion of our Net 2P reserves growth in 2012 of 39 mmbbls, representing a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio existing 2C resource base into the 2P reserves category Field Development Plan to be submitted at the Okwok eld, offshore Nigeria, in 2013 following successful E&A campaign conrming management estimates of gross recoverable reserves of 52 mmbbls Maintain valuation discipline by targeting 2P 2C The Company made no acquisitions in 2012, but did deliver the 2P reserves growth at a nding cost additions at a cost of under US$4 bbl of US$1.5 perbarrel Discover 250 mmboe of net recoverable 2P 2C The Company made three significant discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of Iraq representing reserves and resources from our forward exploration an E&A success ratio of 88%.
Our discoveries in Nigeria have added net 2P reserves of 39mmbbls.
To date, drilling programme our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign has delivered successful results on the Okwok appraisal in Nigeria and the Simrit exploration wells on the Ain Sifni PSC in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Both results are expected to further grow our reserves and resources base in 2013 Deliver year-on-year production growth Net production in 2012 increased by 123% year-on-year to 43,059 boepd including OML 26 Manage and optimise our production and development Production at the Ebok eld increased by 276% year-on-year and at the Okoro eld by 7% operations to maximise the core value of the business The Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault Block discoveries have both been brought onstream with early production wells via existing facilities, within ten months of announcement of discovery Ensure that available capital is deployed in the most 2012 capital expenditure was in line with guidance at US$520million, and balanced across the Companys efficient way and in alignment with our fullcycle production, development, appraisal and exploration activities business requirements Continually improve CR performance The Group prioritises CR performance.
Whilst EHSS performance came in below expectations in 2012, measures have been put in place to drive continual improvement in future years During the year the Group continued to participate in numerous community projects in its areas of operation.
InNigeria, our ongoing participation with the University of Uyo project has helped the Petroleum Engineering department to receive re-accreditation from COREN and NUC following earlier funding constraints.
In Kenya, weare in our third year of a business skills and micro-credit scheme which provides six months of business training to three womens co-operatives in Shimoni and Mtwapa.
In the Kurdistan region of Iraq, we provided recreational and IT equipment to the Barda Rash Community and Youth Centre.
This centre provides an important area for the local community to congregate and participate in social and educational classes
