14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review I am pleased that we were successful in driving further efficiencies throughout our business, which allowed us to minimise the cost increases we needed to pass onto our customers.
Our success is evidenced by our maintained profitability and increased sales of our key brands.
In the final quarter of the year dairy commodity markets fell sharply and this added to the downward pressure on the profitability of our Dairies business, which had faced difficult trading conditions throughout the year.
We have responded decisively to the challenges facing this business by consulting on the closure of two of our dairies, increasing some selling prices and reducing some of our raw milk purchase prices.
Consumer confidence remains fragile Dairy Crests results for the year We are also proactively shaping our and we expect the markets in which we demonstrate the continued benefit business for the future and in March operate to remain challenging.
of being a broadly based business.
2012 announced a strategic review Double digit growth from our branded of our French spreads business, St Trading performance Spreads and Cheese businesses has Hubert, which is progressing.
Since We increased sales and markedly improved offset unsatisfactory results in Dairies.
the year end we have also announced a our sales mix as we grew our key brands.
We have maintained adjusted Group series of actions to restore our Dairies Sales of our five key brands slowed in profits despite facing inflationary cost business to a satisfactory level of the first half as we obtained selling price pressures of around 80 million this profitability in the medium term.
increases that were necessary to offset year by making annualised cost savings inflationary input costs, but a strong second of around 22 million and achieving Market background half resulted in both volume and value selling price increases.
This has been The start of the year saw significant cost growth for the year as a whole.
made possible by a programme of price inflation in both the UK and France.
We have continued to invest strongly consistent investment in developing We had to achieve a balance between behind all of our key brands and are our key brands and building a modern, recovering this through higher selling prices committed to their ongoing growth.
and continuing to grow sales volumes.
Cathedral City and St Hubert both achieved Financial highlights Operating highlights Strategic highlights Total Revenue up 2% Sales of five key brands up 11% Strategic review of French t Strong growth in Foods revenue t Record market shares for Cathedral spreads business 10%, supported by continued City and St Hubert in fourth quarter progressing progress from key brands Innovation driving added value t More focused Dairies business sales and efficiencies revenue -2%, as action taken to Decisive steps taken since t 10% of sales now derived from improve customer mix year end to return Dairies products and services developed in business to a satisfactory Adjusted profit before tax the last three years, such as Chedds maintained in challenging trading and FRijj the Incredible level of profitability in the conditions t milk&more weekly sales up to 1.2 medium term million Exceptional non-cash impairment Branded food acquisition, charges in Dairies of 81.7 million Input cost increases of around 80 leads to a reported loss million recovered through cost MH Foods, widened savings and selling price increases product portfolio Key net debt to EBITDA ratio at 2.2 well within covenant of 3.5 22 million annualised cost savings delivered during the year, with a Proposed final dividend up 4% at further 20 million identified for 14.7p per share, demonstrating 2012 13 a commitment to progressive dividend policy Business In The Community gold award reflects strong commitment to Corporate responsibility Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 15 record market shares in the fourth quarter Dairies review we will continue to review all elements of this and Cathedral City was short listed to be In a very challenging trading environment, business to ensure its ongoing strength.
Marketing Weeks brand of the year against our Dairies business did not achieve an five other brands including Heinz, John acceptable level of profitability.
On top of Financial summary Lewis and the BBC.
We were also delighted downward pressure on selling prices in Adjusted Group profit before tax was to win the Grocer magazines branded dairy a tough consumer environment and an essentially flat at 87.4 million 2011: 87.6 supplier of the year award.
extremely competitive middle-ground, the million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share Innovation remains hugely important whole sector suffered from steeply falling increased by 5% to 49.4 pence 2011: 47.1 to Dairy Crest and we have an ongoing dairy commodity markets.
However exceptional, non-cash focus to develop new products, services Lower returns from these dairy impairment charges associated with our and ways of working.
During 2011 we commodity markets offset an improved Dairies business led to a reported loss before launched four new ranges, two in France St second half performance, which was tax of 10.1 million and a basic loss per share Hubert 5 Crales and St Hubert Spcialit supported by the actions we took in the of 12.8 pence 2011: reported profit 77.8 Culinaire and two in the UK Chedds and business during the year.
These included million, basic earnings per share 43.2 pence.
A good performance increased sales of innovative new products Group net debt at 31 March 2012 was by all four has contributed to an increase in including milk&more, FRijj The Incredible, 336.4 million 2011: 311.6 million, principally sales derived from products and services milk bags and 1% fat milk, as well as reflecting higher cheese stocks, which are developed in the last three years to 10% of efficiency improvements generated in part necessary to fuel the growth in Cathedral overall sales, ahead of last year and in line by the three year, 75 million investment in City, offset by strong quarter four cash with our ambitious long-term target.
During the year we also widened our Since the year end we have continued product base with the purchase of the to act decisively to protect the future of our Current trading branded food business MH Foods.
This Dairies business and have announced a In the current financial year, we are seeing business manufactures healthy one calorie series of initiatives to restore this business to continued strong momentum in our Foods spray cooking oils under the FryLight brand a satisfactory level of profitability, including the businesses and we expect Dairies to benefit and we are making good progress with our difficult decisions to consult on the closures from the decisive action we are taking and plans to develop its sales and profits.
of two dairies, reduce some of our milk our continued discipline on costs.
We have already commenced initiatives purchase prices, make further depot closures in the current financial year that will again and cut a number of head office jobs.
deliver over 20 million of annualised cost We are now the only UK listed dairy savings, equivalent to around 2.5% of our business and the only major liquid milk cost base excluding milk and commodity processor predominantly in British ingredients.
We achieved the same target in ownership.
From a strong core of three Mark Allen Chief Executive the year ended 31 March 2012. modern and well invested liquid milk dairies 23 May 2012 Brand Market Market growth Brand growth UK cheese 4% 12% UK butter, spreads, margarine 12% 16% UK butter, spreads, margarine 12% -1% French non-butter spreads 6% 19% Fresh avoured milk 27% 7% Total 11% ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2012 Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2012 v 12 months to 31 March 2011 Overview
