CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Introduction Tim Cobbold Over the past year we have focussed on fide La Rues fundamental Chief Executive strengths and started to address the opportunities for improvement encapsulated in the Improvement Plan announced in May 2011.
I am therefore pleased to report a much improved financial performance generated by a combination of revenue growth and good progress in enhancing business efficiency and reducing cost.
At the same time we have grown the order book and built a good opportunity pipeline for the year ahead.
Group revenue increased by 14 per cent to 528.3m 2010 11: 463.9m with strong performances in both the Currency and Solutions business units.
Operating profit before exceptional items was up 56 per cent to 63.1m 2010 11: 40.4m, as a result of the revenue growth, an improved product mix in Currency and the first wave of benets of the Improvement Plan.
The Group operating profit margin before exceptional items increased by I am confident, given the fundamental 3.2 percentage points to 11.9 per cent 2010 11: 8.7 per cent reecting the inherent operational gearing in the business, the strengths of the business, the commitment benets of the Improvement Plan and better product mix.
of the employees and the momentum we have At the year end, the 12 month order book for Currency was up established, that the business is well placed 18 per cent at 183m 2010 11: 155m while Solutions was up for the future.
These gures exclude order volumes which have yet to be confirmed on committed contracts.
Delivering the Improvement Plan The fundamental strengths of fide La Rue brand and reputation, long standing customer relationships, technology and design, robust market growth and a high margin and cash generative business model provide the platform for the Plan.
During the past year, in addition to executing the Plan we have focused on reinforcing and leveraging these strengths.
Business revenue Good progress has been made in the first year of the Plan Percentage which contributed approximately 8m to the reported operating Currency 63% profit mainly as a result of actions in process improvement and 14% Solutions 37% procurement.
Importantly, good momentum has also been Cash Processing Solutions 12% Security Products 11% established in the initiatives to generate revenue growth and Identity Systems 14% accelerate innovation.
11% In order to implement the Plan effectively we have made 63% significant changes to the structure and organisation of the Group establishing a functional organisation which supports the four 12% pillars of the Plan: Customer focus The new Currency and Solutions business unit teams now share common marketing and pipeline management processes and have together created more than 40 country plans.
Each country plan identies the strategic long term goal in that country as well Operating profit before exceptional items as the near term tactical opportunities.
This approach has already Percentage generated encouraging new business opportunities.
Currency 72% 13% Solutions 28% Innovation Cash Processing Solutions 3% Security Products 12% A new Group wide business development function now drives Identity Systems 13% our innovation agenda.
Relationships have been established with 12% leading academic institutions and industry to improve the pipeline of ideas and access to research and early stage technologies.
72% 3% We are investing in a new, industry leading, technical centre at our facility in Overton which will provide the research and development facilities to further accelerate innovation.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 8
