Chief Executives review Delivering a clear and consistent strategy Michael Sharp, Chief Executive My fi first year as Chief Executive of Debenhams has been both hugely rewarding and hugely challenging.
12 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 My fi first year as Chief Executive of Debenhams such, Mikes responsibilities are aligned to has been both hugely rewarding and hugely the fi first and fourth pillars of the strategy, challenging.
We made signifi cant progress Focusing on UK retail and Expanding in many areas of the business whilst at the the brand internationally.
same time facing what could be seen as a Group Trading Director Suzanne Harlow, perfect storm.
Consumer confi dence was who has been with Debenhams since 1994, already fragile before the warm autumn leads our buying and merchandising winter and wet spring summer seasons activities which are crucial to any business dented demand further.
The summer saw with an extensive own brand programme.
an unprecedented number of special events Suzanne is responsible for the development including the Queens Diamond Jubilee of the brand and product strategy that and the London Olympics and Paralympics underpins the second pillar Delivering a which threatened to change consumer compelling customer proposition.
At Debenhams, we focused the past year Suzanne has also assumed on controlling factors that were within responsibility for the sourcing and supply our power, taking a fl exible and pragmatic chain functions.
attitude towards trading in light of the market conditions.
I believe this was a successful Richard Cristofoli joined Debenhams as Throughout 2012 we focused on the relentless approach as the results for the fi financial Marketing Director in 2011, the fi first senior implementation of the four pillars of the year demonstrate.
marketing appointment to the executive strategy that I set out in October 2011 to build committee.
Richard has been instrumental in a leading international, multi-channel brand.
A clear and consistent strategy the changes we have made to communicating Throughout 2012 we focused on the the proposition, another key tenet of the relentless implementation of the four pillars second pillar of our strategy.
of the strategy that I set out in October 2011 to build a leading international, multiNikki Zamblera has been HR Director since channel brand.
As I said in last years Annual 2004.
In a business that employs 30,000 Report, almost every major retailer has people, attracting, retaining and rewarding the same ambition so why do I believe our people is of paramount importance.
We already have a have recently launched the fi first employee strong brand equity.
We have a broad base of climate survey.
customers in terms of age and demographics.
It is not just the senior team which has been We have a unique and diff erentiated product strengthened.
We are investing in people off er which gives our customers a marketacross the business, including the teams leading choice of brands and products.
in buying and merchandising, marketing, We give our customers lots of diff erent ways customer analytics, systems and logistics.
to shop through many diff erent channels.
We already have a wide international reach.
Highlights of the year By the end of 2012 the Debenhams brand Overall I was very pleased with our traded from 239 stores in 28 countries performance which I believe is evidence that and was available online in 67 countries.
the strategy is starting to work.
In particular You can read about the progress we made I was delighted with our like-for-like sales in 2012 and future drivers for growth in performance.
At 1.6%, this was by far the each of the four pillars on pages 16 to 31. strongest like-for-like sales since Debenhams became a public company in 2006.
Top line The right team to deliver growth has been the missing part of our story One of my priorities during my fi first year was in recent years.
We delivered this by focusing to ensure we have the right team with the on what customers wanted when they capability and capacity to deliver the strategy.
We played into key calendar events I fi rmly believe we have the best group of not just Christmas but also Valentines Day, retailers in the UK today.
Easter, Mothers Day and the Diamond I made a number of changes to the senior Jubilee when footfall was at its highest.
management team during 2012 and at the The store modernisation programme same time redefi ned some of the key roles also contributed sales growth.
Eighteen to improve clarity, align them more fully modernisations were completed between with our strategy and allow for faster January and September 2012.
This is more implementation of best practice across stores than we have ever undertaken before the business.
in a single year and it is testament to our We welcomed Simon Herrick to Debenhams planning and execution that we kept in November 2011 and he subsequently disruption to a minimum.
took up the role of Chief Financial Offi cer We saw continued strong progress in our in January 2012.
As well as his fi finance multi-channel business which grew faster role, Simon heads our systems and than the market in 2012.
increased by 39.8% during the year to Mike Goring joined us as Retail Director in 250.6 million and on a three year basis January 2012.
Mikes role brings together for have grown by 355%.
the fi first time the operation of all Debenhams stores, whether owned or franchised, UK or 52 weeks to 1 September 2012 vs 52 weeks international, and store development.
As to 27 August 2011 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Chief Executives review continued I was also pleased with our international points to 2.5% over the year source: Kantar businesses.
The franchise stores performed 52 weeks to 2 September 2012 vs 2011. well with seven new store openings in 2012 Home sales have also held up well in a and a contracted new store pipeline of diffi cult market, driven by online which 21stores.
Our Danish department store now accounts for over 20% of all home sales.
chain Magasin du Nord had a successful We have begun to see some real results year, delivering like-for-like sales growth from the Life Made Fabulous marketing despite a slowing of the local economy.
The campaign that ran throughout 2012.
Not environment is still diffi cult in the Republic only have sales of featured lines been very of Ireland but we believe we are gaining strong, but our independently conducted market share.
International online has also brand research suggests that attitudes been expanded signifi cantly.
The number towards Debenhams are changing in of countries we deliver to from debenhams.
com outside the UK has expanded from seven to 66 and we have launched a local In April, we commenced a long-term share language website in Germany.
buyback programme and subsequently purchased 20 million of shares.
We expect For a number of years we have been seeking to buy back up to 40 million of shares over We have begun to see some real results from to expand our non-clothing business and the Life Made Fabulous marketing campaign the next 12 months.
we saw further progress in this area in 2012. that ran throughout 2012.
Not only have sales Non-clothing accounted for 49% of gross Next steps: future growth drivers of featured lines been very strong but our transaction value in 2012.
Health & beauty is Whilst I am pleased with the great progress independently conducted brand research a key part of our non-clothing off er and our made over the past year, I am more excited suggests that attitudes towards Debenhams are changing in a positive way.
premium health & beauty sales increased by about what is to come next.
You can read 11%, ahead of the market which grew at 8% more about future growth drivers in all four source: NPD, 52 weeks to end August 2012. pillars but I would highlight a few areas We have also seen traction in areas where we where I am impatient for success.
have been specifi cally targeting market share I would include amongst these the work we growth such as womens footwear where are doing on what we call single view of the market share has increased by 40 basis customer which will give us a clearer Focusing on UK retail Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel Improving uninvested More choice core stores and better availability Accelerating store More ways to shop modernisations Opening new stores Improving the customer experience Delivering a compelling customer proposition Expanding the brand internationally Brand and product International strategy franchise stores Instore execution Owned international assets Communicating International online the proposition 14 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 perspective on shopping patterns and Outlook for 2013 customer behaviour.
One of the benefi ts We believe that customers are to a large of this will be more tailored marketing extent acclimatised to the new economic to individual customers because we will reality.
We do not anticipate a signifi cant have a better understanding of how they change in the economic environment over shop and will be able to personalise our the course of 2013 but we expect to make communications to them.
In fact we further progress during the year as our are strengthening our overall customer strategy delivers further benefi ts.
We will strategy and insight capability.
always manage cash, costs, stocks and margins closely but we are committed With the success of the stores we have to continue investing in key areas of the modernised over the past two years, business to deliver long-term sustainable I would like to have all the outstanding store growth as well as further returns of capital modernisations including Oxford Street to drive shareholder value.
But we are working at full capacity and so our target remains Michael Sharp Christmas 2014 to complete the core store Chief Executive modernisations, after which we will have a rolling programme of 10-12 stores a year.
We also need to improve our delivery promise for customers who shop online.
The groundwork has been done with the completion of the Sherburn distribution centre and the conversion of Peterborough to a fulfi lment centre but we will start to gain real momentum next year as third party fulfi lment contracts end and we bring the majority of online fulfi lment in-house, thereby allowing us to reduce delivery times and off er a better range of delivery options.
Executive committee From left to right: Nikki Zamblera HR Director, Simon Herrick Chief Financial Offi cer, Richard Cristofoli Marketing Director, Michael Sharp Chief Executive, Mike Goring Retail Director, Suzanne Harlow Group Trading Director.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
