com 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Chief Executives Review continued There are a number of benefits to the acquisition: Manufacturing Capabilities Eurovet brings a sterile facility providing a new manufacturing Complementary Geographies competency for Dechra.
The facility is modern, having been It creates a strong presence in Germany where Dechra built in 2007. historically sold its products through a distributor: The site, at Bladel in the Netherlands, also manufactures It considerably strengthens our sales and marketing oral liquids, pre-mixes and water soluble powders which are infrastructure in Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and the almost entirely complementary to our existing manufacturing UK, where synergies have already been realised through cost competencies.
savings as duplicated sales offices have been rationalised: Product Development and Eurovet has a proven track record of delivering first entrant There will also be some margin benefit from Eurovet products generics and added value generics with a new dosage that can be distributed through Dechras other European form or delivery method.
They have several products at subsidiaries once Eurovets third party contracts are an advanced stage of development with four already in terminated.
Product Range Synergies Eurovet has a successful line of specialised generics that Annualised synergies of 6.0 million are targeted to be delivered deliver technical or economic added value to end users: within three years, of which 2.0 million is already being There is no significant overlap with Dechras companion realised.
These synergies will be achieved through: animal product portfolio with the range being complementary and enhancing to Dechras own portfolio: and The rationalisation of the four duplicated sales and marketing functions with significant cost savings: It provides an entry to the farm animal market which has been one of Dechras strategic objectives.
Revenue synergies from Dechra products being sold through Eurovets German distributor: Revenue synergies from Eurovet products being sold through Dechra subsidiaries: Cost synergies from rationalisation of administrative expenses: and Margin improvement from in-house manufacturing of some previously outsourced products.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 14 15 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Key Products and Specialisations Historically Dechras product range was entirely focused on companion animals and horses.
However, the acquisition of Eurovet has given the Group a significant and strategically important platform in the farm animal product market.
The majority of key products in both the companion animal and farm animal markets are novel or have clear marketing advantages over competitor products.
Several of our branded range have market leading positions in the majority of territories in which we operate.
Critical Care Farm Animal Antimicrobials Dechra has a wide range of products that A superior range of antimicrobial support emergency medicine including treatment products for swine and poultry Dermatology Equine Medicine licensed pharmaceuticals, wound has been added to the Dechra portfolio Dermatology represents approximately The Group has a wide range of treatments, consumables and instruments all predominantly through the acquisition of Eurovet.
In a market where there is 20% of veterinarians clinical time and licensed products supporting the sold in the UK.
The leading range of products is the Vetivex increased emphasis on reducing the usage of antibiotics in is currently a major focus area for the equine veterinarian.
The leading product with the highest sales brand.
the farm animal sector, it is essential that reliable and effective industry.
Best practice and management is Equipalazone which is licensed in five major EU countries.
products are available to veterinarians to support them in the The Vetivex range of infusion fluids are licensed for the treatment techniques look to adopt more topical products, as opposed prudent use of antibiotics.
The Solustab range has been Equipalazone was first licensed in a sachet presentation in 1972 of dehydration.
They are widely used to meet normal fluid and to oral treatments, with the aim of utilising antibiotics more specifically developed to meet this need and is renowned and subsequently in a paste and injection.
It continues to be electrolyte requirements when fluids cannot be given orally, such appropriately.
Dechras product portfolio, with its range of for its high level of solubility leading to a reliable and stable the leading non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug NSAID for as during surgery.
licensed and non-licensed topical products, is well positioned product when added to drinking water.
This reduces the need the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders, such as lameness for this approach.
Sedation and analgesia are major sub-groups of critical care.
for additional enhancing agents widely used by competitor arising from acute and chronic laminitis in horses.
Dechra, enhanced by the Eurovet acquisition, markets one of products.
Canaural was first licensed in 1975 and is still the leading first Equidone Gel was approved in 2010 for the treatment of the largest ranges of products in this sector.
The range covers line treatment for otitis externa in cats and dogs in several EU Octacillin, marketed since 2003 in the Netherlands, is sold in fescue toxicity in horses.
This niche product is targeted a wide number of species, different degrees of pain intensity territories.
Canaural, which is now registered in 27 countries, 15 European countries following approval in 2006 and 2011. specifically at the USA market.
management and duration of effect.
Within the range there are can also be used in conjunction with our leading ear cleaning Octacillin is a highly soluble and stable antibiotic powder a number of unique licenses, Intra Epicaine, a local anaesthetic product CleanAural.
HY-50 is used for intra-articular and intravenous treatment of containing amoxicillin which is added to drinking water in the recommended for infiltration, nerve block, intra-articular and lameness in horses caused by joint dysfunction.
The acquisition treatment of diseases in swine and poultry.
Fuciderm, licensed in 1995, is the only licensed product for epidural anaesthesia in horses, Comfortan, the only licensed of this product strengthened Dechras position in equine pain the treatment of surface pyoderma in dogs, such as acute methadone hydrochloride for analgesia in dogs and Fentadon, Soludox, marketed in Benelux since 2002, is a highly soluble management in several major European territories.
It is a key product within our the only licensed fentanyl for intra-operative analgesia and postantibiotic powder for administration via drinking water and dermatology range, selling into 23 countries.
is being sold in 16 European Member States as a result of Endocrinology approval for swine and chickens, completed in 2010.
The active Malaseb, was first licensed in 1996 and is still the market Libromide was approved in 2010 for the UK and mutually ingredient is doxycycline.
leading medicated shampoo for cats and dogs.
It is used to Endocrine disorders are also a recognised in 11 additional territories in 2011 2012.
It is the only treat skin diseases caused by Malassezia and staphylococcal key focus for the business with licensed product of its type which is used in combination with Methoxasol, is a ready to use liquid medication, which can be infections.
a number of licensed products other pharmaceuticals for the management of canine epilepsy.
easily added to the drinking water of swine and poultry, it has treating a range of chronic been marketed in the Netherlands since the mid 1990s.
Thanks Animax, licensed for the treatment of skin conditions in dogs, diseases.
The three leading brands are Vetoryl, Forthyron and to successful European procedures in 2000, 2009 and most and cats, is only approved in the United States.
recently in 2012, this highly soluble liquid is marketed in 15 rights for this product were acquired in May 2007.
Several generic products are registered Member States.
The active ingredients are sulphamethoxasol Vetoryl is a novel product for the treatment of Cushings DermaPet, acquired in October 2010, is a range of shampoos, within the United Kingdom: this basket of and trimethoprim, a proven synergistic combination for syndrome excess cortisol or hyperadrenocorticism in dogs.
It conditioners and ear products to treat numerous skin and ear products is marketed under the Dechra antimicrobial effectiveness.
is marketed internationally and is the only recognised licensed conditions in dogs and cats.
Key brands are Triz, MalAcetic and Veterinary Essentials brand.
A number efficacious veterinary product for the treatment of Cushings Cyclospray is the leading antibiotic spray treatment in Europe Malaket.
of products are also registered in Europe: syndrome around the world.
for claw hoof infections, interdigital dermatitis foot rot in sheep we are in the process of in-licensing and registering additional and digital dermatitis in cattle.
It is widely used in the prevention Forthyron is licensed to treat the most widely recognised products to extend our branded generic range within this Ophthalmology of infection of superficial traumatic or surgical wounds in cattle, endocrine disorder, canine hypothyroidism.
The acquisition of Eurovet has significantly strengthened sheep and pigs.
Cyclospray has been marketed since 2000 in Ophthalmology is an area of mutually recognised levothyroxine treatment in Europe and is this basket of products with the first differentiated generic of the 12 European Member States.
The active veterinary medicine where marketed in all the major European countries.
active principle ingredient, pimobendan, branded Cardisure.
we have a number of leading products including licensed Cardisure is a leading treatment for canine congestive heart Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for the pharmaceuticals, unlicensed care products and instruments.
failure and is marketed throughout Europe.
Originally licensed in the UK Pet Diets Fucithalmic Vet, licensed in 1993, is the only licensed product in 2002, Felimazole was then licensed in the EU in 2005, the US available for the treatment of conjunctivitis associated with in 2009 and has subsequently been approved in Canada.
Care Dechra has two main cat and dog diet staphylococcal infections.
It is highly effective because of its product ranges, both branded Specific, The Care range comprises unlicensed unique sustained release formulation that ensures prolonged which are sold exclusively through products which complement our retention within the eye.
It is currently licensed in 21 countries.
Therapeutic diets, which represent 70% pharmaceutical range.
They are available Additionally we market a range of ophthalmic and otic products of overall diet sales, provide optimum levels of nutrition in areas over the counter within veterinary in the USA, the long term marketing rights were acquired in such as diabetes, arthritis and urinary, kidney, liver and heart practices.
The three key products are CleanAural, a non-irritant May 2007.
There are six products in the range, with the majority problems.
Life stage diets, which represent 30% of diet sales, cleaner suitable for frequent use in ears producing excess wax, being the only veterinary licensed products in the American provide premium quality daily nutrition for healthy dogs and Neutrale, a range of specialist shampoos for skin conditions in market.
dogs, and Lubrithal, an eye lubricant for cats and dogs.
com 16 17 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance The Business and its Markets Product Development Dechra operates under four segments: The ongoing development of our specialist branded veterinary Pharmaceuticals exclusive products is a key part of the Groups future growth Registrations were achieved in the year for: Product Development: plans.
European Pharmaceuticals which comprises Dechra 30mg and 60mg Vetoryl in Brazil: Development Strategy Veterinary Products Europe including Eurovet DVP EU Libromide, through the mutual recognition process, in 11 and Dechra Manufacturing: The Group has a strategic programme to increase its product European countries: portfolio.
The main criteria for assessing a potential product for US Pharmaceuticals comprising Dechra Veterinary Malaseb for Switzerland: and inclusion in the development pipeline are: Products US DVP US : and 120mg Vetoryl for the USA.
Services comprising National Veterinary Services NVS and risk adjusted return on investment: Since acquisition two Eurovet products have also received our Laboratories, Dechra Laboratory Services DLS and market potential and future growth opportunities: approval: Dechra Specialist Laboratories DSL.
geographical scope: and The Group employs 1,237 people, operates out of 14 countries Methoxasol, an antimicrobial for pigs and poultry for the EU: the ability to sell and market through existing distributor and and exports products globally to over 40 countries.
Myorelax, an equine muscle relaxant for the EU.
Our product development is concentrated in four areas: Diets Novel POMs for dogs, cats and horses.
We target products A number of new diet products have been developed for in specialist therapeutic areas and focus on novel ideas using the EU: new Active Principle Ingredients APIs in underserved markets.
Most of our projects utilise existing pharmaceutical Specific CED canine endocrine support for the treatment of entities that are typically used within the human market and endocrine disorders: therefore the majority of product creation is development Specific FID and FIW feline digestive support for cats with rather than research based.
acute and chronic gastrointestinal disorders: and Development of generics in any major species, preferably Specific FJD and FJW, a diet to support cats with within one of our areas of therapeutic sector specialisation.
osteoarthritis and reduced joint function.
This includes standard generics for any species which are copycat products of an original proprietary veterinary product and differentiated generics, known as Star Products.
Star Products are generic copies of existing veterinary medicines where a marketing advantage is found, such as an improved delivery system, clinical advantage or improved presentation.
Therapeutic pet diets for dogs and cats.
Products are formulated and trialled to provide optimum nutrition for animals diagnosed with various medical conditions.
Unlicensed medicines, shampoos and supplements for dogs, cats and horses.
These products, on the whole, are intended for veterinary recommendation and in most cases will complement the therapeutic areas in which our POMs are targeted.
Development Achievements The Group has continued to increase investment in product development with a 9.8% increase in expenditure over the corresponding period last year.
Dosage form and formulation work is conducted in the UK and the Netherlands: regulatory work is conducted in the UK, Denmark and the Netherlands: safety and efficacy trials are predominantly controlled by our USA team.
com 18 19 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Product Pipeline Diets Product Pipeline Novel POMs Species Indication Territory Manufacturing 2013 2014 2015 2016 There are currently five novel products in development.
A feline gastrointestinal project has been terminated prior to any significant Feline Orthopaedic EU Outsourced costs being incurred due to the market size being immaterial.
A new otic product has been added to the development schedule which has significant global potential.
Two other products are at an advanced stage of review and at least one is likely to be Canine Feline Critical care EU Outsourced taken forward.
As previously reported, there has been a short delay in the first novel product, an equine lameness medicine, due Canine Feline Urinary EU Outsourced to external manufacturing issues.
However, it is pleasing to report that FDA completion letters have been received on safety and Canine Feline Dental EU Outsourced efficacy for this product.
Canine Feline Allergy EU Outsourced Development programme maintains competitive position and enhances growth.
Novel Others Species Indication Territory Manufacturing 2013 2014 2015 2016 In addition, there are several other exploratory projects, line extensions, territory expansions and life cycle management projects.
Equine Lameness International Outsourced Canine Endocrine International Own in-house Feline Endocrine International Outsourced Canine Feline Dermatology International Own Canine Feline Otic International Own In excess of 30 million potential annual revenue and gross margin expectation in excess of 70%.
Generics Species Indication Territory Manufacturing 2013 2014 2015 2016 Swine Poultry Anti-infective EU Own Canine Sedative EU Own Swine Poultry Anti-infective Germany Own Canine Feline Sedative EU Own Swine Poultry Anti-infective EU Outsourced Canine Feline Equine Critical care EU Outsourced Canine Feline Equine Sedative EU Own Dairy Anti-infective EU Own Swine Poultry Anti-infective EU Own Cattle Anti-infective EU Outsourced Canine Sedative EU Own Canine Diuretic EU Own In excess of 10 million potential annual revenue and gross margin expectation in excess of 50%.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
