Chief executives review Diageo has delivered excellent growth We are an increasingly agile business.
This is the first year to benefit from our reorganisation into 21 business units within our five regions.
This change has given us a sharper focus.
Diageo is a strong business, continued to put in place strong products and through the renovation getting stronger.
In what remain fundamentals in Asia Pacific.
and extension of existing brands.
the most challenging economic We continued to invest behind our This year was our biggest ever for circumstances of my career, Diageo most successful brands and categories innovation launches.
Our reserve has delivered excellent growth: in their most important markets.
We brands also posted very strong growth in net sales, market shares saw that commitment rewarded with growth, up 27% in the year.
and profit allowing growth in some outstanding performances from We take considerable account dividends to shareholders.
We have our most important brands.
Scotch of our market share in individual also continued to build a business whisky and vodka are the categories at battlegrounds against the competition which is increasingly recognised for the core of Diageo and both recorded and in these we saw gains in many the strength of its brands, its focus on very strong growth.
We also set great store by faster growing markets and its agility Diageos scotch brands delivered measures of our compliance against in managing resources.
Led by Johnnie the Diageo code of business conduct.
In the year covered by this report Walker and Buchanans: they continue We have made good progress this year we delivered very strong growth at to outperform the market.
We are in this area but we know that we must both the top and bottom line, confident that there are still more be ever vigilant in our conduct and continued margin expansion and a opportunities for growth and therefore that we will be judged by the most good year in terms of free cash flow.
took the decision to invest a further exacting standards, both by external That performance was despite the 1 billion in whisky production and stakeholders and by ourselves.
continuing fragility of consumer maturation in Scotland the largest Perhaps most eye catching was confidence across much though not investment of its type ever made.
the progress of our business in faster all of Western Europe and uncertainty Vodka also performed very growing markets.
Our North American strongly and grew double digit a real for almost 40% of our business and we business performed strongly and we testament to the quality and durability expect that proportion to grow.
We saw exceptional growth in Latin of brands like Smirnoff, Ketel One vodka completed our acquisition of the Mey America.
Despite periods of political and Croc.
Much of this growth across ki business in Turkey, giving us a major unrest in some markets, our business our brands was driven by our capacity role in that countrys raki market.
"We in Africa grew significantly and we to innovate, with both new to world also increased our holdings in Chinas 10 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Our business model how we deliver value for our shareholders Our strengths Drive sustainable To deliver our and responsible medium term goals performance Leading brands combining Our industry leading Faster organic net sales growth heritage and innovation capabilities t 6% CAGR in the medium term r. BSLFUJOH Organic operating margin Route to market advantage r 4BMFT through scale r 4VQQMZ improvement r CQUT CZ ZFBS FOEJOH VOF r. BOBHFNFOU Global balance across developed Eps growth and emerging markets Our flexible operating model t Double digit growth in core eps r ""HJMJUZ BOE TDBMF Outstanding, diverse excluding exceptional items and talented people Our financial discipline and the exchange impact on operating profit Shuijingfang and Vietnams Halico."
seek out new opportunities Two further important transactions and to explore them with speed.
saw us acquire the Meta Abo Brewery We are confident that we are in the thriving beer market of Ethiopia on track to deliver the medium and the Ypica cachaa brand in term financial goals we set out at Brazil.
All of these investments give our preliminary results last August.
us significant positions in strongly The results detailed in these pages performing premium local spirits or demonstrate that even in a most beer sectors in markets where the uncertain economic environment economies are continuing to show Diageo goes into the next financial strong growth.
When the time is year stronger than ever.
I thank every right they will also offer the long term single one of my colleagues across potential of effective new routes to the company for their unswerving markets for our international spirits commitment and dedication to and beers.
We are an increasingly agile It is a privilege to lead them and business.
This is the first year to benefit one which I appreciate very from our reorganisation into 21 much indeed.
business units within our five regions.
This change has given us a sharper focus created by the visibility we have gained from each of these business units.
Although those changes caused Paul S Walsh, some disruption and uncertainty, the Chief executive level of our employees engagement with the values and strategy of the business continues to advance: a major contributor to our renewed ability to All performance metrics are organic net sales, for the year ended 30 June 2012.
