PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7 Performance review ChieH Executives Our strategy review is delivering Lighting Once again Lighting has demonstrated significant growth based on our strategy 2012 2011 These customers operate on a global basis oftargeting the hazardous and industrial andfollowing our expansions into Australia, the lighting market.
Improved performance Revenue 45.5m 26.4m Middle East and Japan in 2011, we established inboth Lighting efcacy and expected profit 8.6m 2.0m Dialight Asia based in Singapore to address the lifetime resulting from our extensive ASEAN market.
Additionally we continued our investment in the introduction of new programme of recruitment of sales personnel products has made it easier for our inthe US, Mexico, Eastern Europe, Western customers to adopt our Lighting products.
Since early 2009 when Dialights first industrial Europe, Russia and Australia to more than double light was introduced, the strategy has been to Dialights Lighting sales force has more than the number of Dialight sales people throughout the focus on sizeable niche markets with defensible doubled in 2012 and the deployment of these world.
A key part of our expansion has been the barriers to entry.
These deliver strong returns extra sales staff is a precursor to continued establishment of aDialight ofce in Houston, forcustomers through the application of the significant growth in the coming years.
A large proportion of all Oil and Gas most current LED technology.
Our focus has projects are specified by major engineering 2012 is just the fourth year of our participation been toprovide products which address the companies based in Houston.
These projects inthis business which is now significant enough heavyindustrial market and in particular those typically havea long gestation period and to become a separate reportable segment and applications which demand the use of lighting willprovide long-term business for Dialight.
within that segment it is clear that not only have which is rated for use in hazardous locations.
revenues increased but also profitability has Towards the end of 2012, we introduced The value that Dialights products bring to nowreached a par with our other reportable afurther extension to our High Bay range thishazardous market applies to the installed segments, with more improvement to come.
ofproducts which will extend the applications base ofindustrial lighting and to brand new which our LED lights can address.
This new installations giving an addressable market product produces over 25,000 lumens and sizeinthe tens of billions of pounds globally.
allows us to replace up to 1,000 watts of Our sales of 45.5m are tiny in relation conventional lighting using only 250 watts.
totheavailable market and bearing in mind Thisis just the latest in a continuing ow thatDialight is the pioneer of LED lighting ofimproved new products.
forindustrial applications, the opportunity forsuperior growth exists for years to come.
Since our Solid State Lights are based onsemiconductor technology, they lend It is useful to understand why it is that this market themselves tocontrol and monitoring which isappropriate for our products and what value cannot be achieved with conventional lighting.
we bring to our potential customers.
We address In June of 2012, Dialight purchased the trade customers in the Oil and Gas, Power Generation, and assets of Airinet, based in Pueblo, Colorado Heavy Process Industry and Manufacturing and for their ability to develop unique controls for Food and Beverage markets, most of whom will ourindustrial lights.
Multiple features will be have round the clock operations with lighting availablewith the Airinet product set which will running 24 7 and no ability to easily shut down signicantly enhance the payback of our lighting their processes.
It is in these applications that our systems with minimal extra cost.
We expect first ability to save more than 50% of the energy bill significant sales to be in2013.
and guarantee uninterrupted lighting for up to tenyears drives rapid paybacks and significant return on investment.
com 8 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review Signals Segmental analysis 2012 2011 areobvious being much more reliable than the more Lighting conventional light sources that have been used Revenue 48.1m 52.5m Signals byother suppliers.
The lights themselves can be put Components profit 11.3m 11.8m into roughly three categories: red beacons for wind turbines and painted structures: medium intensity white strobe lights for telecommunications towers between 200 and 500 feet: and, high intensity white Revenues reduced by 8% in the year driven Revenue breakdown bydifcult conditions in the Trafc market.
strobes for broadcast towers of more than500 feet.
Obstruction signals were broadly at due to the The market for red beacons is the most mature and deferral of a major contract in the USA.
Contribution has been serviced by a number of suppliers for the Margins were held at last years levels.
The market for medium intensity white strobes has been the exclusive province of Traffic signals Dialight since 2007 with significant sales in 2010, Sales into this market were down in both Europe 2011 and 2012.
Channel to market is through value and North America.
The potential forgrowth in added resellers who have added extra features Europe remains due to low penetration of LED andfunctionality to our signals.
The potential based signals but current economic conditions are remaining market for this product in the US is still delaying significant adoption rates.
Our relationships inexcess of $200m so some competition was to with key Trafc Systems OEMs throughout Europe beexpected and in the latter part of the year one of ProHit breakdown remain strong and business with Siemens in both our former resellers introduced a competing product Germany and the UK is particularly important.
This had the effect of delaying the Our sales to towns and cities throughout Europe award of a major contract from an operator of over are through these OEMs who supply a complete 7,000 towers which had previously been expected trafc system.
One would expect that with the by Dialight.
It is likely that this will be awarded current low level of adoption we would see a in2013 and Dialight is in a good position to be return to growth as the economy improves or as awarded asignicant piece of this.
More than capital for cost saving projects becomes available.
50% of this market rests with the top ten tower operators andDialight is confident in itsposition The North American market for LED Trafc signals with those operators.
In order to safeguard our is now mature.
The majority of the installed base channel position, the Company has decided to of trafc signals has already beenconverted to take amore direct approach to its customers LED technology.
We are nowbeginning to replace and has enhanced its offering to the market the LED signals which were supplied over ten years togivecontrol and monitoring options to its ago.
A major issuein funding this replacement is customers using technology derived from its the fact that efficient signals are being replaced Airinet acquisition whichis discussed further with even more efficient signals saving perhaps inthe Lighting segment above.
Put simply, there is minimal saving produced by the new lights.
In In late 2011, the Company introduced a high an effort to encourage this replacement, Dialight intensity strobe for very tall towers in theUSmarket has introduced an integrated signal head which and during 2012 sold some 20systems.
The will give the cities a twenty year life for their new potential for this market is at least the same as lights with only a single, simple power supply that for the medium intensity product and the change, thus allowing our customers to use product is signicantly more complicated.
This atwenty year life for their payback calculations.
product will largely be sold ona direct basis to end users.
It is expected that this product will Obstruction signals extend the growth horizon to the Obstruction signals product line.
Dialight has pioneered the use of LED technology for aircraft warning lights on tall structures around Our European business supplies Obstruction the world.
For the US market, these lights are signals primarily for the Offshore Wind Turbine regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration market.
Several major German projects were andDialight has often been the only qualied deferred to 2013 but we were still able to show sourcefor an LED version of various of these some minor growth in Europe and it is expected lights.
The benets of LEDs inthis application these projects will be shipped in the New Year.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 9 Performance review which willbe more strongly fuelled by our Components continued developments and innovations in Lighting as weenable the penetration of our allthree technologies to give the best possible solutions into the vast installed base of 2012 2011 performance as they have done over the last four IndustrialLighting.
The efficiency of our lights has doubled The following pages set out the Groups business since the introduction of our first Safesite profit 3.1m 4.9m model and investment proposition, and itsstrategy product.
This improved efficiency translates and Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
directly into savings in electricity usage and Todemonstrate some achievements during therefore cost.
Inaddition to electricity savings, Up until this year, we have reported two theyear and to highlight the future we have reliability is vital tomany of our customers.
components segments: one being LED included a regional review ofthe Americas, Indication Components the other being In applications where access is difficult or AsiaPacic Australia andEurope Middle East Electromagnetic Disconnects.
During 2012 dangerous, process shutdowns are expensive, alongside relevant casestudies.
thepart of Electromagnetic Disconnects which reliable lighting is paramount.
From the launch relates to Utility Switches was divested and ofour first lights, all of our products have Roy Burton sowe will now report a combined Components carriedave-year comprehensive warranty.
Group Chief Executive Segment which is the combination of LED Onceagainan industry exclusive for Dialight Indication and the remaining small portion of isthe announcement of a ten year warranty for Electromagnetic Disconnects.
This segment is our latest products thus giving our customers cyclical and over time is not expected to grow.
aneven longer period over which to calculate Much of the business is channelled through savings and return on investment as well as distributors and has a very diverse customer enjoying maintenance free lighting.
Margins are strong and stable and are tothese technical improvements, our engineers expected to remain so.
The business is split have reduced our costs to give over 8% between sales through distributors, which improvement in Lighting contribution margins.
constitutes more than half of the revenues Ongoing redesign to reduce our costs as well andaddress over 15,000 Dialight customers.
asimproving performance is the watchword The balance of the business goes through forour engineers and we will continue this contract manufacturers who assemble for our taskin2013.
major OEM customers who supply high end In order to service the growth in our Lighting servers, internet access equipment, cellular business we have expanded production capacity infrastructure and storage.
We believe the in existing facilities as well as opening a new facility fundamentals of thebusiness remain sound in Penang, Malaysia.
Our plan is that this new andshould provide several years of continued plant will be used for the duty free supply of profit input albeit withuctuations in line with Lighting products into most of the fast growing thegeneral electronics market.
Malaysia gives us not only acost effective base but also closeness to Operations and engineering important geographies in the Oil and Gas markets.
Once again our Engineering and Operations teams had a busy year.
From the introduction Intellectual property is important to us and ofground breaking new products to establishing intheyear we had eight new patents granted.
manufacturing on a new continent, our technical Weled 36 new applications and we had 115 staff were kept fully engaged all year.
patent applications pending at the year end.
Major new product introductions this year saw Summary ourrst 100 lm W products hit the market Once again our niche strategy has delivered therst in the industry.
This has now become topand bottom line growth with a road map to ourstandard and we are striving to further sustain this for the coming years.
Our products improve this efficiency in 2013 but signicantly have improved during 2012 and have brought this improvement will not be as a result only of better savings in energy, less maintenance and improved LED efficiency.
Within any LED lighting improved safety to our customers.
The key system losses occur due to optical, thermal and Lighting segment is positioned to drive the electronic inefficiencies.
Dialight engineers and Groupforward to achieve continued growth scientists work to optimise the performance of www.
