Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives overview We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and human manner Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Our performance Valuing our people I am pleased with the performance of the Group, with The performance we achieve is a result of the hard work, underlying operating profits increasing eight per cent and dedication and diligence of all our people across the Group.
underlying earnings per share increasing 14 per cent to We continuously strive to attract, develop and retain the best 62.8 pence.
Each operating division has made good people, enabling them to fulfil their potential and meet and progress in the year and is well placed for the future.
The recent acquisition of Yew has expanded our presence Managing our business responsibly in the North of England and offers exciting opportunities As an industry leader, we aim to be both successful and for the Group.
We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and human manner, acting responsibly A consistent strategy and resilient business model in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the We continue to believe that the strategy we have used for communities we serve.
over ten years remains the most appropriate one for this business and has created significant value for shareholders.
During the year, we completed our project to ensure we have mercury abatement equipment installed at 20 of Our objectives are simple: prioritise client service, manage our crematoria locations.
We have also progressed our our operations efficiently, expand our portfolio of funeral programme of installing smart meters in our locations, and crematoria locations and gain new clients through the thus reducing our environmental footprint and controlling sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
A shareholder who invested at the time of our flotation Our marketplace and future regulatory landscape in 2004 has received their entire initial investment back The market remains competitive.
Within funerals, new in cash and still has a shareholding worth approximately competitors continue to open putting pressure on existing three and a half times that initial investment.
This is not something new and is a feature of the industry that we have successfully dealt with for many years.
Meeting clients needs and striving for excellence We are focused on service because our clients do not use With crematoria, lower land values means that it is possible us by chance.
Three quarters have used us before or choose to acquire land and build new crematoria.
We are focused us because of recommendation and reputation.
They return on identifying and acquiring such opportunities wherever and recommend us because of the quality service we provide.
Nevertheless, the number of crematoria in the UK being developed is limited.
I am delighted that yet again this year, customer satisfaction has been at very high levels.
However, we are not complacent The funeral industry remains unregulated.
There have and continue to work with our staff to help them improve been calls for regulation in the past year.
I would welcome the service we provide year over year.
Quite rightly, clients regulation of the industry and am sure that Dignitys expectations have risen over time.
It is up to us to continue operations could set the benchmark for the facilities and to improve our service to meet these increasing expectations.
practices required under such a situation.
In the past year, 99.3 per cent of clients said that we met or exceeded their expectations.
Creating value and delivering on our key priorities As a board, we are committed to creating value for our Leveraging our financial stability and strength shareholders.
We believe this is best achieved by prioritising Our robust business model and stable, cash generative client service, continuing to run the core business efficiently, nature continues to allow us to maintain a suitable level acquiring quality funeral and crematorium businesses where of debt within the business.
We continue to believe that possible, selling pre-arranged funeral plans and then using periodically rebalancing our capital structure is an efficient our stable, cash generative business model to leverage our activity and is a meaningful way of creating value for capital structure.
However, we will do this remembering that our shareholders.
every day, we are here to help people through one of the most difficult times in their lives.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 05 |
