06 DIPLOMA PLC Chief Executives Review Principal corporate objectives Achieve double digit growth in adjusted EPS over the business cycle Adjusted earnings per share EPS, measured over the business cycle, provides an absolute benchmark of the Companys performance.
Over the last five years, adjusted EPS has grown at acompound growth rate of 20% p. a. through a combination of steady Bruce Thompson organicgrowth and carefully Chief Executive Officer targetedacquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper quartile of the FTSE 250 In 2012 the Group has continued Total shareholder return TSR is the growth in value of a share plus the value thegrowth trend with Adjusted of dividends re-invested in the Companys shares on the day on which they are paid.
EPSincreasing by 19% and TSR This is measured against the TSR growth of the FTSE mid-250 index excluding byover 50%.
The last five years have seen a compound TSR growth for Diploma of 21% p. a. which represents upper quartile performance ascompared with the FTSE 250, where median TSR growth has been 5% p. a.
Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Deliver progressive dividend growth 300 with two times dividend cover Diploma follows a progressive dividend 250 policy with a target cover of two times onan adjusted EPS basis.
Over the last 200 five years, dividends have steadily grown 150 at the rate of 22% p. a. and this continues the trend of increasing dividends in each 100 of the last 13 years.
50 0 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Diploma rebased FTSE 250 rebased, ex Investment Trusts Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 07 Continuing strong performance delivers long term value to shareholders.
Next level objectives Key performance indicators Generate stable GDP plus organic revenue Total revenue growth: % p. a.
2012 260.2m growth over the business cycle 2011 230.6m The businesses target organic revenue growth, 2010 183.5m p. a. overthe economic cycle, at a rate of 56% p. a.
2009 160.0m 16% compound GDP plus growth, with higher growth rates 2008 156.2m Total revenue m achieved at the Group level through carefully selected value enhancing acquisitions.
2009 -12% 2008 8% 6% average Underlying organic revenue growth % p. a.
Operating margins: 2012 20.3% Maintain stable attractive margins %ofrevenue 2011 19.6% Operating margin is an important measure of 2010 17.5% thesuccess of the businesses in achieving superior 2009 16.0% margins by offering strongly differentiated products 2008 17.0% 18% average and customer focused solutions, aswellas by running Operating margin as % of revenue efficient operations.
2012 22.3m Accelerate growth through carefully selected Acquisition spend: m 2011 28.2m value enhancing acquisitions 2010 11.0m To complement the Groups organic growth 2009 12.2m strategy, the Group has an ongoing acquisition 20%ROI 2008 7.9m programme, designed to accelerate growth and Acquisition spend m tofacilitate entry into related strategic markets.
Generate consistently strong cash ow tofund 2012 32.7m Free cash ow: m growth strategy and dividends 2011 25.0m Free cash ow is dened as the cash ow 2010 29.8m p. a. generated after tax, but before acquisitions 2009 23.5m 26m average anddividends.
This measures the success of 17.7m 2008 theGroup and its businesses in turning profit Free cash ow m intocash through the careful management of working capital and investments in xed assets.
Working capital as % of revenue 2012 16.5% 2011 16.1% 2010 15.4% 2009 17.6% 16- 17% average 2008 17.2% Working capital as % of revenue ROTCE: % 2012 26.6% Create value by consistently exceeding 2011 25.4% 20%ROTCE 2010 22.1% Return on trading capital employed ROTCE 2009 19.0% isdened as adjusted operating profit as a 23% average 2008 22.4% percentage of trading capital employed TCE.
ROTCE % TCE excludes net cash and non-operating assetsand liabilities, but includes all goodwill andacquired intangible assets.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 08 DIPLOMA PLC Chief Executives Review 2012 Year in Review Proven Strategy for Growth Resilient Business Model The Groups strategy is designed to generate strong, The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised double-digit growth in earnings and value over the business businesses which design their individual business models to make cycle, by building larger, broader-based businesses in the three them essential to their customers.
Our businesses are focused Diploma sectors of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls.
Over the on supplying essential products and services which are funded last five years, adjusted earnings per share EPS and total by the customers operating rather than their capital budgets, shareholder return TSR have grown at compound growth providing recurring income and stable revenue growth.
By rates of 20% pa and 21% pa, respectively.
supplying essential solutions, not just products, we build strong long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, which In 2012, the Group has continued this growth trend, with adjusted support sustainable and attractive margins.
Finally we encourage EPS growing by 19% and TSR by over 50%.
In addition, the Group an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through our has made significant progress in making the investments needed decentralised management structure and these essential values to lay the robust foundation for continued growth in the next five ensure that decisions are made close to the customer and that year period.
the businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Good Operating Performance In 2012, revenues increased by 13% to 260.2m 2011: 230.6m Acquire, Build, Grow Strategy to Drive Double Digit Growth with underlying growth of 6% after adjusting for currency Our businesses target organic revenue growth over the business effects, acquisitions and a small divestment.
Adjusted operating cycle at the rate of 56% pa GDP plus growth.
Growth is then margins for the year have increased to 20.3% of revenue accelerated through carefully selected, value-enhancing 2011:19.6%, though margins have reduced from the record acquisitions which t the business model and offer entry into high of 20.8% at the Half Year mainly due to the investment new strategic markets.
These acquisitions form an integral part programmes which have been initiated during the year.
of our sector growth strategies, designed to deliver strong double digit growth.
significant progress has been made since the Half Year with the planned investments designed to support the future growth of In general, when we acquire businesses, the acquisitions we the business.
Two of the Industrial OEM Seals businesses in the make are of companies which t our business model and which US, RT Dygert and All Seals, both completed moves to larger are already successful, with a good track record.
They will be new facilities.
IS-Rayfast, the UK Controls business and Vantage, marketing led with strong customer relationships and will have the Canadian Healthcare business, have also completed major a secure supply of high quality, differentiated products.
They facility moves in the first quarter of the new financial year.
Three will have capable management and a track record of stable, new IT projects have been started in the businesses, with further profitable growth and cash generation.
The objective is to projects planned for later in the year.
Finally, investment has generate a pre-tax return on investment ROI of at least 20% been made in additional management resource within the on each acquisition and hence support our Group objective major businesses and in the Diploma corporate group.
In total, ofconsistently exceeding 20% ROTCE.
2.1m of the planned 6.0m cash investment was made in the second half of the year, leading to additional operating costs of The acquired businesses have often reached the point where ca.
1.0m being added this year to support future growth.
additional resources are needed to take them to the next level of growth.
Working with management, we provide the investment Even after these additional investments, free cash ow in 2012 required to build a rm foundation to allow the business to move hasagain been strong at 32.7m 2011: 25.0m, with working to a new level of growth.
The investment will normally be in new capital as a percentage of revenue at 16.5%, in line with the facilities and IT systems, increased but carefully managed working longer term average of 1617%.
capital and additional management resource.
During the year, 20.8m was invested in the acquisition of DSL Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group and a solid inLife Sciences, J Royal in Seals and Abbeychart andAmfast in platform has been established, the priority is to grow the Controls and a 10% minority interest in JRPP purchased for 0.7m.
The acquired companies other than small bolt-on Return on trading capital employed ROTCE has increased to acquisitions maintain their distinct sales and marketing identity 26.6% 2011: 25.4% driven by the growth in profits and strong and are managed as independent business units.
Where there management of working capital across the businesses.
are opportunities for real synergies, typically in cross-selling, purchasing and back office operations, the businesses are managed within larger business clusters.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 09 Sector Developments relocated to a new larger facility close to the existing location in Good progress was made during the year in executing the Markham, Ontario.
After a year of consolidation, Vantage is Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in each of the three sectors and the now well positioned, with a strong management team, a solid key developments and results this year are summarised below.
operational foundation and a complete product range, to exploit opportunities for growth in the GI Endoscopy market.
Life Sciences Investment has also been made during the year in building a 2012 2011 new Surgical business to supply specialised surgical instruments m m and devices used in laparoscopic and other minimally invasive Revenue 78.4 74.4 5% surgical procedures.
Exclusive distribution agreements have Adjusted operating profit 18.0 17.1 5% been signed with a number of leading suppliers in this area and Adjusted operating margin 23.0% 23.0% several new suppliers are in the process of being added.
This business will be developed as a distinct division within AMT, Underlying revenue growth of 5%.
As with AMTs former Investment in newly formed Vantage business integrated GIEndoscopy division, this division has the potential of growing sales team, strengthened service and operations into a separate business when it has achieved critical mass management, new facility.
through organic growth and or acquisition.
Investment in new Minimally Invasive Surgery business The DHG business extended geographically in 2010 into withinAMT.
Australia with the acquisition of BGS, a smaller version of the Acquisition of DSL business in Australia major new supplier AMT business in Canada.
In June 2012, DHG expanded its added shortly after acquisition.
presence in Australia through the acquisition of 80% of DSL, which supplies in-vitro diagnostic products to hospitals and The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2012 private laboratories and shares a number of common suppliers by5%on a UK sterling basis, with a similar level of growth on with Somagen.
DSL and BGS serve different customer segments aconstant currency basis.
Sector revenues benefited from the and will be managed as separate business units with their own contribution from the DSL business in Australia, acquired in June distinct sales and marketing identities.
There will however be 2012 and a full year contribution from the CMI business, acquired good opportunities for efficiencies between the businesses in December 2010.
In May 2012, the small Environmental inthe areas of operations and back office functions.
operation in Switzerland was sold to its management thus reducing revenues.
After adjusting for these acquisitions and the The remaining ca.
15% of sector revenues are generated by divestment, for minor currency effects and for the exceptional theGroups Environmental businesses in Europe, which supply sale of face shields in the prior year, underlying sector revenues a range of products used in Environmental Testing and Health & increased by 5%.
CBISS has experienced another strong year of trading, supplying continuous emissions monitoring systems The Groups Healthcare businesses in Canada and Australia and gas detection instruments.
a1-envirosciences has fully Diploma Healthcare Group or DHG account for over 80% consolidated its operations in Dusseldorf, Germany following of the Life Sciences sector revenues.
The DHG business model the sale to management of the small operation in Switzerland.
is built on the supply, on an exclusive basis, of high quality, Northern European markets outside Germany are serviced by manufacturer branded products secured by long term local sales and service resources.
Strong customer relationships are forged through high levels of customer service with highly qualied and Seals experienced technical sales and product application staff working closely with the surgeons, Operating Room OR nurses and 2012 2011 m m laboratory technologists.
A large proportion over 60% of DHGs revenues are secured under multi-year customer contracts.
Revenue 99.9 80.0 25% Adjusted operating profit 20.4 14.9 37% In Canada, DHG comprises three similar sized businesses Adjusted operating margin 20.4% 18.6% focused on Electrosurgery AMT, GI Endoscopy Vantage andClinical Diagnostics Somagen, each with good growth Underlying revenue growth of 13%: particularly strong in potential.
During the year, the main investment has been in the North American Aftermarket.
new Vantage business, which from the start of the year brought Acquisition of J Royal in the US and minority interest in JRPP, together CMI, acquired in 2010, with AMTs Endoscopy division.
Vantage now operates under a single management team and Investment in new modern facilities for RT Dygert and offers a complete product range, taken to market by an AllSeals.
integrated, fully trained sales team.
Investment has been New IT system in development at M Seals to go live in 2013. madein strengthening the management of the operational andservice teams and shortly after the year end, the business Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 10 DIPLOMA PLC Chief Executives Review 2012 Year in Review continued The Seals sector revenues increased, in UK sterling terms, by During the year, significant investment was made in the US 25% to 99.9m which included a contribution from J Royal, businesses to establish a solid foundation for future growth.
After adjusting for this acquisition RTDygert consolidated its Minneapolis and Chicago operations and for modest currency translation effects, underlying sector into a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, while retaining a sales revenues increased by 13%, reecting particularly strong growth office in Chicago.
All Seals invested in new sales resource and in the North American Aftermarket businesses.
Adjusted improved quality and purchasing processes.
All Seals also moved operating profits increased by 37% with adjusted operating into a more appropriate modern facility just before the end of margins increasing by 180bps to 20.4%, driven by operational thenancial year.
leverage from the strong increase in revenues.
The acquisition of J Royal was completed in December 2011 Currently, just under 60% of Seals sector revenues are generated and this has proved a very complementary business to RT from the Aftermarket seals businesses of HFPG Hercules, Dygert and All Seals.
J Royals strength in the Eastern United Bulldog and HKX and FPE.
The core Aftermarket business States ts well with RT Dygert strong in the North and North inNorth America supplies own-brand sealing products often West and All Seals strong in the West and South West.
sourced from the same seal manufacturers who supply to the J Royal also brings its specialist experience in selling metal OEMs across a broad range of mobile machinery applications.
and glass components and assemblies that complement the The key to success in this business is the ability to provide a more traditional sealing products.
The investment in a 10% next day delivery service from inventory, for seals and seal kits shareholding in JRPP, a key supplier to J Royal and based used in a broad range of different manufacturers machinery inChina, reinforced this position.
Typically the first three years of equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through product With the investment this year in new facilities and strengthened warranty and lease terms.
However, after the equipment is management resources and with clear regional sales territories sold into the pre-used market or moves out of warranty, we now agreed, these three Industrial OEM businesses in the US have a very compelling offering to customers by providing a willnow focus on delivering growth in the new financial year.
responsive, next day delivery service for these time critical items.
MSeals in Denmark is also focused on growth with a fast developing business in Sweden and the operation in China having Over a number of business cycles, the Aftermarket seals delivered a solid first year.
The Industrial OEM seal businesses will businesses have demonstrated their resilience, but have also be managed independently by their management teams, but delivered strong underlying growth by taking market share.
they will continue to look for synergies by cross-selling taking This has been achieved by maintaining high levels of customer advantage of different product and end-user specialisations service and product availability and continuing investment in andthrough coordinated purchasing.
IT systems and warehouse automation.
The steady revenue growth over many years has delivered increased operational Controls gearing with operating margins increasing substantially to the 2012 2011 current levels, which are well in excess of 20% of revenues.
m m Revenue 81.9 76.2 7% During the year, the Aftermarket businesses continued to Adjusted operating profit 14.4 13.2 9% benefit from investments made in earlier years and succeeded Adjusted operating margin 17.6% 17.3% in growing revenues by 14% on an underlying basis.
This growth was achieved through a combination of new product Underlying revenue growth of 2% driven by Aerospace & introductions new kits and metric seals in HFPG, broader range Defence, Motorsport, Energy and Industrial sectors: reduced of cylinder parts in FPE and various segment specic marketing activity in Continental Europe and Food & Beverage.
Selective price increases were also introduced to Acquisition of Amfast extends Motorsport fastener business cover supplier cost increases and maintain margins.
particular had an exceptional year, benefiting from the strong Acquisition of Abbeychart extends involvement in Food & rebound in the excavator market in North America and making Beverage sector.
good progress in penetrating international markets.
New Swindon facility will be central management and operational hub for IS-Group businesses in the UK.
The Industrial OEM businesses now account for just over 40% of Seal sector revenues.
These businesses supply seals, The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 7% on a O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts to a range UK sterling basis.
After adjusting for currency effects and for the of specialised Industrial OEM customers.
Our businesses work acquisitions of Amfast and Abbeychart, underlying growth was closely with customers to select the best seal manufacturer 2%.
Adjusted operating profits increased by 9% to 14.4m with for the application, remain close at hand during the product operating margins remaining stable at 17.6%.
development process and provide the logistics capabilities to support from inventory, small to medium sized production runs.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 11 The major end-use segments served by the IS-Group and Summary and Outlook Filcon businesses together ca.
70% of sector revenues are The Groups resilient business model, supplying essential Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and products and solutions to specialised market segments, Industrial.
The businesses supply a range of high performance supports steady organic growth in revenues and sustainable products used in technically demanding applications often in attractive margins.
With a good geographic and end-use spread harsh environments.
Here the business model is focused on of activities, agile and responsive management and a strong providing product for refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance balance sheet, the Group is well placed to withstand the programmes for equipment in service.
Support to major new effectsof the general economic uncertainty.
This has been build programmes is mostly limited to prototype and initial build demonstrated over the last five year business cycle with stages and niche OEM markets.
The businesses offer high aresilient performance during the downturn, followed quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under the bystronggrowth in the recent period of slow recovery.
terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements.
Strong customer relationships are based on ex-stock availability of The investments made during the past financial year, along product, responsiveness, technical advice on product withthe new investment programme in the years ahead, are applications and a range of value added services.
keyto the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in our major businesses.
These investments are designed to provide the solid foundation Plans were nalised during the year, for the relocation of for the growth of the Group over the next five year period.
theIS-Rayfast business into a new modern facility close to theexisting location in Swindon: the move was successfully Bruce Thompson completed in early November of the new financial year.
This Chief Executive Officer facility will accommodate the core IS-Rayfast business and will 19 November 2012 also act as the central management and operational hub for the IS-Group businesses in the UK.
Investment was also made in the acquisition in May 2012 ofAmfast, a specialist distributor of fasteners supplied to the manufacturers of passenger seats, galleys and other interior cabin equipment for civil aircraft.
Amfast shares a number ofsuppliers with Clarendon, which supplies similar fastener products into Motorsport applications.
Clarendon and Amfast will be managed together by a single management team and plans will be developed this year to integrate operational and back office functions.
In early November 2012, after the year end, Sommer completed the acquisition of the assets and goodwill of Rayquick, a small distributor of specialist wiring components supplied to the electricity distribution sector in Germany.
Sommer will integrate this business within its main operations in Stuttgart.
The Hawco Group accounts for ca.
30% of sector revenues and supplies products principally to the Food & Beverage industry.
Hawco supplies a range of control devices used in the sensing, measurement and control of temperature and pressure in applications such as chilled cabinets in food retail chains, bars and restaurants.
In March 2012, the Hawco Group extended its involvement in the sector by investing in the acquisition of Abbeychart.
This business is a specialised component distributor supplying to applications including hot drinks and vending machines, pure water and water cooling systems, soft drinks dispensing equipment and catering equipment.
Abbeycharts broad range of specialised components are used by both the original equipment manufacturers and by contractors and operators for the subsequent repair and maintenance of the equipment.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
