Directors Report Business Overview Interview with the Group Chief Executive Sebastian James The following is taken from a video of an interview with Sebastian James that is available on our corporate website, www.
Dixons and the sector have faced some well-documented challenges in recent years.
How do you see the business now?
We think we are in pretty good shape.
If we think about the last year weve halved our net debt.
We have put in place a new revolving credit facility that will give us bank support for the next three years.
And weve got a terric plan to drive the business forward and improve its performance and profitability in the coming years.
If we consider where we were three or four years ago we had a business where we had really lost sight of the customer in what we were trying to do.
At the same time, the market was getting much morecompetitive.
Of course, we didnt know it then, but we were also heading into a powerful economic storm.
Its been very exciting Above all, we need to be the and made me very proud to be part of a team that really faced those challenges and began to make proper differences, particularly for best electrical retailer who helps our customers.
What are your priorities for the Group?
There are three things that emerge for me as the priorities for the Group, having visited all our businesses and understood what their issues are.
In every market the first and most important thing we need to do isbuild a sustainable position for the business, to really establish our place in the world in that market, to build this position as the place that a customer would rationally choose all the time to buy electrical goods.
The second thing is we have a number of businesses that are performing extremely well, and that are generating good returns.
I need to tackle very hard those areas of the business which perhaps are not generating as good returns.
I need to make sure that we take those businesses and nd solutions that notably give them the right strategic position but also return them to profitability.
08 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Business Overview 3.
Thirdly, weve only just scratched the surface of the potential that How do you measure this?
we have in learning from one another and in leveraging our scale across our Group.
One example would be that we have several suppliers with whom we have significant relationships.
We will look Over the last year and half we have moved our customer advocacy at how we can make these work better for the Group as a whole.
in the UK, and we use a very tough measure of strong advocacy of very likely to recommend us, from 43% to 75%.
If we use the If we do these three things we can improve returns for our measure that a lot of people use in the market which is likely to shareholders.
We needto focus very explicitly as a whole business recommend us we reach 92%.
right down the organisation on doing this.
I am very committed that the whole business begins to think about how it makes sure that While these numbers are comparable with the very best retailers in everyone is doing a great job for our customers, and that generates the UK, I will never be satisfied until we hit 100%.
But this shift is a a return forour shareholders.
profound change in the way customers who shop with us are talking about us, thinking about us and referring to us.
We are not nearly What do you really mean by doing a great there yet.
We have much more to do, but I think its a very powerful job for customers?
signal that we have changed our approach to the world.
We also reward our colleagues in the UK on these metrics and so are explicitly rewarding them for doing a better job for customers.
If I use the UK, as an interesting example, and this holds true also inItaly and Greece and in a number of the territories in which we Isnt the internet a threat to your operate, we have moved from being a business that was all about pile it high, sell it cheap in stores into a business that really takes businessmodel?
seriously the question of how do I make my customers happy?.
Our job is to take customers fears and anxieties and use technology to make their lives better.
I genuinely believe that most of my We must be price competitive with the internet and we must be price colleagues in all of our stores and all of our home delivery vans, competitive with supermarkets, and increasingly we are, very.
In fact are thinking how do I make people happier today.
After all the most we are quite often cheaper than the internet.
expensive thing a customer can do is choose the wrong product.
We can differentiate on service, but it does of course cost more to We, of course, need to be very competitive on price.
But above all provide the convenience of stores as well as service.
We can afford we need to be the people who help customers make great choices.
to do it because we think weve solved a number of very important That means taking the time, the effort to demonstrate, todisplay problems about how we bridge the gap in our cost between our and to understand what customers are trying to achieve when they cost structure and that of a single channel internet operator.
come into our stores looking for electrical goods.
The internet is a friend to us.
We have a very large multi-channel How do you make sure your colleagues business in the UK, and its growing incredibly fast.
We need to think about a world where a customer starts their journey online, goes to candeliver this?
store to look at the product and to make a good choice and might end up ordering it back at home for pick up in-store.
This is a quite normal transaction now.
We have retrained all of our colleagues right the way through the cycle at least three times in the UK.
If you took all of our colleagues So increasingly Im not thinking is this an online or ofine transaction, a year ago and you take all our staff today 85% of the people who but did the customer end up buying from me or did they end up are here today in the UK were also here a year ago.
And in retail buying from somebody else?
And that I think is the critical question.
We are equipping our colleagues every day to do a better job for customers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 09 Directors Report Business Overview Interview with the Group Chief Executive Sebastian James Where customers might be able to go to the internet and choose a So what makes your model sustainable?
box and get it delivered, we will provide the installation, the teaching that helps them to learn how to use it, all the bits and pieces they need as well as the peace of mind that if anything goes wrong they There are four activities we can do that are key strengths of our know where we are.
So these things are very important sources multi-channel service-led business model.
The first very important thing that we need to do is work with Thirdly, we believe that customers will reward us with a small suppliers to understand which products they would like customers premium for providing excellent service, for being there, for giving to choose.
Generally speaking there is a combination of things.
them peace of mind if they trust us.
The customers that are happiest are the ones that buy the products that are best for them, and the products that are best for them are The final thing we need to be is very efficient.
Weve taken a huge usually the newest ones with the best technology.
amount of cost out of our business over the last four years, while improving customer service, and we need to go on doing that.
Suppliers also make more money out of the products that are newer, We need to be really smart about every penny that we spend and because they invest a lot of money in research and then they are able about xing our processes, improving our systems, improving the to charge a premium for those products because they have genuine way we think about our business so that we can be efficient.
differentiating benets for the customer.
With those things together we think we more than bridge the gap With the 40 million conversations a year that we have with customers, between our cost structure and the single channel internet operators.
we can talk to them to explain the benets, demonstrate the newer and better products that make customers happy and which We think we now have a business in which nearly all of the time, in suppliers want to sell.
Our suppliers support us for this work nearly all of the markets, in nearly all of our stores we are providing in a number of ways.
the sort of service that customers want, and are telling us they want.
And we are doing that efficiently and well.
I believe thats a great The second very important thing we need to do is that when springboard and I believe that we are the best and the only show in customers come in and they say they want a piece of hardware town if you want to come and buy electrical goods and have a really such as a television what they mean is they want to do something.
They want to watch the game, they want to entertain the children.
Thats also true for a computer, say, if they want to start a business.
Its the doing that they want to do.
To do so they actually need a whole variety of other things as well as just the box.
Sebastian James Group Chief Executive 10 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
