Chief Executive Officers review Going digital is a real advantage for Dominos.
Customers Introduction who order online have a higher net promoter score, As I arrive at the end of my first year as your CEO, i. e. they recommend us more often.
They themselves we have another set of strong results to share.
Dominos order more often, and spend more.
Importantly a web profit before tax and exceptional items in 2012 reached transaction generates higher margins for our franchisees, a new record level of 46.7m 2011: 42.2m.
This because they do not need to incur labour costs to was an increase of 10.8% 2011: 10.9%, even after answer the phones.
This has saved franchisees many accounting for the planned 3.0m of total start up losses millions of pounds which can be invested into new store in our new German and Swiss businesses.
The core UK openings, for example.
Finally a digital customer is a and Republic of Ireland market saw adjusted diluted EPS customer with whom we have a one-to-one relationship.
This often allows us to market directly to them, and With a record 69 2011: 62 new store openings across indeed by year end we had over three million customers the group, plus the acquisition of 12 Swiss stores, DPG who had agreed to allow us to communicate with them now operates 805 stores in four countries.
We believe Dominos is far ahead of any estate, with the largest sales and profits of any Dominos of our UK competitors in this field: and we intend to master franchise in the world.
But I am clear that most continue exploiting this strategic advantage.
How far can of our growth still lies ahead.
The UK market still has it go?
About three quarters of our sales are delivery, and plenty of scope for store growth, and Germany and in theory all of these could eventually migrate.
Currently Switzerland are virtually virgin territories.
many customers still use the phone to order, but the world is changing: some of our franchisees are now DPG is of course evolving over time, as the business actually reducing the number of phone lines into their grows.
We now operate in four international markets, stores, as they see ever more web orders.
One store has with about 23,000 Dominos people working daily across even removed the phone number from its menus and the HQs, franchisee offices, commissaries, the corporate seen no decline in sales.
and franchised stores, and our transport fleet.
Thats a big business that requires mature processes, disciplines An important and dynamic subset of our digital channel and structures.
We also retain an entrepreneurial streak is mobile, which grew in 2012 by an extraordinary 195% a mile wide, always looking for growth opportunities and to reach 19.7% 2011: 10.1% of all digital sales.
Coming new ways to improve the customer experience.
One area from a mobile industry background myself, I can say that of personal focus is to ensure we remain hungry for this is no accident, but a direct result of our time and growth, even though we are a market leader.
We now have sales channels for all Lets take a look at each of our key markets: the major mobile operating systems iPhone, iPad, Android and Windows 7 as well as recently refreshed UK apps which have scored significantly higher on customer The core UK business grew very strongly in 2012 with ratings than our competitors.
Our iPhone, Android and like-for-like sales up 5.0% year on year 2011: 3.7% and iPad mobile ordering apps won the Best Food & Cooking adjusted PBT for the UK and Republic of Ireland up by award in the Carphone Warehouse Appys 2012, which 14.2% to 49.7m 2011: 43.6m.
It is worth noting that celebrate development and innovation in app technology.
if you remove stores that have split their delivery areas Mobile is set to grow rapidly as a proportion of sales: and and opened a second store in the territory, this like-forwe will stay ahead of the curve.
It is a real competitive like growth was even higher, at 6.6% 2011: 5.1%.
advantage for Dominos that we are fully accessible I am particularly pleased with the good performance wherever and whenever our customers want to order of the core UK business.
environment, low consumer confidence and an economy I am a passionate believer in new product development.
that shrank overall across 2012, we continue to trade This has formed an important part of our 2012 story in well.
We sold a remarkable 61 million freshly made the UK, with 14% 2011: 11.4% of all sales coming from pizzas last year in the system.
One of my favourite items we had not sold a year earlier.
We innovated heavily metrics is that around our stores we currently only serve on our Dominos Stuffed Crust base, launching BBQ, on average 19% of households with delivered Dominos Mexican and other variants through the year.
That leaves about three quarters of all UK launched several new cookie variants, such as triple choc households still to come into the brand, which is a huge and toffee apple, a pork bites side dish, as well as twisted growth opportunity.
Several of our top franchisees are dough balls using our own dough as the main ingredient now serving up to 40% of households.
and new chicken wings in conjunction with Franks Hot Sauce.
We also saw the return of garlic mozzarella sticks The UK business is now fundamentally a digital i. e. web in response to demand from our customers through and mobile business, with 55.7% 2011: 44.3% of social media.
Excellent new products such as these delivered sales ordered online.
By Q4, this figure had create news and interest among the current Dominos reached 60%, and it shows little sign of slowing down.
They give customers a reason to visit us In one recent week we had a dozen stores receiving over more often and allow new users to try us.
They also give 80% of their delivered sales online this seems quite lapsed users a reason to come back and they keep our extraordinary, but is becoming a regularfeature.
06 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Key highlights 5.0% UK like-for-like sales 2011: 3.7% 69 New stores opened 2011: 62 46.7% E-commerce sales 2011: 43.0% In one recent week we had a dozen stores receiving over 80% of their delivery sales online this seems quite extraordinary, but is becoming a regular feature.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 07 Feed 4 for 5 each Dominos is all about sharing, so it was time to create the perfect deal for families and those groups spending a great night in, in front of the TV.
You can still order by phone but 56% ordered online in 2012.
Dominos Pizza Box Office Whats perfect with pizza?
In 2012, we partnered with Lionsgate UK to give our customers the ability to download the latest film releases by ordering a movie direct with their pizza.
08 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 great ideas Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 7:54pm Pizza Ordered!
We are on hand when Dad needs us most Twisted Dough Balls Each year we continue to launch new products to keep our menu fresh and exciting and 2012 was no different.
One addition to the menu was the launch of Twisted Dough Balls, the perfect accompaniment to our pizzas.
These delicious mouthfuls of dough filled with cheese and twisted with the choice of pepperoni, ham or cheese and herb sauce went down a treat with our customers.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 09 7:55pm Our passionate staff are on hand to help Passionate People We have over 23,000 team members, with an average of 30 staff per store.
Some of our franchisees began their careers as in-store team members.
10 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 passionate people Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 7:59pm The fresh dough for your pizza is lovingly prepared with your favourite toppings Trusted Suppliers We have built strong relationships with our suppliers to ensure only the finest ingredients are produced.
8:08pm Your pizza is baked to the finest quality 8:09pm Your pizza is on its way!
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Supporting our communities Our stores are proactive in their local communities, with many of them sponsoring local sports teams and clubs.
Delivery in 23.8 minutes During 2012, we averaged a delivery time of 23.8 minutes throughout all our 8:17pm stores.
Our team members Your piping hot are fanatical about quick, pizza is delivered safe delivery times and we to your door.
are always looking to reduce this by saving seconds in store.
12 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Late night, early morning pizza Some of our stores are now open until 5am, so fresh, hot pizza, may arrive at the same time as fresh, cold milk.
8:37pm Tastebuds are satisfied, room for dessert?
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 satisfied customers Chief Executive Officers review continued Smart price promotions are also an important part of what we do.
While protecting our position as the quality case study leader in the category, we also look for ways to tempt new consumers to try us, and give our current customers an additional purchase opportunity.
During 2012 we continued our Two for Tuesday offer and ran a number of short term, online only deals, helping us to further increase our online sales.
More and more of our promotions are targeted to individual customers or small segments via email and web, which makes them more efficient and measurable.
Our Meal Deal Wizard was launched in 2012 allowing customers using the online channels to ensure they get the very best deal possible.
One thing I have really understood since joining the Dominos board in 2010 is that our obsession with customer service is at the heart of what we do.
In 2012 we kick started what we call the service revolution.
We know that fast delivery of great tasting pizza is the key to happy customers who order more often, so we will never give up challenging ourselves on reducing the delivery time across the system from the very impressive 23.8 minutes on average that we achieved during 2012.
But it is not just about speed: it is also about how we talk Facebook fun to our customers: at the doorstep, in our stores or over Our Facebook fans have increased considerably the phone.
Our training teams conducted 20 in store workshops lasting a week each, showing our franchisees during the year and to ensure we look after what true best practice service looks like.
them we regularly give them the opportunity In 2012 we continued evolving our marketing to reflect to be the first to try our new products.
the ever changing world, and the move of our customers On the launch of our Mexicano Range, we decided to give towards digital ordering.
Our scale allows us to continue them a little something extra in the form of a spoof soap opera with a full suite of traditional marketing tools, including called Los Passiones fide la Familia Verduras.
This soap told the TV, sponsorships, outdoor and leafleting, while tale of the Vegetable Family but there was one thing missing simultaneously adding to our investment in newer tools an ending.
Our customers were asked to devise their own like email, associate sites, search engine optimisation, endings and upload them onto Facebook to win prizes.
This digital display and many others.
By year end we had game was well received by our Facebook fans with 185,677 reached 747,000 2011: 330,000 Facebook Fans in views of the video and 16,892 new Facebook fans added the UK and 68,000 followers on Twitter 2011: 18,000. during this promotion.
case study Workshops Leading up to the Olympics in 2012, we needed to ensure that our stores located in the affected area were prepared for this event.
We devised an Olympics committee and held a workshop on the subject, explaining to all team members the operational changes that were needed during the Games.
Preparing our stores for any change in their environment is vitally important to us.
Dominos receives a lot of attention from students, so it goes without saying that our stores located in university towns are very busy serving those students.
Creating and maintaining this relationship is very important to us, so we hold University Challenge workshops to train our staff on how best to relate to the student market.
14 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements In the UK, we opened 57 2011: 58 new stores in Our e-commerce business continues to grow at a strong 2012, ending the year with 727.
We remain confident rate and is now at 30.4% of all delivered sales, up that 1,200 stores is viable, and the property and 20.2% year on year.
Mobile incidence is particularly franchise development teams are working hard at strong at 19.6% of all e-commerce sales.
identifying optimal sites with our franchisees, finding Brand tracking continues to demonstrate that the stores and gaining planning permission which can Dominos brand is clearly held in high regard in the be a slow and cumbersome process.
it continues to out-perform the competition demonstrate a real appetite for more stores and we on all key attributes of product, service and value.
intend to carry on opening at a similar rate.
This is testament to the continued commitment to Our UK commissaries produce our fresh dough and advertising, a continuous pipeline of product innovation, distribute the food materials needed to our franchisees.
communication of popular bundle meals like The Mega As the volume builds we need only minimal extra deal and The Double deal and never cutting corners in headcount in a world class efficient commissary such terms of product quality and our franchisees relentless as Milton Keynes.
In addition our procurement team drive to service their customers quickly and reliably.
We can use our scale to buy better, and to protect against have been particularly encouraged by the growth seen commodity price risks.
from extended trading hours, with sales post midnight up 60.4%, in part benefitting from the communication Our 124 UK franchisees are at the very heart of this of late night opening on TV.
We work with them every day, hand in hand.
They now have an average of about 6.3 2011: 5.7 Ireland however continues to be a very tough trading stores each.
Stores are showing improving sales, environment.
We have worked closely with our Irish operating efficiencies and in turn improving profitability franchisees during the last year and I have been really faster than the rate of sales growth.
Having such strong impressed with their tenacity.
After almost four years franchisees gives DPG and the Dominos brand real of an Irish downturn, only one of the 49 Irish Dominos financial stability, financial strength to grow even in a stores has closed.
Our competitors have suffered recession and, of course, passionate and committed muchmore.
It is a huge privilege and pleasure to work No one can confidently predict the turn of the economic withthem.
tide in Ireland, but when it comes, Dominos Pizza will Of special note is UK Franchisee Pali Grewal, who be ready and waiting.
In the meantime the stores there in 2012 repeated his 2010 feat of being crowned continue to generate some of the best operational Worlds Fastest Pizza maker at the global franchisee metrics anywhere in the world, and to delight our event held in Las Vegas.
Republic of Ireland Germany Despite the tough economic environment, like-for-like Having inherited just two stores back in April 2011 and sales, in Euros, stabilised at -0.2%.
This improved reaching six a year ago, we now have 18 open.
There is result was on the back of very hard work by our Irish a full pipeline of planned openings in 2013.
This is a franchisees, backed by DPG.
Irish sales are 31% down rapid pace of growth which has been challenging but from the peak in 2007 but despite this, only one of hugely exciting.
In the past year we have seen our first our 49 Irish Dominos stores has ever closed.
franchisee run stores and we have several more coming aboard in the next few months.
case study Stuffed Crust Following the successful launch of our Dominos Stuffed Crust pizza in 2011, we decided to introduce some new flavours to this product and in 2012 we launched a Saucy BBQ Stuffed Crust and the Ring of Fire Stuffed Crust, which is lined with a fiery hot sauce to really liven up those tastebuds.
Future development will continue on this product with more ideas currently in thepipeline.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Chief Executive Officers review continued Our confidence in and enthusiasm for the German opportunity has grown steadily with more on the ground case study experience.
Our earliest Berlin stores saw their like-for-likes grow by 19.3% and 24.1% respectively in 2012 as we Stores opened in Switzerland learned ever more about menu and marketing preferences in Germany.
Other key indicators look good too our first In 2012, Dominos acquired the master franchise three franchise stores in the West have achieved average for Switzerland, which also came with the rights weekly unit sales AWUS of over 12.2k in Q4 with one store now regularly achieving an AWUS of 18K and our to open and operate stores in Luxembourg new flagship corporate store in Dsseldorf opened in and Liechtenstein.
November and achieved sales of over 18k in its first The Swiss market currently has 12 stores and we have plans to open week.
It is still early days, we still have much to learn, an additional 25 stores within the next five years.
In the longer term, but we are seeing some really encouraging numbers.
we believe this new market has the capacity for around 65 stores.
We expect to add 18 more stores in 2013, doubling the We have also secured an option to acquire the master franchise German footprint to 36 stores.
This is an acceleration in the rights for Austria before the end of 2014. store opening programme compared to the 14 stores in the This further expansion into Europe is an exciting time for us.
In parallel we will continue to continue to build the brand and create a successful arm to our drive weekly sales upwards in our current stores.
We are already existing business is a challenge we look forward to.
investing for growth, building the required commissary and staffing capacity for the future business.
As a result of the accelerated store opening programme and further investment in the central resources to support this growth we are expecting marginally higher losses in 2013 and 2014.
We are still on track to reach profitability by the end of 2015.
Our Berlin commissary was relocated and substantially upgraded in 2012 and now has capacity to supply at least 50 stores.
We will be building a commissary in the west of the country in the coming year, which will add capacity for 100 more stores.
All this reflects the momentum and our confidence in the German opportunity.
Switzerland In the second half of 2012 we acquired the master franchise agreement for Dominos Switzerland, and took over operation of the 12 stores there.
This business has suffered from systemic under-investment and lack of scale.
We strongly believe Switzerland can eventually host at least 50 stores and make solid profits.
We expect it to be operating profitably by the end of 2014 and we have already begun the process of updating the stores, systems and menus, with an immediate rise in sales.
Other international opportunities Going forward With the Swiss deal we also obtained the rights to operate Despite a very challenging economic environment, and franchise Dominos Pizza stores in Luxembourg and our people and our franchisees have delivered another Liechtenstein.
We also hold an option to acquire the master impressive set of results.
This performance further franchise agreement for Austria before the end of 2014. demonstrates the resilience of the Dominos Pizza We will keep all those opportunities under review.
with the four markets we already operate in, this represents We are making encouraging progress in Germany.
This even more international opportunity ahead.
market has good demographics for our business and we Current trading are seeing improving trading performances from these We have had a solid start to the first seven weeks of 2013, stores.
I look forward to reporting further progress in with like-for-like sales in the UK mature stores up by 1.6% due course.
Clearly the recent spell of poor weather and I am optimistic about the future and, with the support of widespread snow in week three and week four has had an our franchisees, we will continue to grow this outstanding adverse impact on trading.
During these two weeks, we business by focusing on opening new stores, testing new had a total of 498 stores closed at some point almost store formats and developing new products while always two-thirds of our UK store network was impacted.
Excluding ensuring the customer is at the heart of everything we do.
the days these stores were closed, the underlying like-forlike sales run rate was 2.6% which is an encouraging earlytrend.
Lance Batchelor Stores in the Republic of Ireland were not affected by the Chief Executive Officer snow and are in positive territory, with like-for-like sales 22 February 2013 in the mature stores up 3.9% over the first seven week reporting period.
16 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
