Drax Group plc Annual report and 06 accounts 2012 Chief Executives statement Driving our strategy forward Introduction I am very pleased to say that 2012 was a good and extremely important year for the Group.
Good in the sense that the business performed well delivering profits in line with expectations underpinned by continued strength in operations, and important in that we now have the clear mandate, means and expertise to transform Drax into a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator.
Through the year we made excellent progress with our biomass research and development work.
We demonstrated that we could operate a single generating unit on a fully converted basis for a sustained period and we delivered very encouraging results from our engineering optimisation work.
As a result we gained full confidence in our ability to deliver reliable and exible renewable power through converted units at attractive rates of efficiency and output.
The much needed regulatory clarity and certainty was delivered in the Governments conclusions on the future support levels for biomass electricity and proposals for sustainability criteria, which saw clear recognition of the true benets of biomass and its potential to play a strategically important role in the UKs future energy mix.
The final piece of the jigsaw, securing the means to finance our biomass strategy, was achieved through raising a mixture of equity and debt.
Equity of 190 million was raised through a share placing, and we secured new debt of 200 million through term loan facilities with M&G UK Companies Financing Fund and the UK Green Investment Bank, at 100 million each.
In addition, our working capital letter of credit facility was increased to 400 million and the maturity extended to April 2016.
All in all, 2012 was a positive and pivotal year marking real progress in our journey to transform the business, whilst maintaining our focus on excellence in operations, and disciplined capital project execution across our generation and retail businesses.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 07 With Phase II surplus bankable in Phase III Strategy a range of interventions is being considered Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, customer by the European Commission to rectify the oriented power generation and retail business, over-supply, but these are by no means certain driven by biomass innovation.
key strategic initiatives to enable us to achieve Dark green spreads, the difference between the our vision, namely, our project to convert price of power and the cost of coal and carbon, Drax Power Station into a predominantly have been relatively good for coal-red generators.
biomass-fuelled generating asset and our programme for the expansion of our retail The introduction to the UK of the carbon price business, Haven Power Limited Haven Power support mechanism from April 2013 is likely through growing our sales to businesses.
to erode the competitive position in the market of our coal-red generation business, but at the same time it strengthens the case Commodity markets for biomass generation.
The gas market continued to be the dominant During 2012, bark spreads for co-ring, the factor in driving power prices.
The impact of difference between power price and renewable the incident at one of Japans nuclear power support and the cost of biomass, remained weak stations continued to be felt through the with most traded biomass commanding lower countrys increased demand for liqueed natural margins than coal.
Consequently, the amount of gas LNG and consequent increasing Asian commercial biomass burnt during the year was LNG prices.
As a result the UK saw reduced much lower than previous years.
Substantially LNG imports and gas prices remained strong.
all of the biomass burnt during the period was Accordingly, some gas-red plant capacity was at a loss, but in support of critical research and withdrawn from the market and in some cases development work.
The Governments new support levels for biomass International coal prices were weak as a result electricity through conversion and co-ring come of excess supply.
Exports from the US to Europe, into effect in April 2013.
We expect co-ring in particular, increased signicantly.
A combination at low levels to remain uneconomic, but generation of low prices and high stocks put pressure on the through converted units will become economic UKs domestic coal producers.
and yield attractive rates of return on the required Carbon prices remained at their lowest point for capital investment.
over three years driven by over-supply of carbon emissions allowances in Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading System EU ETS.
As of 1 January 2013, we entered into Phase III of the EU ETS, which introduced 100% auctioning of allowances to the power sector a departure from receiving allowances in the previous Phases.
Over the following pages we highlight some of the progress were making across our key priorities Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 08 accounts 2012 One of our key priorities Grow our retail business Well established and growing With substantial sales growth delivered in 2012, further growth of our retail business, Haven Power, is planned.
This will bring with it an increasingly important direct route to market for our power sales.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 09 Chief Executives statement We continued to work on increasing our burn of Retail performance fuels which have a higher margin or lower carbon During 2012 our retail business, Haven Power, footprint over the standard bituminous coal which delivered substantial growth in a highly competitive we burn.
These advantaged fuels petcoke, pond market with retail sales over 60% higher than in fines and commercial or economic biomass 2011.
Sales growth remains a key priority for the accounted for 7% of the total fuel burnt during business, targeting the industrial and commercial the year.
I&C, and small and medium enterprise SME Assessment of the technical solutions available markets.
Due to our continued drive for growth to us for compliance with the more stringent across these markets we expect Haven Power to emissions standards of the Industrial Emissions make a modest loss up to 2015.
Directive from 2016 is well advanced.
The key An excellent standard of customer service factors in determining the optimal solution for is central to our proposition for this business, compliance are plant exibility and fuel mix.
and we were pleased to see recognition of Hence, the level of biomass burn is an important that through being ranked No.
The legislative arrangements in place satisfaction in the SME market in the 2012 afford us some exibility in the timing and the extent Datamonitor Survey.
of the required modications which ts well with our biomass conversion programme.
Selling our output through Haven Power continues to provide us with a credit-efficient route to market for our power sales compared to the wholesale Biomass transformation electricity market, as well as a route to market for During the year we completed our engineering the Renewables Obligation Certicates and Levy designs of the plant modications and new facilities Exemption Certicates associated with our required for unit conversion.
We made good renewable power generation.
progress on the time critical construction of the receipt, storage and delivery systems for biomass, Generation performance including the erection of the first two biomass storage domes.
Building on the early work We continued to deliver industry-leading performance undertaken in 2012 and making use of the existing in 2012 amid higher than ever output levels, and biomass co-ring infrastructure we believe it will be significant project and construction activity.
technically feasible to convert single units in 2013, As in previous years, our load factor was high 2014 and 2015.
However, the actual timing is compared to other thermal capacity on the system dependent on biomass fuel sourcing.
and we recorded our highest ever generation We have made good progress towards securing out-turn level.
With high availability and reliability sufficient biomass to run two converted units and throughout 2012 we were able to continue to deliver we plan to convert the first unit in April 2013 and additional value to the business through providing the second unit in 2014.
We are now in advanced exible generation output and balancing services negotiations for a large proportion of the biomass to the System Operator, National Grid, in support necessary to fuel the third unit.
Established North of system stability and security.
American suppliers, Enviva, Green Circle, Pinnacle Two planned unit outages were undertaken during and Plum Creek are amongst those with whom 2012, and both were completed in good time.
we have entered into term contracts for the supply With two outages and considerable biomass of wood pellets and sustainable forest bre.
project work activity, the number of engineering man-hours worked throughout the year was significant.
Yet against this backdrop our safety statistics continued to be industry-leading, reecting the emphasis we place on safety.
For the year, our forced outage rate, which measures any reduction in plant availability excluding planned outages, was close to our long-term target of 5%, which has been set through extensive benchmarking with UK and international coal-red plants to determine the optimum balance between performance and cost.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 10 accounts 2012 Chief Executives statement Elsewhere in the supply chain, at the end of 2012 the final investment decision was taken to develop two US-based pellet plants, one in each of the states of Mississippi and Louisiana, with a combined capacity of 900,000 tonnes a year, and to invest in a port facility in Louisiana with an export capacity of 3 million tonnes a year.
We are now nalising the construction arrangements for these facilities.
In addition, terms have been agreed with UK port operators to provide us with biomass import facilities.
This will involve the development of new facilities and the expansion of existing ones.
Finally, the fabrication of bespoke rail wagons to transport biomass from the ports to the power station is underway.
Biomass sustainability All our biomass is procured against our own robust sustainability criteria, which include greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements, and habitats and biodiversity protection, as well as socio-economic considerations in the source areas.
A programme of independent audits ensures all our suppliers comply with our sustainability criteria.
We rmly believe that robust, mandatory sustainability criteria are vital to maintain and 1 2 enhance public acceptance, and ensure that sustainable practices are implemented.
Assessment of the full life cycle carbon footprint of biomass, that is, from eld or forest-to-furnace, is now well developed, especially in the UK where a mandatory life cycle standard is scheduled to come into effect later this year.
Securing supplies of Increasing capacity With a number of years experience of calculating sustainable biomass of US port handling the life cycle carbon footprint of all the biomass Further progress has been made in securing In support of our US-based pellet plant we procure, we are confident that our sustainable rights for the supply of sustainable biomass.
operations and wood pellet supply biomass fuel sources will meet the UKs new Additionally, at the end of 2012 the decision contracts, the decision has been taken was taken to invest upstream through the to invest in a US port facility, in the state mandatory standard which will ensure we continue development of US-based pellet plants.
Our calculations show that the range of sustainable biomass materials we have burnt over the last few 3 4 years has a far lower carbon footprint than that of fossil fuel-red generating plant.
In 2012, the average greenhouse gas saving, over the full life cycle, resulting from burning sustainable biomass in place of coal was above 80%.
UK handling and Pioneering the conversion transportation of existing generating units Agreements are in place for the expansion Development of the necessary infrastructure of UK port throughput capability to support at Drax Power Station is well advanced, from our imports of sustainable biomass pellets.
a new rail unloading facility, through storage Bespoke rail wagons have been designed domes and delivery system to the modied and are being fabricated to transport the boilers.
In terms of the sheer scale and pellets from the ports to the power station.
quality, the transformation is unparalleled.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11 1 One of our key priorities Deliver our biomass strategy Putting an infrastructure in place The biomass supply chain is not yet well established.
We are investing and working with partners to build and strengthen each of the links in the supply chain from eld or forest-to-furnace.
2 3 4 Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 12 accounts 2012 One of our key priorities Maintaining operational excellence Making the best better The power station is now benefiting from the completion of the 100 million project to upgrade our high and low pressure turbines, which is delivering an overall efficiency improvement and a reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide.
The three generating units being converted to biomass will also benefit from investment in upgrading the intermediate pressure turbines, which is due to commence in 2014.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Chief Executives statement CfD will replace the Renewables Obligation in 2017 Further carbon abatement for new renewable generation facilities, but not In addition to the carbon dioxide CO2 savings those already in operation.
We are exploring the CfD through burning sustainable biomass in place of mechanism for biomass and have participated in a coal, we have also progressed other carbon call for evidence, launched by National Grid as part abatement activities.
of its potential role as delivery body, to support the development of strike prices under the mechanism.
The low pressure and high pressure turbine modules of all six generating units have now been replaced We have also had preliminary discussions with the and are operating as expected.
This means we are Department of Energy & Climate Change on the operating at an overall, coal-based efficiency for possibility of securing long-term contracts to enable the power station of around 40%, and through this early investment in advance of the CfD mechanism upgrade alone we are reducing our CO2 emissions coming into force.
We have also taken the decision to upgrade the Looking ahead intermediate pressure turbines of the three We enter 2013 with a strong hedge from forward generating units that will be converted to biomass.
power sales, but with no national carbon emissions The first will be undertaken during 2014.
This will allocation under Phase III of the EU ETS and, from deliver further efficiency improvement benets.
April, increased carbon costs under the UK carbon Siemens will again be responsible for the price support mechanism.
Both of these changes manufacture and assembly of the turbines from are recognised in current stock market forecasts.
its facility in Mlheim with installation support from Siemens in Newcastle.
We intend to continue our hard work to deliver leading operating and cost performance and to Together Drax, Alstom UK and BOC a member retain our focus on building options to burn of The Linde Group have formed a consortium advantaged fuels.
in support of the White Rose Carbon Capture and Storage CCS Project, a proposed 426MW With a commitment to deliver value to our oxyfuel CCS demonstration project based at the shareholders, we are now in full execution mode to Drax Power Station site.
At the beginning of July transform Drax into a predominantly biomass-fuelled 2012 the consortium, in conjunction with National generator.
In doing so we are confident that we will Grid Carbon Limited, submitted a bidder proposal not only secure an attractive future for the business for funds through the UK CCS Commercialisation and our shareholders, but also deliver a significant Programme, which was launched in April 2012. amount of cost-effective renewable power for the consumer and make a meaningful contribution to At the end of October 2012, the White Rose CCS the UKs 2020 climate change targets.
Project was one of four shortlisted for the next phase of the UK competition.
The consortium is fully engaged in the process, but the project will be dependent on successful outcomes from external funding processes and Electricity Market Reform mechanisms to incentivise low carbon technologies.
Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive Legislative framework 18 February 2013 In November 2012, the Energy Bill was introduced to Parliament marking the start of its passage through both the House of Commons and the House of Lords.
At the heart of the Bill is Electricity Market Reform, which will see, amongst other things, the introduction of Contracts for Difference CfD providing long-term contracts and a stable revenue stream enabling investment in low carbon generating technologies, and a capacity market to mitigate future risks to the security of electricity supplies.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
