Chief Executives statement Miles Roberts Overview to acquire SCA Packaging excluding its increase was driven by volume growth in 2011 12 has been a year of transformation kraftliner assets for 1.6 billion, which will corrugated box sales, of 2 per cent, coupled for DS Smith, in which we took several make DS Smith the second largest provider of with strict pricing discipline, recovering significant steps along the path to our strategic corrugated packaging in Europe, and deliver cost increases promptly.
Operating profit goal: to become the leading supplier of a pan-European footprint.
We are funding the increased 28 per cent to 142.0 million recycled packaging for consumer goods, acquisition, in part, with an issue of equity and 2010 11: 110.9 million, an increase of with improved medium-term financial we were delighted with the strong support of 20 per cent excluding the impact of acquisitions performance.
We are doing this by growing our shareholders.
This acquisition has received and currency.
EPS increased 28 per cent our packaging and recycling businesses, all the necessary clearances from the despite the dilutive effect of the equity issue reducing our exposure to paper manufacturing competition authorities and we are on track that completed in February 2012.
This result and disposing of non-core businesses.
to complete it, as planned, at the end of follows the prior year where EPS increased June 2012.
We delivered great improvements during the first full year of ownership of the French Notwithstanding this period of considerable The Group has increased its corrugated business, Otor, which we acquired in change, I am delighted to report that our box volumes and made good progress in September 2010.
In June 2011 we announced operations have performed very well.
Unless each of its major markets.
This progress was the closure of one paper mill, and in September otherwise indicated, all references to operating achieved by focusing on what our customers 2011 we announced the sale of a second, profit, return on sales, return on average capital value service, quality and innovation.
in aggregate reducing our UK paper capacity employed and earnings per share EPS, are by an annual run-rate of approximately Delivering against our Key on the basis of continuing operations, before Performance Indicators 120 thousand tonnes.
We disposed of our exceptional items and amortisation of We have delivered results within our Ofce Products Wholesaling division, Spicers, intangible assets.
previously stated target range for all our in December 2011, fullling our strategic aim of streamlining the Group and releasing capital In 2011 12 the Groups revenues grew Key Performance Indicators in relation to be used in developing the core business.
by 12 per cent, up 8 per cent excluding to our financial metrics, customer service, employees and environmental performance.
In January 2012 we announced our intention the impact of acquisitions and currency.
This Improved operating per formance www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 4 Business Review A business model for sustainable growth Our business model is designed to deliver, consistently, a return on capital above our cost of capital.
The design and manufacture of corrugated packaging is at the heart The balance of our business million tonnes of our business, supported by our paper and our recycling businesses.
Corrugated packaging Long 1.2 In the markets that we operate in, we choose to be a net buyer of CCM manufacture 0.7 Short paper from third parties, as there are plenty of external suppliers of this commodity.
We regard our recycling business as a way to connect Fibre collection Long 1.8 with retailers to develop the market for corrugated packaging, as well as providing us with ownership of paper bre.
Excluding output from Hollins Mill, scheduled to close in calendar H2 2012 1.
Paper Recycled paper is made from to our paper mills.
We see our We manufacture corrugated case t CCM volume 2011 12: recovered bre, principally from recycling operations as more than material CCM, the paper used 0.7 million tonnes used corrugated boxes and other a sourcing operation.
They also to make corrugated packaging.
t Other paper sales volume used paper and card.
It is a connect us with our customers We are a net buyer of CCM, 2011 12: 0.4 million tonnes scarce resource that is traded customer, the retailer.
By manufacturing only the amount t Customers: corrugated box internationally.
We have a engaging with major retailers strategically necessary to ensure manufacturers.
63 per cent of substantial business in the UK about the bene ts of corrugated consistent economic supply.
We our CCM is used by our own box collecting used corrugated and packaging, we seek to drive also manufacture a small amount operations and the remainder is other bre direct from retailers.
growth in the market for of other paper grades.
All of our non-CCM grade This gives us security of supply corrugated packaging.
paper is sold externally Key raw materials: recovered bre.
In the UK all of our bre is sourced from our own recycling business.
In Europe the bre is currently sourced externally.
Approximately 1.1 tonnes of bre are needed Customers such as: to make 1.0 tonnes of paper.
Tesco, Sainsbury, M&S, Morrisons Recovered bre collected in 2011 12: CCM manufactured in 2011 12: 1.8m tonnes 0.7m tonnes 4.
Corrugated packaging The retailer buys products We design, manufacture and from the FMCG manufacturer.
deliver corrugated packaging to They will specify the type of our customers, delivering the high packaging that they prefer, to standards of service and quality they that manufacturer.
Our corrugated packaging then crushes and bales up its customers in 2011 12 were over used corrugated boxes at the 70 per cent fast-moving consumer back of the store.
goods FMCG manufacturers and the remainder are other industrial DS Smith buys used cardboard customers, such as car makers.
from many of the largest Our largest customer comprises Key raw material: paper.
retailers in the UK through c. 3 per cent of Group revenue.
c. 34 per cent of our paper its recycling businesses.
requirement is sourced from our t Total sales volume in own mills and the remainder 2011 12: 1.2 million is bought from third parties.
tonnes 2.4 billion square metres t Customers: product manufacturers, Total sales volume in 2011 12: e. g. grocery products and home care products through to car parts 2.4bn sq metres DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5 Chief Executives statement continued expenditure during the year has been Volume in our corrugated box business grew approximately 171 million once all on packaging or recycling, our strategic balancing cash items such as tax at 2 per cent in line with our target of GDP 1 per cent for the markets in which we operate.
On completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition, our net Return on sales improved a further 90 basis Average working capital, as a proportion debt EBITDA ratio is expected to be points to 7.2 per cent 2010 11: 6.3 per of revenue, fell to 4.9 per cent in 2011 12 moderately above our medium-term target cent, in line with our target of 7 9 per cent.
The working capital level of 2.0x.
However, as previously This has been driven by the tight control of improvement has been driven by focused announced, it is expected to reduce to costs and a focus on efficiency throughout the attention on all three areas of debtors, the targeted level by the end of the first business, and also a focus on prompt input-cost inventory and creditors.
full financial year after completion.
recovery through pricing where necessary.
The Group was highly cash generative in Underpinning the delivery of all our financial Return on average capital employed increased the year with free cash ow of 94.5 million targets has been the Groups decision to 310 basis points to 14.6 per cent 2010 11: 2010 11: 72.0 million.
The ratio of be a net purchaser of paper, rather than 11.5 per cent, towards the upper end of the operating cash ow, before investment capital a fully integrated producer.
By being long target range of 12 15 per cent and well expenditure, as a proportion of operating profit, in packaging and short in paper, we have above our estimated weighted average cost was 139 per cent, exceeding our target of had the ability to adjust corrugated prices of capital of c. 10 per cent.
This increase was maintaining this ratio above 120 per cent, quickly where we have needed to and to take driven by improved profitability and strong with the outperformance primarily driven by decisions which may have short-term impacts control of the capital base, including working the working capital in-ow over the year.
on volume, where they have benefited the capital.
Return on average capital employed financial performance overall.
is our primary financial measure of success, As at 30 April 2012, the Group had a net as it underpins the sustainability of both our cash position due to the cash raised through On customer service, our key measure investment strategy and our dividend policy.
an equity issue in February to fund in part the of on-time, in-full delivery improved from This metric is our highest priority.
All senior acquisition of SCA Packaging.
Cash ow in 96 per cent to 97 per cent in line with our management have a return on capital target the year also benefited from the sale of Spicers, target.
The reason this metric is important included within their incentivisation where net proceeds amounted to 184.5 million is because it underpins our aim to be arrangements.
73 per cent of capital in this financial year, and are expected to be a trusted, responsive business partner.
Key Performance Indicators: measuring our progress, delivering value We have set testing medium-term targets.
We aim to satisfy our four key stakeholders customers, employees, shareholders and the environment because we believe that this is the way to build a sustainable business.
1 Metric Denitions FY 2010 11 FY 2011 12 Target Customer service The proportion of customer orders that are delivered within On-time, in-full delivery the required time-slot, in full 96% 97% 97% Financial Volume growth of our corrugated box products, excluding Like-for-like volume growth the effect of acquisitions and disposals 3% 2% GDP 1% Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, as a percentage Return on sales of revenue 6.3% 7.2% 7 9% Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, as a percentage Return on average capital employed of the average capital employed over the 12 month period 11.5% 14.6% 12 15% Net debt at the period end over earnings before interest, tax, Net debt EBITDA depreciation and amortisation for the preceeding 12 month period 1.6x net cash 2.0x Cash generated from operations, before investment capital Operating cash ow operating profit expenditure, as a percentage of earnings before interest and tax 125% 139% 120% Employee Accident frequency rate The number of lost time accidents per million hours worked 8.79 6.85 nil Environmental -20% in CO revenue kg 000 Total CO emissions Scope 1 and 2 divided by revenue 518 435 10 years 2 2 1.
All KPIs are calculated in respect of the Groups continuing operations, excluding amortisation and exceptional items www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6 Business Review An effective strategy driving progress DS Smith aims to be the leading supplier of recycled packaging because it is an attractive, growing market.
By focusing on our financial aims, we will deliver attractive, sustainable returns to our shareholders.
This matrix sets out the building blocks of how we intend to achieve this.
Our aim To become the leader in recycled packaging for consumer goods Our implementation strategy Improving our Differentiating by Ef ciency Developing a winning culture business mix adding value Building on existing foundations Our strategy in action Service is core to our business Innovation is driving pro ts Quality is our trademark Financial aim Strategic aim Achievements in 2011 12 t Drive the use of retail-ready packaging t Underlying volume growth in corrugated box sales 2 per cent Consistent GDP growth t Build our business across Europe t Underlying revenue growth 8 per cent t Announced acquisition of SCA Packaging, building a pan-European footprint t Target FMCG customers to reduce volume t FMCG customer base expanded Reduced cyclicality cyclicality across products t Sold one paper mill and announced closure of a second, t Reduce exposure to paper production total reduction c. 120kt t Reduce the price review period in contracts t Recycling business expansion into central and eastern Europe t Increase the recycling business t Delivering a high quality product differentiated t Operating pro t margin up 90 basis points bps to 7.2 per cent Higher operating by service, quality and innovation pro t margins t Disposed of our Of ce Products Wholesaling division increased t Improve ef ciency margin target from 6 8 per cent to 7 9 per cent t Customer service up from 96 per cent to 97 per cent on-time, in-full t 10.0 million cost synergies delivered from Otor t Substantial growth from R-Flute t 13 million savings delivered from procurement t Grow our packaging and recycling businesses t Business mix towards corrugated packaging, paper output Returns on capital to reduce by c. 120kt above our cost t Reduce working capital from 8 per cent to 5 per of capital cent of revenue t Working capital reduced to under 5 per cent of revenue t Reduce the proportion of paper manufacturing t ROACE up 310 bps to 14.6 per cent in the Group t Announced acquisition of SCA Packaging expected to deliver a return on investment above our cost of capital in the first full year of ownership DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 7 Chief Executives statement continued Our innovation programme has been 3 per cent of the revenue of the acquired It has been a great year for DS Smith, with hard work from our employees, all of whom developed in the year to co-ordinate this activity business.
In 2011 12 we delivered savings throughout the business.
We provide customers of 10.0 million and are on target to deliver have played their part in delivering the with packaging that use less bre, with less the full amount as planned.
excellent results we are reporting today.
carbon and less cost, through technology.
Outlook Our procurement team had a target of Examples are the continued roll out of R-Flute Since the start of this new financial year, the delivering a run-rate of 10.0 million cost in the year, the use of our software solutions good trading performance reported for the savings by April 2012.
I am delighted with the PackRight and the development of the year 2011 12 has continued, with good performance of this team, with 13.0 million mechanisation solutions, which maximise performance from packaging and, as delivered in 2011 12 alone, of which around the performance of our packaging.
expected, a more challenging market for our half relates to capital expenditure projects.
Completion on the The typical saving from procurement projects DS Smith has a commitment to provide every SCA Packaging acquisition is expected to has been approximately 10 per cent and employee with a safe and productive working take place on 30 June 2012.
The key drivers this team has become an integrated part of environment.
I am very pleased that our in this financial year will be the integration of the business.
The procurement function will accident frequency rate for the continuing SCA Packaging and delivery of the associated be central to delivering procurement savings business has dropped 22 per cent year-on-year.
cost and cash synergies we have previously following completion of the acquisition of The rate of improvement is principally due to identied, along with the underlying SCA Packaging, and their delivery this year the roll out of our safety practices in the plants performance of the enlarged Group.
demonstrates the capability within DS Smith.
previously part of the Otor business, as well as continued work throughout the Group.
Our With regard to SCA Packaging, as previously In December 2010 we set out a target to ultimate target is a zero accident rate and we announced, we continue to expect that in the reduce average working capital from 8 per cent continue to strive to achieve this.
Lastly, on the first 12 months of ownership the acquired of revenue to 5 per cent, over the three years environment, our CO emissions revenue business inclusive of synergies will deliver a 2 to April 2014.
As set out above, we have now improved by 16 per cent.
return above the Groups pre-tax cost of capital delivered that, two years ahead of schedule, of c. 10 per cent.
The economic conditions with working capital at an average of 4.9 per Delivery against our existing across Europe remain challenging.
DS Smith is cost-savings targets cent of revenue in 2011 12. positioned to perform well in this environment, In addition to planning for the SCA Packaging Culture due to our resilient customer base, the acquisition, we have maintained our focus on Setting out our strategy in 2010, I said that opportunity for substantial cost and cash our previously announced cost savings targets culture would be a key element to its successful synergies as previously announced, and our in relation to the existing business.
Since then, this has been an track record of delivering sustainable returns area of important focus throughout the Group In respect of the UK efficiency target to deliver in challenging market conditions.
Accordingly, and we have made considerable progress 10 million savings by April 2014, we have the Board views the prospects for the enlarged this year.
We have launched a new set of accelerated our plans with additional Group in the coming year with confidence corporate values, which are to be caring, restructuring and are ahead of our original plan, and expects to make continued progress.
challenging, trusted, responsive and tenacious, with a run-rate of 7.8 million delivered as we and which are brought together under a exit 2011 12.
This is principally due to more programme of communication under the co-ordinated working between the paper and banner OWN IT!.
These values apply to the packaging businesses in the UK, for all of us throughout the organisation, in both example in the area of logistics where we our dealings with customers and with each now operate a more integrated eet.
We have Miles Roberts, Group Chief Executive other.
We have undertaken a detailed roll-out announced the creation of a shared services programme with every member of staff, in centre in the UK to improve the efficiency conjunction with their team and line manager, of our back-ofce support functions, which working through how these values apply to will become operational over the coming them and their work and how they contribute 12 to 18 months.
personally to the success of DS Smith.
We will Our French business had a target of be rolling these out to our new colleagues delivering 13.0 million synergies from the Otor following completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition by April 2013, a target which had acquisition to help all our people to understand originally started at 9.3 million, equivalent to what it means to work for DS Smith.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8 Business Review A sustainable business model, creating value through differentiation on a pan-European scale DS Smith Recycling prides itself on the level of service offered to customers.
We make thousands of collections per day, across the UK.
Our transport Service eet operates out of 15 recycling facilities.
Our customers rely on us regularly collecting their used paper and board, and we then ensure it is recycled, with nothing to land ll.
Tesco has been a customer of DS Smith Recycling in the UK for over 25 years.
We were delighted when they chose us to manage their recycling and residual waste streams in Poland as part of a total waste management contract.
We now collect from over 400 sites in Poland, covering all major towns and cities.
This provides an excellent platform for us to grow in this important developing region.
The Impact and Innovation Centres in the UK and France have proved to be a successful format for demonstrating to customers and retailers the bene ts Innovation that packaging, designed by DS Smith, can bring.
In April 2012 the new Impact and Innovation Centre in 2 Poland opened.
The 300 m space was adapted to show the supermarket, back of store and warehousing areas in order to present the DS Smith expertise and understanding of the FMCG packaging.
Customers are able to inspect wide ranging examples of best practice across all categories, get to grips with leading edge developments and conduct practical experiments with their own packaging in order to generate solutions for better sales and pro ts.
DS Smith worked closely with valued customer Chivas Brothers and leading brand Chivas Regal, to create a consumer pack to promote their 4.5L bottle Quality of 12 year old Premium Blended Scotch Whisky.
The bottle is housed in a creatively designed cradle for dispensing, held securely within the pack.
The result is an impressive EFIA 2011 award-winning corrugated pack that is post printed in 5 colours with a varnish.
The print includes a stylish metallic silver look, produced to complement the gift carton pack.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9
