Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 9 Chief Executives review Nick Wharton Chief Executive Overview Strategy development Against the background of the UK economy We continue to invest in and develop the which has continued to put pressure on both business with a strong focus on our four consumer confidence and expenditure, during strategic priorities.
the last financial year the business has made further strong strategic progress and delivered Priority 1 develop our specialist a robust trading performance.
proposition The UK homewares market is estimated by We remain focused on close operational Verdict Research to be worth approximately management, while investing confidently in the 11bn.
Within this fragmented market, where future growth of the business.
This investment, approximately 30% of sales remain with small consistent with our four strategic priorities, independent operators, Dunelms market centres on the further strengthening of our leading proposition is built on our core market leading customer proposition, while at differentiator of widest choice, offering the the same time increasing scale through store broadest price spectrum of quality products, and multi-channel expansion.
supported by strong availability and friendly knowledgeable service.
Our total revenue increased by 12.1% with like-for-like sales calculated by comparing Our range and choice advantage has been stores which have traded throughout the last particularly important over the last financial two financial years growing by 3.1%, year with the Dunelm Simply Value for Money considerably above the home textiles market proposition appealing to a wide cross-section as measured by the British Retail Consortium.
Our broad price architecture is mirrored across each of our core categories: The rest of our revenue growth was delivered from our entry price position which competes through the store development programme with products offered by grocers and discount which over the course of the year contributed multiples but at higher quality, through a 14 new superstores, including two relocations.
number of mid-market options up to our highest quality products associated with department Our strong trading performance combined with stores and higher-end independent retailers but disciplined cost and inventory management has at keener prices.
delivered a 30 basis points expansion in operating margin year on year.
Furthermore, This positioning of higher quality at comparable despite continued investment in new stores and entry-level prices and comparable quality at the associated infrastructure to support further keener prices for mid-market and premium growth, the business remains highly cash products, has helped to maintain existing generative allowing the opportunity to return footfall and attract new customers during the capital of 65.8m to our shareholders in past financial year.
addition to offering a 22% increase in the annual dividend.
Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Chief Executives review continued The majority of products in our stores Re-assigning colleague time in store from In the last financial year we opened over carry Dunelm branding.
However, non-customer facing tasks to providing 400,000 square feet of selling space proprietary brands such as Fogarty and customers with knowledgeable, friendly through fourteen new superstores Brabantia are an important complement service provides another important point two being relocations taking our to the offer and, reflecting our increased of further differentiation for Dunelm.
superstore chain to 115 stores at the year end, providing 3.4 million square feet of scale within the market, we are frequently Our activities in this regard, both in terms able to stock branded products on an of task elimination and re-investment selling space in total.
Maintaining this strong momentum, since the end of the exclusive basis.
Our owned brand Dorma of the freed-up time are tangible, re-enforces our quality credentials, measurable and targeted.
For example, year we have opened a further four stores with openings in Cambridge, Oxford, and particularly in bedding and bathroom during the year we have extended system categories, and we are very pleased with based automatic replenishment to over Barnstaple, and one relocation to deliver a full customer offer in Telford.
A further 9 the progress made with our in-house 60% of our products, replacing manual developed Spectrum brand.
The proportion of inventory new stores are contractually committed.
is used as a common brand for our checked for quantity and quality in the contemporary bright coloured ranges distribution centre has also increased, During the financial year we have updated our catchment analysis to reflect changes across a number of categories, replacing time consuming in-store encouraging customers to broaden processes.
We will expand both of these in demography and our latest understanding of catchment size from their basket as they adopt a specific initiatives further during the coming year.
colour look in a given room.
Spectrum our 34 new store openings over the past three years.
This modeling has confirmed is now present on over 300 products Specific departmental rotas have been across the offer.
created to ensure that high service areas that, despite the anticipated growth of our multi-channel sales, our mature UK of the store such as our made to We continue constantly to re-invigorate our measure curtain service are always superstore portfolio will consist of approximately 200 stores, at the top end offer to ensure it remains contemporary, staffed during periods of higher footfall.
Through two seasonal Product awareness and knowledge of our previously indicated range.
refreshes we change approximately 25% amongst our colleagues remains a priority of our ranges each year: Special Buys and we continue to invest in training to We have until now targeted all investment in new store openings to achieve discounted and Miss it Miss Out MIMO promotions this end.
emphasise Dunelms value credentials and cash flow payback of 36 months.
We have consistently beaten this target and indeed provide a seasonal feel to the store.
Our Dunelm At Home service, through which customers can select bespoke, the average payback for stores opened in the last three financial years is Increasing awareness of the Dunelm made to measure curtains and other brand remains a clear priority.
Having window treatments via a free home approximately 31 months.
Nevertheless, as our portfolio becomes more mature we refreshed our advertising during the year consultation, is now available from an to provide a clearer and more consistent expanded trial of 10 stores and is recognise that some locations will offer lower returns and going forward, we image we have continued to move away achieving good levels of customer from local media and increase our satisfaction.
anticipate that a proportion of new stores will be targeted to achieve 48 months presence in the national press.
We have also significantly increased our digital Priority 2 develop the store payback.
This payback profile will allow for some cannibalisation of revenues from marketing and social media activity, the portfolio latter being centred on Facebook, Twitter Dunelm trades from two store formats.
existing stores, whilst still delivering a very attractive return on invested capital.
Much of this increase in The bulk of the portfolio is represented by marketing activity has been funded by out-of-town superstores, with our average Our refit programme covered 15 buying efficiencies.
new store footprint now targeted towards 30,000 square feet of retail space.
superstores this year of which four were major refits.
The programme is designed Awareness and recognition of the quality This enables us to offer over 20,000 of our customer offer is improving both homewares products with the depth to improve the shopping environment in our existing stores and create a full and with customers and specialist media.
of range and availability that customers Specifically during the year we were expect from a specialist retailer.
Our trial consistent customer experience under the Dunelm brand.
These refits increase sales delighted to be voted Homewares of smaller format stores continues in order Retailer of the Year by the readers of for us to learn more about customer by introducing new product ranges such as Dorma sub-shops now present in 73 House Beautiful magazine.
reaction and profitability at this scale.
We also trade profitably from nine smaller stores and extended kitchen concepts 93 stores, and improves the overall Autumn 2012 will see the next phase of high street locations where there are our brand awareness activity with the trial currently no suitable out-of-town shopping experience, for example through better ranging, space allocation of a full catalogue.
page A4 catalogue will clearly illustrate or department layouts.
our range breadth, quality and value.
The distribution of the planned 700,000 print run will be biased towards the introduction of the Dunelm proposition to new customers.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 11 In addition, our Pausa coffee shops are As a consequence of all the above our Finally, we have begun a programme of now in 74 stores, providing an additional multi-channel revenues have continued investment to upgrade both our customer reason for customers to visit and to grow strongly, representing 2.5% of facing transactional till systems and our increasing their engagement and revenues over the full financial year and central ERP system.
approximately 3% in the final quarter.
Summary and outlook As a result of this continued investment Despite the progress we have made, Dunelm has delivered robust trading our portfolio is highly contemporary with there are a number of areas where our results in a demanding retail environment, 50% of the superstore chain either new multi-channel proposition could be with our strong focus on retailing or having benefited from a major refit over further enhanced and this provides a excellence leading to increased market the past three years.
clear opportunity for further revenue share on a like for like basis.
Key within this are improvements made good progress with our strategic Priority 3 grow multi-channel to our delivery proposition to provide development, scaling our business UK consumer behaviour continues to speed and choice in line with market through new stores, multi-channel and evolve and a greater on-line confidence, norms.
Achieving this will require technical strengthened infrastructure, while continuing to improve our specialist enthusiasm and capability have created enhancements to our site and the a shift in shopping preferences.
Consistent expansion of our logistics operations.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their hard work with this, Dunelm customers are embracing These significant developments are the convenience and value of multitargeted during the current financial year.
and commitment in achieving this.
channel shopping with two thirds of total shopping visits now involving some Following a successful trial of extended Our financial position remains extremely strong which, together with the Boards element of on-line activity browsing, inventory within furniture, we are targeting research or purchasing through our further web exclusive ranges.
We are also confidence in Dunelms future growth prospects, enables us to propose an websites, www.
com and confident that our e:marketing and www.
promotional capability will be significantly increase in the dividend ahead of earnings, together with a return of excess enhanced from a suite of developments In the year we successfully launched a full scheduled to be in place before our peak capital equal to 32.5p per share.
Reserve and Collect R&C model that trading period.
links our store stock files to the web in real Looking ahead, we remain cautious of the UK consumer environment and its impact time, enabling our customers to check Priority 4 develop and exploit our availability and order from over 16,000 infrastructure on our trading in the near term.
However, with a strong new store pipeline, good products.
R&C customers, who represent The Groups continued success is reliant over a third of multi-channel revenues, upon a resilient, functionally rich and momentum in multi-channel and a Simply Value for Money proposition that pay for their reserved products on dynamic business infrastructure across IT collection in store.
This model lends itself systems, distribution facilities and people continues to resonate with a wide range of customers, we remain confident in the particularly well to our product range resources.
Over the course of the year which customers will often wish to touch investment in our IT systems has enabled future growth prospects for the business.
and feel before committing to a purchase, us to improve stock control, make in-store and at the same time creates a clear processes more efficient, and deliver an Nick Wharton opportunity for add-on or incremental enhanced customer offer through Reserve sales during their visit.
Chief Executive 13 September 2012 Multi-channel functionality was further The year saw the completion and enhanced through the launch, in January, occupation of our new head office in of our dedicated mobile friendly site.
This Syston, Leicestershire, which was opened development gives the increasing volume in September 2011.
We have retained our of new and existing customers who use a former head office which now operates as range of android devices better access to our central fabric warehouse, a photo our specialist multi-channel offer.
studio, a mock-shop and acts as a key business recovery backup facility.
We have continued to invest significantly in both website development and in digital The capacity and capability of the Group marketing, where returns remain highly has been further strengthened by attractive.
Through these investments the recruitment of experienced retail number of visitors to our websites has professionals into the key new roles of increased by over 50% during the year, Chief Operating Officer and Director of whilst enhancements to our offer and Multi-Channel.
These positions allow a customer experience on the web have greater focus and specialism within an also led to improvements in conversion.
