06 Company overview Chief Executive Ofcers review On 31 July 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Stanlow renery which supplies approximately 15% of transport fuels in the UK.
This is a good quality asset witha mid complexity of 8.2 and is strategically located near Manchester to supply north west and central England.
The acquisition cost, at US$350 million, is very competitive when compared to similar transactions completed over the last three years.
Since the acquisition, the operating performance has been in line with expectations processing 51 million barrels of oil in the first eight months ofownership.
More importantly, we completed our 100 day plan post acquisition and have identied a number of opportunities to improve the renery which should deliver a minimum US$2 barrel to the GRMs, or US$150 million of additional EBITDA, by the end of 2013.
Delivery of these improvements will ensure that Stanlow is positioned to becash ow positive in even the worst market conditions, such as those that we saw in Europe in the last quarter of2011.
In Power, we saw strong availability across our portfolio with each plant being available more than 93% of the time.
Actual power generation was slightly lower than last year adjusted for The completion of our the 15 month period mainly due to high gas prices leading to reduced demand Vadinar renery now puts from our customers offset by the commissioning of the Vadinar Phase 1 this asset amongst the 380 MW co-generation plant in Gujarat, India.
best in the world in terms Financial results: Impacted by external factors of scale and complexity.
Earlier this year, we decided to move ournancial reporting to a March year end to bring our reporting into line with the Indian tax year.
As a result, we are The financial year 201112 provided Solid operating performance reporting a 15 month period for this anumber of challenges for your During the year, we saw a strong setof annual results.
Increased ination fed operating performance across our operating performance, we are reporting through to higher interest rates, we saw rening and power portfolios.
a loss before tax of US$1,147.7 million, a slowdown in the receipt of regulatory mainly as a result ofthree critical factors.
approvals and in January of this year The Vadinar renery in India continues to we lost our sales tax case in the Indian perform well with production broadly at First, as a result of us losing the sales Supreme Court which removed a on last year, after adjusting for the 35 tax benefit case in the Supreme Court significant scal benefit.
Despite these day outage in September and October of India which resulted in the reversal of challenges, our operations performed for routine maintenance and to tie in the the entire sales tax benefit revenue well and we made good progress on new expansion units for the phase 1 previously recognised of US$1,053.7 our growth projects.
In total we processed 125 million together with other related million barrels of oil through Vadinar in adjustments see Note 8a for further the 15 month period.
Second, as a result of the lapse remain very competitive at just US$3 of a prepayment option on Essar Oils barrel, including marketing and MRA loans, which has resulted in a distribution costs.
non-cash charge of US$321.5 million Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPANY BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 07 see Note 8b for further details.
And willcomplete over the next two years operate in a healthy andsafe working third, during the financial year, the Indian totake our total generation capacity to environment.
Our employees have Rupee depreciated sharply by 14% 6,700 MW by the end of March 2014 embraced our values in this area and resulting in foreign exchange losses of from 2,800 MW today.
We are confident wecontinue to be recognised externally US$316.9 million see Note 7 for further of delivering on this target.
for our health and safety practices.
Excluding the impact of these at31March 2012, our Vadinar renery factors, profit before tax for the year One of the disappointments this year operations crossed 1,460LTI free days wasUS$445.9 million.
however, has been the continued and our Power operations at Hazira delays to regulatory approvals in India crossed 3,584 LTI free days.
I am The loss of the sales tax benefit case and elsewhere.
In particular, this has pleased to report that Stanlow also has inparticular has led us to place more impacted our ability to develop our an excellent safety record having now focus on debt and funding in the captive coal blocks and current coal passed 794 LTI freedays as at 31March eventthat we receive a demand for shortages in India increase the risks of 2012, which is particularly pleasing immediate repayment and interest us having to run the plant that we are asthis covers the handover and thereon on the deferred sales tax commissioning at lower load factors integration period.
liability or we are unable to reach than planned.
We were encouraged in anacceptable deferred repayment January by the Prime Minister of Indias I was particularly impressed this year schedule.
We are currently in the intervention in the power sector to by the safety performance during the advanced stages of establishing a resolve all major issues, and that we Vadinar renerys 35 day shut-down for newc.
US$1 billion debt facility with received in June provisional forest routine maintenance and to tie-in all of ourIndian lenders to potentially fund clearance for our Mahan coal block.
the new units and revamp other units the sales tax liability, as well as However, delays to approvals will still for the expansion project.
In total, 2,492 pursuing funding options with other impact the Mahan 1,200 MW and Tori maintenance and inspection jobs and lenders toimprove liquidity.
As our 1,800 MW power projects which are over 1,600 tie-in jobs for the new and projects commission, our focus will due to commission in the near term.
revamped units were completed move to delivering the promised cash Asa result, we are putting in place involving some 15,000 employees ows and reducing debt levels.
contingency plans to ensure that we andcontractors on site.
All of these have sufficient coal at these power jobs were completed without any Growth projects: Capex cycle stations to cover, as a minimum, all accidents or injuries and the overall coming to an end ofour cash costs until our own mines project was delivered to the original We continued to execute our significant areoperating.
This was a significant pipeline of growth projects during the achievement in itself, but the overriding 15 months to March 2012, investing a Given ongoing regulatory delays, commitment to complete the work total of US$2.8 billion across our oil and wehave also decided to defer three safely was excellent.
ofour construction projects: Salaya II 1,320 MW, Salaya III 600 MW and While maintaining an excellent safety In Rening, I am pleased to report the Navabharat I 1,050 MW.
This is very record at our operations, our focus for completion of the phase 1 expansion disappointing given the unquestionable improvement continues to be at our ofour Vadinar renery and, post year demand for power in India, but we under construction projects where end, the completion of the renery believe this to be a prudent decision to thereis clear room for improvement.
optimisation project, which now puts allow us to manage risk and focus on The health and safety of our employees this asset amongst the best in the world those power projects which will provide and the communities where we operate in terms of scale and complexity.
The more certain cash ows and profitability.
is a priority for our Company and is expanded renery now has a capacity The deferred projects will now only important to me personally as well as of 20 mmtpa or 405,000 bpd and a proceed against specic milestones the entire Senior Management team.
The increased related to land and environmental complexity in particular will allow us approvals and us securing the The Company has a clear strategy tosignicantly enhance our renery necessary fuel supplies.
inplace to capitalise on Indias rapidly margins as we can process a much growing energy demand.
While we are heavier, and hence cheaper, crude Completion of the Vadinar renery making clear progress in certain areas, dietand produce a higher proportion optimisation project brings to an end head winds remain in others, particularly ofmore valuable middle and light the current capital expenditure cycle in in relation to regulatory approvals and distillates.
I expect to see a significant the rening business and we expect the development of our coal mines.
As uplift in the cash ow and profitability the capital expenditure cycle in power aresult, we are adjusting our focus to ofthis asset during this current year.
to ramp down over the next two years.
complete our current growth projects The focus will then move to ensuring and then focus on our operations to In Power, we commissioned the 380 that all assets operate to expectations, deliver to expectations.
MW Vadinar P1 gas red co-generation that we secure the necessary feed project and post year end have stock and start to deliver the promised commissioned the 1,200 MW Salaya I cash ow and profitability.
Naresh Nayyar coal red power project.
Salaya I is the Chief Executive officer first coal red plant that the Company Health and safety 22 June 2012 has built and commissioned and The number one priority for our business triggers a string of coal projects that remains to enable our employees to Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
