Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Chief Executives Review 13 0VS 7JTJPO To be the leading global supplier of speciality plastic, bre and foam components Our objective Create sustainable long-term value for our shareholders Progressive dividend Our strategy and operational priorities Focus on strong translation of profit into cash 100% operating profit conversion to cash Deliver balanced, profitable growth in both our existing and future opportunity markets and technologies Volume leverage to drive gross margin expansion Prioritise volume growth to drive higher revenue 50% conversion to operating margin and gross margin expansion Re-invest in the business for future growth Like-for-like revenue growth mid single-digit CAGR Our responsibilities Manage our activities to reect the high expectations of all our stakeholders Establish safe people and operational procedures, and minimise our impact on the environment Attract and develop motivated and highly-skilled employees Conduct our business to the highest ethical standards Further information on our Corporate Responsibility O PVS mSTU GVMM ZFBS PG 7JTJPO i can be found on page 42.
Further information on our XF IBWF DPOUJOVFE Key Performance Indicators can be found on page 20.
UP NBLF FYDFMMFOU QSPHSFTT UPXBSET PVS TUSBUFHJD PCKFDUJWFT 8F IBWF BMTP NBEF B OVNCFS PG GVSUIFS PSHBOJTBUJPOBM DIBOHFT BT XFMM BT TJHOJmDBOU JOWFTUNFOU UP TVQQPSU GVUVSF HSPXUI PQQPSUVOJUJFT i 14 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 $IJFG &YFDVUJWF T 3FWJFX DPOUJOVFE Signicantly, it will result in our Component Distribution, Speciality TapesPDBUJPO OEJB and Porous Technologies businesses establishing a presence in India for the first time.
This more co-ordinated modus operandi across our operating divisions represents a step-change from the more ad hoc approach which was adopted prior to the introduction of our Vision 2015 strategy particularly in terms of new market entry.
Indeed, the more horizontal approach which we are now taking particularly with regard to our expansion in the important Brazil Russia India China BRIC and other faster-growing opportunity markets will allow us better to leverage the scale and capabilities of the overall Filtrona Group, and thereby facilitate the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Recent transactions have also supported the organic expansion of our footprint, from the acquisitions of Richco, Inc. Richco at the end of 2011 and Jae Yong Co. Ltd Jae Yong in April 2012, to the acquisition of Ulinco Components AB Ulinco Components in Component Distribution and the formation of a joint venture in the United Arab Emirates UAE for our Filter Products division both announced subsequent to the year end.
With over 70% of revenue generated outside the US, Richco has added a number of new geographies to our Protection & Finishing Products division, A co-ordinated approach including Malaysia and Japan as well as signicantly enhanced our to the Indian market will manufacturing capability in China while South Korea-based Jae Yong has allow us better to further expanded the presence of our Porous Technologies division in the leverage our Group-wide Asia Pacic region.
The acquisition of Ulinco extends our Component skills and scale Distribution capabilities in the Nordic region, and our joint venture in the UAE with BBM Bommidala Group one of Indias leading producers of In Filter Products, our three innovation centres in Jarrow, UK, Greensboro, tobacco products and by-products both strengthens our presence in the US and Surabaya, Indonesia actively supported key customers in their growing Middle Eastern market and underscores our commitment to being respective launches, with a 20% increase in our level of joint customer a trusted partner to our tobacco customers on a global basis.
development activity as well as the introduction of six new proprietary products during the year.
In addition, our investment of over 1m in our In some cases, these are not only new markets for our respective operating scientific Services laboratory in Jarrow not only allows us to provide divisions, but also for the overall Company, thereby providing a potential customers with a complete service of analytical and commercial testing, bridgehead for further co-ordinated expansion in the future.
expert guidance and innovative product solutions, but also to make new testing methods available in order to meet evolving regulatory requirements.
1SPEVDUT BOE NBSLFUT Over and above its continued successful commercialisation of innovative 2012 saw a number of initiatives, successfully delivering against our new products including negative pressure advanced wound care and objective of identifying key new product opportunities to help drive further products using porous plastics our Porous Technologies division our revenue growth, and being supported by the capital investment added two exciting new capabilities through acquisition during the year.
we continue to make in the business.
The Jae Yong transaction has introduced nibs and other critical components to the divisions existing portfolio of ink-management reservoirs for the In Protection & Finishing Products, the Component Distribution businesses writing instruments industry, so that we can now offer the broadest range further expanded their ranges, with the introduction of some 2,500 new of solutions to our customers.
And the acquisition of Lymtech scientific, products.
We also made good progress in terms of leveraging cross-selling a manufacturer and distributor of porous wiping materials, has extended opportunities with new Richco catalogues in Asia and Europe now our manufacturing technology into the complementary area of nonfeaturing Moss products as well.
And, benefiting from a new facility, large woven bre.
As a result, we now have access to the attractive growth tonnage presses and newly developed multi-cavity mould bases, MSI and higher value market for clean room wipes, which are used in the introduced its MaxX range of thread protectors an innovative product line controlled environments increasingly required in industries such as life which is compliant with recently implemented standards in the oil and gas sciences and electronics.
1FPQMF Our Coated & Security Products division developed a number of new packaging, identity and authentication solutions, benefiting from the Filtronas Vision 2015 strategy is not just about financial performance previous investment in state-of-the-art equipment and technologies it is also about people.
Indeed, at all levels, our employees are a vital which we have made.
Indeed, one of the highlights of the year was resource in the Companys pursuit of operational excellence and the supplying accreditation solutions to the London 2012 Games in the UK.
provision of quality products and service to our customers.
Indeed, as Accordingly, we were very pleased that our innovation continued to gain an international organisation, it is important that we attract an appropriate recognition in 2012, with the division winning an Asian Manufacturing level of local talent and enhance mobility through increasing cross-divisional Award 2012 in the Innovation Packaging Solution category for our moves.
In this respect, we made good progress during the year, not only in Supastrip Variable Data Print tape and, together with Northgate Public terms of developing our existing employees but also in adding to our talent Services and the Department of Transport, a UK IT Industry Award for the base through our recent acquisitions.
We also added to our existing capabilities in personal identication products business with the acquisition of Securit During the year, we undertook the first Group-wide employee engagement World Ltd Securit, which provides us with new opportunities in survey in Filtronas history, which was extremely important in terms of attractive growth segments, such as access control and membership.
gaining the views of all our people so we can ensure that the Company Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Chief Executives Review 15.
PWJOH GPSXBSE OUR OBJECTIVES PROGRESS IN 2012 PRIORITIES IN 2013 Identify key new t Conversion of intellectual property and t Further successful exploitation of innovative product opportunities manufacturing know-how into commercial and manufacturing capabilities in new success across divisions technologies, products and services across t Continued range expansion and the Company improvement in marketing effectiveness Focus on faster growing t Establishment of a Porous Technologies t Strategic expansion in India, and a markets economies corporate ofce in Singapore more co-ordinated approach to other t Further site roll-out in both existing and new BRIC markets markets, to improve penetration and extend t Successful establishment of UAE joint reach in Protection & Finishing Products venture in Filter Products t Entry into opportunity markets via acquisition t Further expansion of international eg, Malaysia, South Korea distribution, sales and marketing expertise, to exploit growth opportunities Identify value-creating, t Acquisition of Securit in Coated & t Successful integration of 2012 acquisitions complementary M&A opportunities Security Products t Identify further opportunities across our t Acquisition of Jae Yong and Lymtech four principal operating divisions scientific in Porous Technologies t Successful integration of Reid and Richco transactions Invest in improving operational t Further investment in upgrading adding t Continued investment to support revenue excellence and execution machinery and equipment, and capacity growth opportunities expansion t Drive revenue growth from a more focused t Re-alignment of commercial teams, to focus go to market effort by end-market more on regional support t Greater horizontality across the Group, t Focus on go-to-market by product category to better leverage scale and skills Strengthen organisational structure t Appointed Group Operations Director t Continue to grow and develop talent and talent base t Successfully lled a number of key divisional across divisions roles, to support Vision 2015 strategy t Increase cross-divisional moves to t Undertook the first ever Group-wide enhance mobility employee engagement survey t Attract appropriate level of local talent t Appointed dedicated Human Resources for a global business directors in Protection & Finishing Products t Continue to widen the geographic reach and Filter Products of the Management and Graduate t Extended the geographical reach of the Development Programmes Management and Graduate Development Programmes 16 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 $IJFG &YFDVUJWF T 3FWJFX DPOUJOVFE is a great place to work.
It is also key to developing a more unied culturePDBUJPO 4XFEFO across the organisation.
Translated into 19 languages and distributed to more than 4,000 employees worldwide, the survey saw an excellent 75% response rate with a strong turnout in each of our operating divisions and at head ofce.
While there are naturally areas for improvement, where action plans have been agreed and are being implemented, the Board and the Group Management Committee GMC were very pleased with the overall positive findings not least that 82% of respondents are proud to be part of the Filtrona Group.
In 2012, we lled a number of key Group and divisional roles.
At Board level, Matthew Gregory was appointed Filtronas new Group Finance Director from his previous role as Corporate Development Director, after Steve Crummett stepped down following six successful years at the Company.
We also created a new role of Group Operations Director, and have welcomed Alan Richards to the position.
Alan brings extensive operations experience and will have oversight of our global manufacturing and distribution footprint, to ensure effective use of resources and the Our acquisitions of Ulinco achievements of the benets of scale.
And before the year end, we and Richco extend our announced the appointment of Matt Taylor, Managing Director capabilities in the Component Distribution to the GMC.
Matt joined Filtrona in 1987, sizeable Nordic region and in his 25 year career has held a variety of increasingly senior roles in those businesses.
Leaving Filtrona were Robert Purcell, Managing Director OWFTUJOH JO PQFSBUJPOBM FYDFMMFODF Protection & Finishing Products division and, shortly after the year end, BOE TUSFOHUIFOJOH UIF PSHBOJTBUJPOBM TUSVDUVSF Tony Edwards, Managing Director Coated & Security Products division: both of them tendered their resignations to pursue other opportunities During the year, we made a number of organisational changes so as outside the Company.
to strengthen the Group structure and to enhance our operational excellence further.
2012 was also another successful year for both the Filtrona Management Development and Graduate Development Programmes.
The two-year At the time of our Half Year 2012 results, we announced that Enitor graduate programme has provided a talent pipeline for a number of years, our Netherlands-based plastic extrusions business would be reported and in October a record 21 people joined from across the Company.
The separately for external purposes as Other, as opposed to being reported programme has recently expanded into new geographies including Asia, under the Coated & Security Products division.
Indeed, given the different and graduates from Brazil, India and Reinbek, Germany were recruited for nature and drivers of Enitors business, it had already been operationally the first time this year, expanding the international scope.
The 2012 intake managed separately at Group level since the beginning of the year, so will join the nine graduates recruited in 2011, and will have the opportunity as to allow a greater degree of focus on growth opportunities.
And while to develop their management skills through bespoke training which takes Enitors end-markets proved challenging in 2012, nonetheless its standing as place around Filtronas sites, giving graduates exposure to the Company.
a recognised leader in the design, manufacture and supply of technical and innovative custom extrusions supported by reliability and service has Supporting our recruitment and talent development initiatives has been resulted in a number of exciting new contracts, in particular a first-time win the roll-out of a more rigorous appraisal and succession planning process with the international home products retailer, IKEA.
Heading into 2013, and the establishment of a divisional HR structure, with the appointment Enitor aims to extend its sales into previously untapped end-markets such of dedicated Human Resources directors in each of Protection & Finishing as water treatment, as well as new geographies such as North America.
It is Products and Filter Products adding to the existing divisional resources in also focused on continuing to push the boundaries of extrusion techniques Porous Technologies and Coated & Security Products.
to stay at the forefront of technology, including exploring newer materials which enhance the environmental credentials of customers products.
Our overriding commitment remains the health, safety and welfare of our employees and all those who visit our operations.
And notwithstanding the In December, we announced a change to the organisational structure of very good standards we have already reached, and a significant increase our Protection & Finishing Products businesses.
Effective from 1 January in our headcount, we made further progress in our health and safety 2013, the Component Distribution businesses are now managed under performance in 2012.
Indeed, ten of our sites received a Gold ranking in a common structure within three geographic regions, while MSI Pipe the Filtrona Health & Safety Awards, up from seven in 2011, with a further Protection Technologies will seek to leverage its more than 30 years five achieving Silver status.
experience and leading position in the Oil Country Tubular Goods market into new end-markets.
These two business areas will be reported together as the renamed Component & Protection Solutions division.
At the same time, the Speciality Tapes business of Duraco will now form part of the Coated & Security Products division.
As identifying key new product and end-market opportunities is a core objective of Filtronas Vision 2015 strategy to deliver balanced, profitable growth, we are confident that this new structure will allow the Company better to exploit previously untapped cross-selling and end-market potential.
Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | Chief Executives Review 17 Having re-aligned each of our principal operating divisions to more focusedPDBUJPO 6OJUFE 4UBUFT business units in 2011, we made further improvements to our commercial structure in 2012, facilitated by the appointment of our Group Commercial Director in January.
Indeed, as with the expansion of our geographic footprint, there is similarly significant scope for the Company to go to market in a more unied and co-ordinated way, so as to leverage better Filtronas overall capabilities, skills and customer relationships.
As a result, we introduced regional commercial structures during the year with teams clustered by geography, which will allow us to provide our customers with an even better level of service and more co-ordinated support on a regional basis.
We also made progress with regard to developing commercial processes for increased efficiency and effectiveness, including the development of common Customer Relationship Management and market-leading e-commerce platforms, both of which will be rolled out in 2013.
While each of our divisions ostensibly produces very different products, we serve a number of common industries and customers: for example, our Filter Products and Coated & Security Products divisions are both trusted partners to the tobacco industry, while the pharmaceuticals sector is served by Porous Technologies for essential components and, increasingly, our The US remains an important Coated & Security Products division for labels.
These are only a couple of market, with further growth examples from across the Company where, by adopting a more  through increased based, horizontal approach to our product portfolio as opposed to market penetration operating as individual divisions, we can better exploit existing and energy efficiency within their organisations, and is a direct result of the importantly, new and innovative product and cross-selling opportunities, action which we initiated back in 2010 under the auspices of our Health, so as to become an even more important and relevant partner to our Safety & Environment Council.
Accordingly, we have established nine principal product categories from industrial to point of purchase from which we are We have also made further progress on reducing the environmental impact seeking to deliver the next stage of our revenue expansion, and around of our business in other aspects, with our water use and the amount of which we will be better able to manage our key customer accounts.
waste sent to landll showing reductions versus 2011 levels.
This year, I was very pleased to give the Group Environmental Award to the Porous 0VS SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT Technologies Reinbek, Germany facility, for an innovative energy management system that has reduced and controlled energy consumption Filtrona is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance by 30kW per annum.
and responsibility, to ensure that the way in which we manage our activities reects the expectations of all the Companys stakeholders.
As a member O TVNNBSZ of both the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, we recognise that our interaction with the environment and local communities is a critical In 2012 the first full year of Filtronas Vision 2015 strategy we continued component of the international reputation and quality, of Filtronas to build on the promising start we made in 2011 and to make further businesses as well as a cornerstone of developing a responsible, progressive progress towards our objectives.
In delivering these 2012 results, I would and winning culture.
like to acknowledge the efforts of all our employees and to thank them for their dedication and commitment as we continue to shape the Company All our principal manufacturing facilities hold the ISO 14001 environmental in particular, as we look to leverage our collective capabilities more accreditation and, with the exception of recently-acquired sites which, per effectively and to work together on a more horizontal, cross-divisional basis.
Filtrona policy, have a period of 24 months to reach the required standard, they have also achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management 0VUMPPL Systems OHSAS 18001: in respect of the latter, the Payne Cardiff site acquired in 2010 attained the standard in 2012 as anticipated.
In addition, In what remains an uncertain economic environment, Filtronas we were very pleased to gain additional accreditation in two of our international footprint, together with the diversity of its products and divisions: Payne Security was awarded the coveted Intergraf CWA end-markets, provide the Company with a degree of defensiveness.
15374:2005 certication as an accredited supplier to the secure printing Accordingly, we are well-positioned to deliver further balanced, profitable industry for both private and government customers, while our Component growth in 2013, and anticipate that each of our principal operating Distribution facility at Kidlington, UK attained the recently introduced and divisions will contribute to the overall Group result.
As such, we are aiming internationally recognised ISO 50001 standard on energy management.
to continue to make progress towards our Vision 2015 objectives of at least mid single-digit like-for-like revenue growth and double-digit adjusted Attaining the ISO 50001 standard at all our manufacturing facilities by earnings per share growth, at constant exchange.
the end of 2014 is a Company-wide objective, and in recognition of the excellent work that our Kidlington site has done in being the first to do so, I was very pleased to award it the 2012 Chief Executives Special Award.
During the year, Filtrona was placed in the top 10% of companies by the UKs Environment Agency in the Carbon Reduction Commitment $PMJO %BZ Performance League Table.
This league table is based on early actions that Chief Executive 21 February 2013 participating companies have taken to demonstrate their commitment to 18 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 'JOBODJBM 3FWJFX 8JUI MJLF GPS MJLF SFWFOVF VQ i DPOUJOVFE NBSHJO FYQBOTJPO BOE TUSPOH GSFF DBTI nPX HFOFSBUJPO XBT BOPUIFS TUSPOH ZFBS GPS 'JMUSPOB i.
"""55 &8 3& 03: Group Finance Director #BTJT PG QSFQBSBUJPO Trading performance Full year revenue was 22.7% ahead of the prior year 26.0% at constant The financial information is prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted exchange rates at 663.4m, with like-for-like growth of 11.1%."
The gross by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting margin rose 20bps 10bps at constant exchange rates to 35.9%.
Ongoing Standards Board, and with the accounting policies set out on page 85. volume leverage operational initiatives and successful pricing programmes to mitigate input cost increases were largely offset by the dilutive mix Foreign exchange rates impact of the very strong revenue growth in the lower margin Filter Movements in exchange rates relative to sterling affect actual results Products division.
The constant exchange rate basis adjusts the comparative to exclude such movements, to show the underlying growth of the On an adjusted basis, operating profit was ahead 24.6% 27.8% at Company.
For the principal exchange rates for Filtrona for the year ended constant exchange rates at 105.3m, equating to a 30bps uplift in the 31 December 2012 FY 2012, see the table opposite.
Re-translating margin to 15.9% at both actual and constant exchange rates.
Operating at FY 2012 average exchange rates reduces the prior year revenue and profit as reported was 86.4m, 19.0% higher than last year 22.9% adjusted operating profit by 14.1m and 2.1m respectively.
Like-for-like basis Net finance expense The term like-for-like describes the performance of the business on a Net finance expense was 9.5m, a 1.2m increase versus FY 2011. comparable basis, adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and The net interest charge on net debt increased to 8.9m 2011: 8.6m, foreign exchange.
The FY 2012 results and the FY 2011 comparatives reect primarily as a result of additional debt taken on to finance acquisitions.
the results of Reid Supply Company acquired on 6 September 2011, Richco, The amortisation of bank facility fees increased to 1.3m 2011: 0.8m, Inc. acquired on 21 December 2011, Securit World Ltd acquired on the IAS 19 pension finance credit of 0.3m was lower 2011: 1.2m, while 17 February 2012, Jae Yong Co. Ltd acquired on 23 April 2012, John R. other interest income was 0.4m 2011: expense of 0.1m.
Lyman Company and Big Blue Properties LLC together Lymtech scientific, acquired on 13 June 2012 and FractureCode divested on 28 July 2011.
Tax The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items and tax was Adjusted basis 29.4% 2011: 30.4%.
The term adjusted excludes the impact of intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items, less any associated tax relief.
In FY 2012, Net income intangible amortisation was 8.3m 2011: 3.7m, and there was an Adjusted net income was up 27.5% 31.0% at constant exchange rates exceptional pre-tax charge of 10.6m 2011: 8.2m mainly relating to to 67.6m.
On a reported basis, net income of 53.5m increased 26.2% integration costs and fees arising from the afore mentioned acquisitions.
Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share of 30.7p was up 26.3% 30.1% ahead at constant exchange rates.
