Chief Executive Officers statement 10 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 With prices falling against the backdrop of a volatile economic climate, the year saw our teams focus on maximising production from our low cost assets inKazakhstan.
2012 was a difficult year for all businesses The early part of the year saw mixed in our sector, and ENRC has not been operational fortunes, particularly with immune to the increasingly challenging respect to processing issues at Aluminium market conditions.
However, our production declined as the year progressed, performance recovered well in the second particularly for our major commodities half, and this led to record saleable of ferroalloys and iron ore.
This production in the Ferroalloys and Energy has led to an Underlying EBITDA Divisions, as well as our best quarter in the of US$1,887 million, a fall of 45% against past two and a half years for saleable the previous year and a decrease production in the Iron Ore Division.
In the of 74% in earnings per share adjusted Other Non-ferrous Division we recorded to US 41 cents 2011: US 155 cents.
a significant increase in copper production The impact of additional charges, relating year-on-year.
to impairments and an onerous contract provision totalling US$1,544 million Investing for success has resulted in a basic loss per share Despite the economic climate, we again of US 62 cents 2011 earnings per share: took the opportunity to invest in order US 153 cents.
to underpin our future success.
During the year, our capital investment expenditure Mr Felix J Vulis Focusing on production and rose to US$2.3 billion 2011:US$2.1billion, Chief Executive Officer cost containment with our primary focus being the further expansion of our portfolio of high With prices falling against the backdrop quality projects.
of a volatile economic climate, the year saw our teams focus on maximising production In Kazakhstan we continued to strengthen from our low cost assets in Kazakhstan, our integrated and low cost operational and successfully restricting cost inflation model and made considerable progress to well below the guidance given at the start on developing our New Aktobe Ferroalloys of 2012.
I am pleased to report that unit Plant.
This project, which will be the costs for iron ore only increased by 10%, worlds most cost-effective high-carbon while unit costs for ferroalloys rose less than ferrochrome production facility, remains 3% year-on-year.
on budget and on-track for commissioning in Q4 2013.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Frontier processing plant The Group acquired the Frontier cathode at the Groups newly processing plant in March 2012 completed Chambishi copper and was subsequently granted plant inZambia.
the Frontier mining licence in Within the DRC, the Frontier Julyby the DRC Government.
mine is unique in being free The licence has an estimated from infrastructure constraints.
mineral resource of 273.9 Mt With steady state production grading 1.2% copper and to be reached by July of this the project will target 80-90 year, Frontier is a cornerstone ktpa of copper contained in of the Groups copper strategy, concentrate, at an average cost underpinning its ambitions of of approximately US$1.20 per producing 200 ktpa within the pound of copper inconcentrate.
Expected production for 2013 will be around 40 kt of copper inconcentrate.
Approximately half of the concentrate will be sold to third parties and it is planned that the remainder will be processed intocopper Chief Executive Officers statement continued 12 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In the Alumina and Aluminium Division In November, we announced the findings Supporting our people we completed all major construction works of our capital expenditure review for Our people are at the heart of what makes on the anode plant, which will reduce the next five year period.
Given the ENRC a successful Group.
It is their our dependence on third party suppliers, current market trends, we have adopted commitment and skills that drive us forward while the Logistics Division saw further a disciplined capital allocation approach and we owe it to themto adopt the highest investment in the railway fleet through the and prioritised those projects that offer the standards of health and safety.
acquisition of an additional 2,488 wagons.
highest returns combined with the shortest payback periods.
As a consequence I was greatly saddened by the 18 fatalities Developments in Africa included investment our focus will be on completing the New 2011: 13 that took place, of which 10 to expand copper oxide production at Boss Aktobe Ferroalloys Plant, three copper were employees 2011: 11.
The year saw Mining, which now has a capacity of 40 projects in Africa Frontier, RTR and the an increase in the number of contractors ktpa.
We also completed the expansion Boss Mining Concentrator and iron ore working at our sites and, partly as a result, of the solvent extraction and electrowinning expansion at SSGPO in Kazakhstan.
the number of contractor fatalities increased SX EW capacity at Chambishi.
On behalf of the Board Chambishi will require the construction Our investment programme reflects and the senior management team, I would of a second roaster before operating at full our determination to deliver value like to express sincere condolences capacity of 55 ktpa.
Refurbishment of the to all shareholders over the coming to all of the families involved in these Frontier processing plant and pre-stripping years by maintaining our leading low tragic circumstances.
works at the mine site also got underway cost position, continuing to expand in the second half of the year.
Gaining our product portfolio and develop our In 2012, we extended and clarified our lost an environmental licence for our port site existing asset base.
At the same time, time injury LTI definitions to be better in Brazil has been a complex challenge, we are actively reviewing our non-core aligned with international practices, as part so we were delighted to be awarded the assets and the opportunities that these of this we now include exploration sites.
Preliminary Licence during November may provide through either disposals 2012, as this adds incremental value or development partnerships.
Main capital expenditure projects In millions of US$ Current estimated cost Division Date of commissioning Main growth projects 1 New Aktobe Ferroalloys Plant 440 ktpa 750 Ferroalloys 2013 2 Iron ore expansion programme Kazakhstan 1,800 Iron Ore 20182019 Frontier 440 Other Non-ferrous 2013 RTR 440 Other Non-ferrous 2015 3 Boss Mining expansion programme 725 Other Non-ferrous 2016 Total 4,155 Completed projects Anode production plant 298 Alumina and Aluminium 2012 Expansion of copper oxide production 150 Other Non-ferrous 2012 Chambishi copper plant LME grade A 90 Other Non-ferrous 2012 Railway fleet expansion 210 Logistics 2012 Total 748 1 Previously reported as expansion replacement of ferroalloy smelting capacity Aktobe 440 ktpa.
2 Includes: concentrator expansion, pelletiser, HBI plant and mine expansion.
3 Previously reported as expansion of copper sulphide production.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 We are now actively reviewing our safety improvement programmes to determine how we can enhance their effectiveness and are alsoseeking to improve our processes surrounding contractor safety management andsupervision.
We experienced 103 LTIs to employees in South Africa will continue to restrict 2011: 64.
The lost time injury frequency supply.
Primarily it is the interplay of these rate for employee cases was 0.72 in 2012 factors that will drive pricing during 2013.
These numbers include all We will continue with our programme reported fatality cases.
of investment during 2013, and our I believe that improved reporting has had total estimated capital spend including some impact on these performance figures, expansionary and sustaining projects will but that does not mask our concern at the total US$1.7 billion.
We will concentrate rise in the number of incidents.
We are now on the delivery of three projects: the New actively reviewing our safety improvement Aktobe Ferroalloys Plant in Kazakhstan programmes to determine how we can and the development of both the Frontier enhance their effectiveness and are and RTR copper projects in the DRC.
also seeking to improve our processes We continue to review the scope of our iron surrounding contractor safety management ore expansion programme in Kazakhstan, and supervision.
in the light of supply and demand pressures, as well as our expansion at Boss Mining.
Looking ahead As always, our people will be one of our Although we expect the stainless steel key differentiators.
It has been a privilege industry to continue to grow at around to work alongside so many talented and 4% during 2013, the ferrochrome market committed people during the year and remains fundamentally oversupplied.
I look forward to doing so again in 2013.
The export of chrome ore from South Africa I thank them for their continued passion continues to sustain high cost Chinese and hard work.
ferrochrome production and the supply of UG2 based chrome ore is projected to increase further over the coming years.
The effect of supply of Chinese product to the market will be countered by power shortages in South Africa, which will limit expansion, as well as by cost push pressures which will impact all Mr Felix J Vulis Chief Executive Officer producers.
Furthermore, any extension to Eskoms power buy-back scheme
