12 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executive Ofcers Report While we expect 2013 to continue to provide challenging short-term risks, we are committed to investing in our future growth by increasing mining volumes, improving our product mix and reducing costs.
Dear Stakeholders, 2012 market environment Good progress was made in terms of our The year 2012 was characterised by challenging and business performance commercial objectives and managements trading conditions for the global steelmaking During 2012 the global macro environment focus on maintaining our position as a low industry.
Although some recovery was seen remained highly imbalanced and uncertain cost producer was reflected in the ongoing during the first half of the year, there was a in both the emerging and developed markets.
implementation of pulverised coal injection PCI.
significant deterioration in sentiment towards Many countries faced deep financial issues, We also undertook a large scale modernisation the year end.
As a result, steel and raw material encompassing the sovereign debt crisis and programme in our railway product group which markets remained highly volatile with global economic difficulties in the Eurozone, uncertainty necessitated the suspension of operations at the steel industry capacity experiencing substantial in relation to the fiscal cliff in the US and a EVRAZ ZSMK rail mill from April 2012 to January underutilisation.
slowdown in the Chinese economy, particularly 2013.
The rail mill is now fully operational and, during the second half of the year, all of which The subdued steel and raw materials pricing as a result, EVRAZ has increased its overall rail weighed on world markets.
As a result, overall environment took its toll on EVRAZs financial capacity in Russia to 1.5 million tonnes per world economic growth decelerated in the performance.
Although the Company annum and improved the quality and other reporting year.
demonstrated respectable operating results, characteristics of the rails produced.
In addition, we experienced a 10% decline in revenues to The negative macro sentiment affected almost we established a separate division for railway US$14,726 million against 2011, while EBITDA all commodity markets, with the steel market products in order to concentrate the operational was 31% lower at US$2,012 million.
The demand outlook and sales effort, as well as to focus on product for steel products deteriorated substantially development in this important market.
Overview of Health, Safety during the course of the year.
Volatility in and Environmental performance We also derive considerable benefits from steelmaking raw material prices promoted Throughout 2012 we brought a strong focus the favourable locations of our steel facilities caution and led to destocking on the part to bear on safety and risk management but, in the Western US and Canada which allow of market participants.
although we have made some progress in this us to offer customers shorter lead times than area over recent years, we still have a long way As a result of these factors, a promising start competitors and save on transportation costs.
to 2012 gave way to a year characterised by This proved particularly important during 2012 challenges and we are therefore cautious about when demand in North America remained In order to improve the accuracy of our statistics near-term prospects.
However, EVRAZs strong strong, especially for rails, while regional prices in respect of lost time incidents we pursued a competitive cost base, superior operating for tubular products also held firm.
We have rigorous policy of zero-tolerance with regard to efficiency and flexible investment programme successfully implemented our expansion into the concealment and or misrepresentation of enable me to view the Companys long-term high value added steel products such as head health and safety incidents throughout the year.
hardened rails, premium connection OCTG tubes Although the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate and heat treated seamless pipe and we also indicator showed an increase in 2012 compared Steel segment succeeded in increasing the internal supply with 2011, we believe that this partly reflected Global steel prices continued to soften of steel slabs in Russia to serve our operations the consequent increase in reporting activity.
throughout much of 2012 with steel demand in Europe and North America.
However, I am firmly of the opinion that the subdued as a result of the uncertain efforts brought to bear by management on health macroeconomic environment.
Despite this, Poor end-user sentiment continued to dominate and safety issues, typified by an intensified focus we continued to run our Russian and North European markets as the weak economic outlook on the thorough investigation of all incidents prior American steelmaking facilities at high levels and financial uncertainty persisted amid attempts to the implementation of necessary corrective of utilisation due to the cost efficient nature to find a solution to the Eurozone debt crisis.
actions across the Group, will ultimately lead of our operations and the resilience of some Our performance in South Africa during 2012 to sustainable improvement in this area.
was negatively impacted by industrial action, Tragically, we recorded 25 separate fatal EVRAZ derives significant benefits from which interrupted production in mid-year before accidents at our operations in 2012 and 6 more its ability to adjust production plans and giving way to a prolonged ramp up period.
Overall since the beginning of 2013.
We continue to strategically adapt output to meet market demand for steel in the African region proved implement additional training and improve our conditions.
The location of key steelmaking sluggish.
As part of our continued effort to HSE culture to ensure that relevant issues are facilities allows the Company to efficiently improve allocation of capital, we decided to addressed in a timely and adequate manner.
deliver steel products to Russia, CIS, Asia dispose of our South African steel operation The underlying causes of any accidents are and Middle East regions, thus taking full EVRAZ Highveld and signed a non-binding term now evaluated and shortcomings addressed advantage of a favourable situation in a sheet in March 2013. on a more consistent basis, with the ultimate particular geographical market.
In Russia objective of operating a zero harm environment.
we decreased the ratio of export sales Our current priority is to appreciably heighten during 2012 in order to take advantage our employees awareness and understanding of the ongoing momentum in steel demand of HSE issues at all levels.
from the domestic construction industry.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Mining segment Vanadium segment 2013 Outlook During the year we completed a number of In 2012 we continued to be the only major Despite a positive start to 2013 in certain significant initiatives which, we believe, will producer of vanadium in Russia with an important international steel markets we remain secure cost efficient long-term supplies of share of the global market.
Overall, EVRAZs cautious with regard to the outlook for steel.
iron ore and coking coal for our core Russian vanadium business experienced a mixed year, Notwithstanding some recent signs of steelmaking facilities.
with labour issues in South Africa and shortages stabilisation, global prospects remain fragile, of third party feedstock in the United States with strong downside risks and volatility likely We achieved a solid performance in iron ore, impacting negatively, while Russian operations to persist throughout the year.
As a result, reflected in relatively flat production year-on-year, ran at full utilisation rates to meet demand.
both producers and customers are waiting for together with the continuation of a high clearer indications of sustainable trends.
The principal highlight was Embedding a new culture throughout EVRAZ the successful ramp up of EVRAZ KGOK to 56 We began the critical process of changing the Due to our attractive position on the global million tonnes of iron ore per annum 9.7 million Companys culture through the introduction of cost curve, we anticipate that our steelmaking tonnes of saleable products -- the lowest cost the EVRAZ Business System EBS in 2011. facilities will continue to operate at high asset in the Companys iron ore mining portfolio.
EBS represents a radical transformation of utilisation rates and, as a result, we expect our This was accompanied by a number of initiatives the way EVRAZ conducts its business and I am steel production volumes in 2013 to be broadly designed to reduce costs and optimise iron ore delighted to report that we made good progress in line with the 2012 performance.
For more detailed information in embedding this new methodology across our have been volatile since the beginning of the year please refer to pages 43 to 44. operations in 2012. while iron ore price has grown moderately, coking coal price stagnated.
We are anticipating an Coking coal production increased with our By way of example, I would like to cite two uptick in the demand of steel construction Yuzhkuzbassugol coal mining subsidiary pilot areas at EVRAZ ZSMK which were chosen products in the Russian market as the new producing 8.5 million tonnes of raw coking coal in for the implementation of a new maintenance construction season approaches.
2012 compared with 6.3 million tonnes in 2011. system a section in both the long product This is the result of continued management focus rolling mill and the blooming mill where more Stock levels are well managed across our on operational improvements at all of our coal efficient organisation of work processes resulted business.
Export sales volumes are currently mining operations.
For more detailed information in enhanced productivity and savings on spare booked for over one months production and please refer to pages 46 to 48. parts and the optimisation of stocks which inventories at traders and at our mills and ports amounted, in total, to more than RUB121 million remain low.
Construction of the new Yerunakovskaya VIII US$4 million.
coking coal mine, which enjoys a nameplate In 2013, we expect to reduce capex spending capacity of 2.5 million tonnes of raw coal per Another successful example is EVRAZ KGOK, by ca.
10% vs. 2012, as we approach the annum, was completed in 2012.
We expect where the repair times in certain shops were completion of key investment projects.
the mine, which was commissioned in February drastically reduced and productivity improvement The Company maintains sufficient flexibility 2013, to ramp up to full production in 2014. projects have led to savings of approximately in its investment plans to be able to respond RUB37 million US$1.2 million.
For more detailed adequately to a potential worsening of the macro We have also secured project financing for the information on the results achieved through the environment.
development of Phase I of the Mezhegey coal utilisation of EBS please refer to pages 24 to 25. deposit which will serve to increase EVRAZs While we expect 2013 to continue to provide production of hard coking coal by a further Capital expenditure, debt position and liquidity challenging short-term risks, we are committed 1.5 million tonnes per annum.
Mezhegey will In 2012, capital expenditure totalled US$1.3 to investing in our future growth by increasing produce hard coking coal which is in short billion with development capex mainly channelled mining volumes, improving our product mix and supply in the Kuzbass region of Russia.
to the development of the Yerunakovskaya VIII reducing costs.
Although the full benefit of these In addition, Mezhegey benefits from a relatively mine US$135 million, PCI projects at Russian investments will be realised in the medium to low methane content resulting in improved steelmaking facilities US$109 million, the major long-term, we anticipate some positive impact safety and cost performance.
rail mill modernisation programme at EVRAZ in 2013.
ZSMK US$143 million and the construction One of the major developments of 2012 EVRAZs leaders were ambitious in their plans of mini-mills in the south of Russia and in was the agreement to purchase a controlling for the Company when they founded the Kazakhstan US$72 million.
interest in Raspadskaya, one of Russias enterprise 20 years ago.
Although the scale largest independent coking coal companies, As at the year end, our total debt amounted of the Companys operations has grown a transaction which closed in January 2013. to US$8.2 billion with cash of US$2.1 billion considerably since then, we retain the same The consideration largely comprised EVRAZ including short-term financial assets.
This allows ambitions to develop EVRAZ into one of the most equity, a factor that served to lower cash outflow.
us to comfortably fulfil scheduled redemptions prominent steel producers in the world.
EVRAZ I have every confidence that the purchase of of US$1.1 billion in 2013.
The current liquidity enjoys a strong array of inter-aligned assets Raspadskaya will secure the long-run low cost position underpins the manageable debt which leaves us well positioned to achieve our position of EVRAZs coking coal business while, structure of the Company with the next major long-term objective of maximising shareholder at the same time, providing us with a strategic debt maturities scheduled for Q4 2014. value through a balance of investment, financial option to increase volumes with relative ease.
I would Nevertheless, we continued to consider new Consequent to the acquisition of Raspadskya, like to congratulate all our stakeholders on funding options during the year, including the EVRAZs self-coverage in coking coal surpassed this anniversary and thank each of you for US$195 million project finance loan obtained for 100% and our intention is to deliver excess your ongoing support for managements efforts the development of the Mezhegey coal project coking coal production to the market, while and development plans.
The structure of this loan provides for securing those grades of coal which are in proper risk mitigation in respect of the enterprise, deficit for our operations.
while enhancing the overall investment profile of the Company.
During the year we also continued to streamline the structure of our public debt covenants Alexander Frolov through the removal of a net leverage ratio Chief Executive officer maintenance covenant under a Eurobond issue, EVRAZ plc which served to align this issue with other Eurobond issues.
