28 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business review Chief Executives review This was a year of significant achievement for Experian.
We delivered another year of strong financial performance and we took a series of strategic steps which will sustain growth into the future.
Don Robert Chief Executive Officer with Sir John Peace Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 29 completion of various conditions and events.
P34 We made excellent progress in Latin Overview For the purposes of these results, these America during the year, with the region now Total revenue growth from continuing businesses have been treated as discontinued accounting for over 20% of Group revenue.
activities was 15%, at constant currency, and operations.
On a like-for-like basis, including Our business in Brazil delivered very strong organic revenue growth was 10% H1 9%, these businesses, revenue was US$4.8bn, organic growth, as we invested in new H2 10%.
We delivered an increase in EBIT with organic revenue growth of 7% H1 6%, sources of data, broadened our product from continuing activities of 18% at constant H2 8%, EBIT was US$1,195m, up 14%, EBIT range and further penetrated new customer currency, and further enhanced our EBIT margin was 25.1% and Benchmark EPS was segments.
We continue to see significant margin, up 50 basis points to 26.2%.
prospects for growth in Brazil as we leverage delivered strong growth in Benchmark EPS, our scale and the full extent of the Experian Our core Consumer Direct activities are up 18% to 78.9 US cents per share and have portfolio.
We also made good strategic not affected by the agreed divestment.
In raised the full-year dividend by 14% to 32.00 progress in Marketing Services, with the view of this, we will change the name of the US cents per share.
acquisition of the leading email marketing Interactive business segment to Consumer We delivered good growth across all business in the country.
This provides us with Services, to more appropriately reflect regions, with organic revenue growth of an important new platform for driving growth the continuing operations of the business 23% in Latin America, 8% in the UK and in targeted digital marketing in Brazil.
We will adopt the new segment Ireland, 7% in EMEA Asia Pacific and 6% in name in our financial reporting for the year Also in Latin America, we were delighted North America.
ending 31 March 2013. to complete the acquisition of Computec We delivered good growth across our in November, which has extended our Financial and strategic highlights four global business lines, with organic credit bureau footprint to Colombia, Peru revenue growth of 12% in Credit Services, P32 In North America, we saw good and Venezuela.
Computec has performed 9% in Marketing Services, 8% in Decision performances in Credit Services and strongly since acquisition, in line with the Analytics and 7% in Interactive.
There was steady acquisition buy plan.
On an underlying basis, We met or exceeded each of our financial recovery in lending and we started to revenue growth was approximately 20% for objectives, namely to deliver mid-high benefit from investments made in recent the year.
We are in the process of integrating single digit organic revenue growth, years.
This is driving volume increases in back office functions and we are developing maintain or improve margin and deliver consumer information, as well as demand plans to launch Experians full product range cash flow conversion of over 90%.
for our new sources of data, analytics into these new markets.
We are also delighted We executed well on our global growth We were pleased to deliver a good by the progress that we are making programme, positioning us strongly for P36 performance in the UK and Ireland.
Credit across business information, automotive the future.
Services returned to growth and Decision and healthcare payments, all of which Analytics performed strongly.
We have I would like to thank the people of Experian delivered strong growth in the year and benefited from new client engagements whose inspiration, creativity and dedication are well-positioned for future expansion.
in the financial services sector and have make these achievements possible.
Medical Present Value, the acquisition extended further into non-financial which extends our presence in the US Impact of agreement to divest verticals.
We also completed two bolt-on healthcare payments vertical, is performing non-core activities acquisitions, which extend our presence strongly.
While the external environment in the high growth fraud prevention sector Over the past four years, our strategic focus for Marketing Services was tepid, we have and bolster our position in the small and has been on extending our global lead in continued to benefit from extending our medium enterprise market.
Weak economic credit information and analytics, digital presence in the digital marketing space.
conditions had some impact on Marketing marketing services and direct-to-consumer Consumer Direct grew as we successfully Services, where growth was fairly modest.
We have signed an agreement to migrate into our new brands.
More recently, Interactive by contrast performed very divest our comparison shopping and North we have made good progress towards strongly, helped by a good reception for America lead generation businesses, which expanding the white label affinity channel, our bundled consumer product.
We also were non-core to Experian.
We expect to which will benefit our prospects in the latter took an important step to expand further complete the transaction within the first part of FY13 and beyond.
into consumer identity protection with the half of this fiscal year, subject to successful acquisition of Garlik.
2011 restated to exclude comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in North America and UK and Ireland: these have been classified as discontinued operations.
Total growth at constant exchange rates.
Central Activities comprise costs of central corporate functions.
Discontinuing activities include UK account processing, some UK hosted database activities, UK mortgage software activities and other smaller discontinuing activities principally in EMEA Asia Pacific.
EBIT margin is for continuing business only.
Further analysis can be found in the financial review on page 46.
Income statement and earnings analysis 2012 2011 US$m US$m EBIT from continuing operations 1,175 991 Net interest 47 71 Benchmark PBT 1,128 920 Exceptional items 12 2 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 122 99 Acquisition expenses 9 8 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 - Charges for demerger-related equity incentive plans 5 13 Financing fair value remeasurements 318 142 Profit before tax 689 656 Group tax credit charge 35 118 Profit after tax from continuing operations 724 538 Benchmark EPS US cents 78.9 66.9 Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 66.8 49.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 989 1,002 See page 46 for analysis of revenue and EBIT by business segment.
See the financial review on pages 40 to 46, and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 31 P38 EMEA Asia Pacific performed well despite Investment to support growth during FY12 Capital strategy difficult trading conditions in some European included approximately 200 basis points of In setting our capital strategy, we aim for an markets.
A strong reception for digital margin, net capital expenditure of US$453m appropriate balance between investing in marketing platforms drove exceptionally and acquisition expenditure of US$787m.
For the business for growth while maintaining a strong growth in Marketing Services, our FY13, we anticipate continued investment prudent but efficient balance sheet.
For the largest revenue contributor within EMEA through the income statement, and capital coming year, we have taken into account Asia Pacific, with resilience in Credit expenditure in the range of US$470m to current leverage, anticipated free cash flow Services.
Decision Analytics was adversely US$490m.
and the current acquisition pipeline, including affected by project deferrals in Continental Cash flow and net debt the value of the Serasa put option and the Europe.
We are in the process of realigning opening up of the exercise window.
In view of EBIT conversion into operating cash flow our regional sales structure for Decision these items, we have decided not to initiate was 96%, exceeding our target of 90% Analytics in EMEA to improve operational a further share buyback programme this conversion.
Net debt increased by US$317m efficiency and return that business to growth.
We do, however, expect to repurchase to US$1,818m at 31 March 2012, reflecting P8 Strategy shares in respect of employee share plans acquisitions made in the year.
At 31 March that vest, at an anticipated cost in the region We made further progress during the year 2012, the adjusted net debt to EBITDA of US$130m.
against our five strategic goals to: gearing ratio was 2.0 times, including the current value of the Serasa put option of Dividend Extend our global lead in credit information US$1,092m.
This compares to our target net and analytics: For the year ended 31 March 2012, we are debt range of 1.75 to 2.0 times.
Build successful businesses in new announcing a second interim dividend of customer segments: Experian seeks to diversify its sources of 21.75 US cents per share.
This gives a full-year funding and to spread debt maturities.
We Build large-scale operations in major dividend of 32.00 US cents per share, up 14%.
have a 334m bond which matures at the end emerging consumer economies: The second interim dividend will be paid on of calendar 2013 and in order to refinance this 20 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at Become the global leader in digital we expect to undertake a new bond issue the close of business on 22 June 2012. marketing services: and during calendar year 2012.
Including this Become the most trusted consumer item and an anticipated increase in average brand for credit information and identity net interest rates, we expect the net interest protection services.
expense will be in the range of US$50m to During the year we continued to invest US$60m for the year ending 31 March 2013. in our global growth programme, aimed at delivering these goals.
We made good progress and, collectively, the programme contributed approximately 4% to organic revenue growth, ahead of our previous expectations.
Our growth programme has enabled us to further deliver against our strategic metrics, with 35% of Group revenue now arising from outside the US and UK 2011: 32%, 68% from non-financial verticals 2011: 66% and, in line with last year, over 10% generated from product innovations in the past five years 2011: also greater than 10%.
