Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review STRONG GROWING RESILIENT Nicholas Hobson STRONG DEMAND, COMBINED WITH THE BENEFITS Chief Executive Officer OF OUR INVESTMENTS, PRODUCED HIGHER MARGINS AND RECORD EARNINGS.
This has enabled to local factors, some of which, like the price Introduction both divisions to build strong brands and of natural gas, are considered short-term In another record year it is difficult to pick out excellent reputations in their chosen markets.
Iron ore and metallurgical coal prices specific successes but the growing These characteristics are considered to be the held up well until the final quarter of the acceptance of the Engineered Conveyor key to the success of the Group.
Fenner financial year allowing record export Solutions concept by some key customers and levels to be declared by BHPBilliton and Rio the growth of Fenner Advanced Sealing Fenner has an experienced and stable Tinto.
Technologies within the Advanced Engineered management team, backed by solid financial Products division, both by organic investment performance and a robust balance sheet.
Following our year end there was a market and acquisition, stand out.
The recognition of Accordingly, Fenner is able to continue to correction in commodity prices which was the eminence of Secant Medical in the design invest organically and by acquisition to driven by uncertainty over the continued of medical textiles was reflected in its revenue maintain and develop its strong market growth in demand.
Nevertheless, prices still growth and also deserves a mention.
remain well above those during the global Throughout this report we have introduced the financial crisis.
The medium to long-term Market overview updated vision and strategy for Fenner which projections for coal demand from the The economic recovery continues, but it has was developed by the Executive Committee, International Energy Agency show continued weakened.
In advanced economies, growth is with the support of the Board and the input of growth.
now too low to make a substantial dent in senior management across the Group.
This unemployment and in major emerging market builds on our success to date and Coal price, production and demand are economies, growth rates that had been strong demonstrates how we will drive long-term illustrated on page 16 have also slowed.
The IMF growth forecasts value for our customers, employees and for 2013 have been revised from 2.0% down to shareholders.
1.5% for advanced economies and from 6.0% There is no single driver of demand for the Business model to 5.6% for emerging and developing AEP division.
However, significant revenues economies although they note that, trade are derived from oil and gas, medical, The Fenner business model is to devolve channels are surprisingly strong, with, for authority into the operating units, within an construction and the general industrial example, lower exports accounting for most of appropriately controlled environment.
These markets of North America.
The oil and gas the decrease in growth in China.
Source: operating units are close to our customers markets continue to perform well, not only IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2012. and are responsible for delivering the from steady demand and security of supply, products and services to them.
The operating but also from the increasingly sophisticated The demand for ECS goods and services is units are grouped into two divisions: the extraction methods, such as shale gas primarily driven by the tonnage of minerals Engineered Conveyor Solutions ECS extracted, handled and consumed.
Mineral fracking, which require our high division and the Advanced Engineered extraction and consumption tonnages are in performance products.
Despite regulatory Products AEP division.
These two divisions turn driven by the internal growth of emerging changes in the USA, the medical market looks enable us to develop expertise within each economies.
Coal is our most important favourable while construction remains weak market segment across our wide geographic market, followed by iron ore and copper ore. and the North American industrial market footprint.
Our culture of continuous Other minerals and aggregates are important has, to date, held up well.
improvement and investment ensures that in some geographic markets.
Energy coal our products meet and exceed the demands prices fell during the year despite production of customers.
volumes continuing to increase on a global ECS and AEP both provide premium quality, basis.
The USA has seen reductions in comprehensive, market focused, whole life consumption which were predominantly due Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 7 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Vision To be respected as the leading global provider of local, engineered solutions for performance-critical applications.
Strategy Our strategy is to increase market share and target new value added product areas to create a strong, growing and resilient company for the coming decades.
We will continue to concentrate on growing those businesses where we already demonstrate leadership through our skills in applications, design, materials technology and dedication to customer service as well as by carefully planned acquisitions to create value for all our stakeholders in a zero-harm environment.
Strategic goals Strong Growing Resilient Invest in human capital Maximise organic and acquired Performance-critical growth Extend intellectual property Aftermarket focus inventory Increase focus on faster growing Balanced portfolio emerging markets Maintain and improve business Exposure to long-term growth infrastructure Identify fast growing applications markets Sustain a secure balance sheet Corporate Responsibility Fenner acknowledges that its market leading position means it has social and environmental responsibilities that must be embedded within the business decision-making process.
These five elements continue to contribute to Fenners overall business success, bringing with it an enhancement to reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
Health and safety Our people Business behaviours Environment Community Those Key Performance Indicators which Details of the principal risks which could A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility are used to measure performance against potentially impact the progress of is set out on pages 50 to 56 strategy are set out on pages 27 to 28 strategy are set out on page 22 Outlook As we have highlighted, in the latter part of The AEP operations are trading satisfactorily, the year, ECS saw slower demand from the albeit with some pockets of moderate US coal sector offset by stronger demand destocking.
Recent acquisitions are expected elsewhere.
Order rates from the US coal to support continuing growth.
sector bottomed in May and have improved steadily since.
While we do not expect to benefit fully from the positive impact of this trend until the second half, the divisional order book is satisfactory overall.
Commodity prices have recently reduced which, while not directly weakening activity for ECS, may lead Nicholas Hobson to some short-term pressure on margins.
Chief Executive Officer Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 8
