Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Q&A Nicholas Hobson Richard Perry Chief Group Executive Officer Finance Director A high level of mining capital expenditure Q: What is Fenners Q: Do your end markets and is always welcome because it adds to the philosophy and practice businesses hold further future installed base of conveyors.
However, a reduction in mining capital for Health & Safety?
has limited direct effect on our ECS A: Health and safety is simply the number A: Fenner is well placed to continue to business.
one priority for everyone at Fenner.
exploit markets which have good, longterm growth characteristics.
In the Q: You have said that We believe that everyone who works for mineral extraction industry, representing additional production Fenner should expect to return home at approximately 54% of revenue, demand night in the same fit and healthy state in capacity will be coming for coal, iron ore and copper ore, despite which they came to work in the morning.
the current period of uncertainty, is online soon.
When do you Throughout the Group we work to fulfil projected to continue to grow over the expect this to be these objectives through a unique medium and longer term, driven by approach known as The Framework, industrialisation and urbanisation in BRIC available?
which communicates our expectations countries.
whilst encouraging every Fenner employee A: In the last year we have made capital The oil and gas industry, representing to participate in taking responsibility for investments of 29m in various Fenner approximately 6% of Group revenue, will health and safety through a process of operations around the world, more than benefit from growth in global energy continuous improvement.
half of which have been to expand our demand while the medical device market, capacity and capability to support our Since its launch in 2009, The Framework representing approximately 4% of Group customers.
Included in this total are approach has markedly improved the revenue, is expected to continue to grow three projects to increase our awareness and attention paid to health faster than GDP as populations age in manufacturing capacity for conveyor belt and safety and we have seen a steady developed economies and healthcare in China, Australia and the Netherlands.
decline in the frequency of injuries.
Our provision grows in developing economies.
All three of these projects are expected to health and safety journey is one of be completed during the winter of 2012 In addition, there are considerable continuous improvement across the and spring of 2013. opportunities for geographic expansion of Group: many parts are now focused on our successful business models into nonutilising leading indicators such as near Q: What are the main traditional markets and for product line misses and safety inspections as a extension to increase penetration of further means to improve our economic drivers for the performance, assisting us all.
Q: Many mining companies A detailed review of Corporate Responsibility A: The AEP division is made up of operations is set out on pages 50 to 56 have announced reviews which specialise in solving customers most difficult engineering problems in a and reductions of their wide range of market niches.
Whilst there Q: Fenner has enjoyed strong future capital investment is no single economic driver, the division growth in recent years.
has achieved annual compound revenue plans.
How do you expect growth at constant exchange rates of 8% What factors have this to affect Fenner?
contributed to this A: Conveyor belt is a consumable item in Approximately 20% of the divisions growth?
most applications and the market for revenues are derived from the oil and gas replacements is many times larger than market and 13% from the medical A: Sales revenue at constant exchange rates the market for belts used in new market, whose economic drivers are has increased at an annual, compound installations.
Fenners ECS division has growth in global energy consumption and rate of 11% for the last four years.
Organic been deliberately positioned to take global healthcare respectively.
A further growth in both divisions has accounted for advantage of this with 15 factories and 46 15% of revenue is driven by the approximately 60% of this total, with the service branches positioned in or close to construction industry which has been remainder coming from targeted many of the major mining regions of the rather depressed in recent years.
Fenner serves a number of world.
86% of the ECS divisions revenue remainder of the divisions products end markets, such as mining, energy and medical, which enjoy good, long-term in 2012 was from this aftermarket, the serve general industrial markets with growth characteristics and have been remaining 14% being from new North America being the predominant particularly strong in recent years.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 10 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued Q: Shale gas has been a Q: AEP margins remain in the Q: What was your experience volatile market.
How upper teens but softened last year with raw important is this market during the global financial material pricing?
and will you continue to crisis.
What caused the A: Generally, raw material prices have been stable in 2012 compared to the dramatic expand in this area?
margin compression and price increase environment experienced where should margin A: Shale gas production has grown rapidly in by our business teams in the prior year.
the USA over recent years and Fenner has expectations be for the Q: How will ECS grow in the participated in that growth through future and why?
Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies future?
Do you anticipate sealing products.
Spring of 2012 saw a A: Historic operating margins have been period of shale gas oversupply and rapidly further geographic remarkably stable in our AEP division.
The decreasing gas prices which has coverage in the division division comprises a number of specialist temporarily slowed development of US units operating in niches that have been shale gas resources.
This market and how will this be developed over many years from providing accounted for less than 2% of Fenners achieved?
engineered solutions to troublesome revenue in 2012 but we expect substantial customer applications.
growth in future years as American A: From a manufacturing standpoint, we unconventional drilling technology is used In economic downturns, the characteristic already possess an enviable worldwide to exploit reserves in other regions.
of the AEP division was that rather than footprint operating from 15 plants on five reversing its gains it merely stopped continents.
Business development is a growing for a period.
The global financial constant focus and we will build strength Q: Margins have increased crisis was quite a different environment.
in the emerging geographic areas where steadily over the past Driven by cash constraints throughout the our customers require our support and industrial world, our distribution partners which can be demonstrated to offer longthree years in ECS.
How and original equipment manufacturing term shareholder value.
This will likely has this been achieved customers were forced to reduce their take the form of infill organic investment stock holdings to preserve cash.
The and further service and technical and what progress do impact of these programmes on our AEP coverage rather than large scale spending you anticipate in the operations was immediate and serious.
Order books collapsed and our operating future?
We have recently announced the margins saw an 18 month period of conditional acquisition of Australian A: Margin improvements in ECS have been a reduced performance.
An important feature Conveyor Engineering which effectively result of three main factors: was the resilience of our gross margin completes our ECS technology platform in position which demonstrated the retained we have made considerable Australia.
value of our components in the markets improvements in manufacturing they served.
Operating margin compression productivity and process control as a Q: 12 months ago you was the result of reduced volumes and our result of our capital investments in decision to maintain our product launched the ECS brand.
recent years: development and customer service Why did you do this and new products have enabled us to gain capability throughout that difficult period.
share in steadily growing global has it been successful?
Margins have steadily returned to their markets: and historic norms over the past two years.
A: The ECS brand was launched to we have progressively extended the Initially this was due to the end of the demonstrate to the world that, after more technical capabilities and geographic customer destocking programmes and than a decade of hard work, Fenner footprint of our ECS programme was followed by the gradual improvement Dunlop is no longer just a belt which has enabled us to become a in end market activity levels.
manufacturer but is uniquely capable of more added value supplier to our offering customers total solutions to We remain focused on protecting and markets.
minimise downtime and reduce the total developing our existing business and cost of ownership of their conveying We anticipate a reduced rate of margin driving investment into high margin growth systems.
Although the vast areas such as our medical units and oil majority of the benefits of our capital and gas related areas.
These represent Delivering a message of this type is investments have been realised, there are exciting new developments in higher always a long process and we are pleased continuing opportunities to expand margin markets which are expected to with the initial response from both our market share and delivery of our ECS slowly improve the already excellent customers and financial markets.
margin performance of the division.
A detailed review of the ECS division is A detailed review of the AEP division is set out on pages 15 to 17 set out on pages 18 to 20 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 11 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview constantly develop exciting opportunities combination of organic and acquisitive Q: The North American coal for the creation of future shareholder growth.
industry has been affected value.
We have invested in excess of our Despite challenging trading conditions at depreciation charge of 20m in 2012 with by the availability of Xeridiem, medical revenues grew 29m of expenditure during the year, organically by 7% this year.
We continue to cheap, plentiful shale gas.
giving a capital expenditure depreciation target medical revenues of over $100m ratio of 1.4x.
With only approximately 9m What effect has this had on although this level will not quickly be of this amount being used for equipment achieved until our acquisition process Fenners operations?
replacement, it is evident that we are begins to bear fruit.
investing heavily in development, with A: US gas prices fell to a low in spring 2012 approximately 20m in 2012.
It is following a mild winter and overQ: How do you anticipate the anticipated that a similar level of exuberant development of shale gas development capital expenditure will be balance between AEP and resources.
As a result, those electricity invested in both 2013 and 2014. generators who were able to do so began ECS developing in the to switch fuel source from coal to gas, The capital expenditure programme is future?
leading to a decline in coal consumption of complemented by our business acquisition approximately 9%.
Since then, mining activity where 34m was invested in the A: Both the AEP and ECS divisions have companies have sought to adjust their 2012 financial year and a further 40m in grown at comparable rates over the last production rates to match lower demand the opening month of the current year.
four years and therefore the balance of and a number of less efficient, higher cost revenues has been fairly stable with ECS coal mines have been mothballed or closed.
Q: Fenner has recently at 71% and AEP at 29%.
announced three In our North American ECS operations, we We are committed to a strategy of have experienced slower incoming order continuing to invest for growth in both acquisitions in AEP.
How rates since early summer although the divisions and therefore any major change do they fit within the AEP effect on 2012 trading was largely offset by in the revenue balance is unlikely in the strong demand patterns in other regions.
It is clear that the US coal and gas A: Our acquisition strategy for the AEP Q: The rate of dividend was industries are currently in a period of division is focused on the oil and gas and uncertainty.
As we enter the new financial increased significantly in medical markets due to their attractive year, US gas prices have increased by underlying growth fundamentals.
How should we view more than 50% and coal stockpiles have Norwegian Seals supplies performancealso reduced.
At current prices, shale gas the policy going forward?
critical seals for the subsea oil and gas production is expected to naturally wane market and focuses on the Norwegian A: Fenner has a good record in terms of and the effects of recent events will begin continental shelf and North Sea fields dividend performance which it has to reverse.
from facilities in Norway and the UK.
guarded through many economic The fundamentals of the coal extraction downturns.
Since the dividend was American Industrial Plastics has industry in North America remain sound.
reinstated in 1994, the dividend has never remarkable expertise in ultra-high The economic extraction prices of natural been passed or reduced.
The gas and coal determine that the coal facility in Daytona Beach, Florida serves a The Group invested heavily during the mid industry has a long life ahead of it.
number of end markets, the most 2000s and improved its earnings quality.
Investment is continuing in efficient new important being oil and gas and medical.
Today, Fenner is a different business to mines and port infrastructure to support the one that saw the turn of the both domestic demand and the growing The Mandals group of companies millennium.
It is better equipped and export market.
demonstrates many of the same more flexible, with an enviable diversity of attributes as other AEP operations and geography and markets which have driven Q: Organic capital investment has developed world-leading technologies higher quality earnings and an for the manufacture of lay-flat hoses used has been a characteristic expectation of greater resilience in harder in various fluid handling markets economic conditions.
of the Group in the past including oil and gas, agriculture and mine dewatering.
The dividend was increased by 31% in five years.
What should we 2012 to reflect the 57% increase in expect in the future?
Q: How quickly can the underlying earnings per share in 2011 and medical operations a further 28% in 2012.
At this level, the A: We embarked upon a very considerable dividend cover is in excess of three times.
capital investment programme from 2006 expand?
The programme was successfully The Group is committed to maintaining a achieved through organic implemented and, together with progressive policy in regard to its acquisitions, has created a virtuous circle growth or acquisition?
dividend, which will be reviewed annually of cash generation that is available for in the context of the prevailing conditions.
Our teams operate in A: The expansion of Fenners medical many geographic end markets and activities is expected to occur through a Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 12 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued Q: Group gearing remains conservative, supported by good free cash flow from profitable operations.
A: Share capital is an expensive and valuable resource which should be put to work with sensible levels of complementary leverage.
The fixed-term nature of our senior debt directs us to maintain a net debt to underlying EBITDA ratio of at least 1x in order to ensure efficient utilisation of the facilities available to us.
With a global debt covenant of in excess of 3.5x, we would not expect this ratio to exceed 1.5x in normal trading conditions.
Q: What are the risk factors that worry you?
A: Investment in manufacturing on a global scale is inherently a risky business over the short term: control of our operating risks is therefore a part of our existence.
We believe that the quality of our people and the flexibility that our recent investments have built into our operations mitigates these risks.
Macro-economic trends beyond our control remain the most significant variable in our operating universe.
Our defence is our diversity, but a macro event that impacts markets on a global scale would inevitably lead to a challenging environment for our Group.
Q: Do you have any plans for a future share issue?
A: Our balance sheet strength, secure debt financing and free cash flow generation are currently seen as sufficient to finance our existing plans.
This does not preclude an approach to our shareholders in the event of a value generating proposition being developed: however, there are currently no plans or need for such an approach.
