Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement In acknowledgement of the progress made since the IPO, as well as the significant milestone of reaching first ore at FYM, the Directors are pleased to announce a special dividend of 6.6 US cents pershare.
As in previous years, the Directors arerecommending an unchanged final ordinary dividend of 3.3 US cents per share.
10 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Introduction Ferrexpo maintained satisfactory levels of In the last five years, since its IPO, profitability reflecting lower market prices Ferrexpo has made significant progress and industry cost inflation while retaining in achieving its strategic objectives.
its competitive position on the global cost curve for iron ore. EBITDA for the In the face of general cost inflation prevalent in period was US$402 million 2011: US$801 the mining industry, the Group has maintained million.
Group profit after tax declined to its position as a competitive cost producer US$216 million 2011: US$575 million.
of pellets and in 2012 it lowered its seaborne freight costs delivering more product via Net cash flows from operating activities were capesize vessels both enhancing margins US$119 million for the period 2011: US$503 and allowing Ferrexpo to provide a better million reflecting higher working capital service to first class steel mills around the requirements following a US$130 million world with its high quality iron ore product.
increase in VAT receivables outstanding in Ukraine during the year.
The gross Ukrainian The Group has continued to develop its VAT receivable balance as at 31 December asset base through the modernisation of 2012 was US$302 million, a US$20 million the existing mine and processing facilities discount has been recorded to reflect the at Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM, and in time value of money for VAT due to the 2012 by opening its second mine, Ferrexpo expectation that a portion of VAT will be Yeristovo Mining FYM, the first new iron recovered after more than one year.
ore mine in the CIS for many years.
Once mining operations at FYM have ramped up, During the year the Group spent US$429 Ferrexpo will have two mines in full operation million 2011: US$380 million on capital providing associated cost benefits through investment in its existing and new mines higher output and remains on track to increase as well as on logistics infrastructure, which production in 2013 and to reach its target of was the highest level of annual capital 12 million tonnes of pellet production in 2014. investment at Ferrexpo on record.
As a result of the above factors, Ferrexpo At the period end, Ferrexpo had net debt has reduced its operational and financial risk of US$423 million 2011: US$80 million.
and enhanced its reputation as a premium supplier of pellets with excellent quality and Dividend service.
In the financial markets, Ferrexpo Ordinary Dividend is increasingly recognised for its sound As is consistent with the Groups dividend management and good governance.
policy since listing, of paying a modest sustainable dividend commensurate with Results the growth profile of the business through Group revenue declined by 20% to US$1.4 the economic cycle, the Board of Directors billion for the 12 months ended 31 December recommend a final dividend in respect of 2012 2011: US$1.8 billion due to lower profits generated for the Group in 2012 of market prices for iron ore.
In 2012, the average 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 2011 final benchmark price for 62% Fe iron ore fines dividend: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share for to China CFR fell by 24% to US$128 per payment on 31 May 2013 to shareholders on tonne compared to an average of US$168 the register at the close of business on 3 May per tonne in 2011.
The dividend will be paid in UK Pounds were in line with 2011 at 9.7 million tonnes.
Sterling with an election to receive US Dollars.
1 The Groups average C1 cash cost of Special Dividend production increased by 18% to US$60 per The Group has invested significantly over tonne, compared to the average C1 cash the past five years and has maintained its cost in 2011 of US$51 per tonne.
This was dividend since IPO at 6.6 US cents per due to increased electricity tariffs and gas share split equally between interim and final prices as well as local inflation while the payments.
The Group is continuing to invest Ukrainian Hryvnia remained stable against in its operations and the Directors believe it is the US Dollar.
Since October 2008 when appropriate at the current time to maintain the C1 costs reached US$51, overall cost ordinary dividend at its current level until further inflation has amounted to 4% per year.
In recognition of the Left to right: 1 The C1 cash cost of production per tonne is defined as the opening of the Yeristovo mine which lowers Kostyantin Zhevago, cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore to the the operational risk profile of the business and Chief Executive Officer, mine gate divided by production volume of own ore, and Michael Abrahams, given Ferrexpos strong balance sheet the excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension CBE DL, Chairman costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore, Directors are pleased to announce a special concentrate and production cost of gravel.
11 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Demand for iron ore pellets has been steadily increasing due to declining availability of high quality lump iron ore. dividend of 6.6 US cents per share, amounting on sinter plant emissions.
CRU estimates that An integrated and well-invested logistics to approximately US$39 million, for payment demand for pellets will show a compound system is an essential and a key competitive on 28 March 2013 to shareholders on the annual growth rate of 5% from 2012 to 2017 advantage for a bulk commodity producer.
register at the close of business on 22 March compared to total iron ore consumption of Inaddition to the Groups port facilities, as 2013.
This dividend will be paid in UK Pounds 4% per annum for the same period.
CRU at 31 December 2012 Ferrexpo owned just Sterling with an election to receive US Dollars.
expects the premium for pellets over sinter under 2,000 rail cars enabling it to transport fines to remain at around US$30 per tonne ahigh proportion of its pellets to border points Market Environment for this period although this could fluctuate with its own fleet, reducing its reliance on In 2012, according to the World Steel according to the level of steel demand.
state rail cars and lowering transportation Association, global crude steel production costs.
Ferrexpo also has in place a large grew 1% to 1.6 billion tonnes while the Marketing and Logistics barging fleet operating on the Danube and average capacity utilisation of steel mills Ferrexpos marketing strategy is to supply Rhine rivers further securing reliable access declined to 79% from 81% in 2011.
China, the worlds leading steel producers, who to customers in Central and Eastern Europe.
the principal driver of the iron ore market in are focused on producing high quality recent years, increased its steel production steel for premium applications.
Resource Base by 3% to 717 million tonnes and accounted Ferrexpo holds the licences to the largest iron for 46% of global steel production.
Ferrexpo aims to supply a geographically ore resource base in Europe.
This resource diversified customer portfolio under longbase is situated along a single ore body CRU estimates that in 2012 the global term framework agreements.
Indeed it containing 10 adjacent deposits, which allows consumption of iron ore increased 1% while has been servicing some of its customers the Group to efficiently expand production production was marginally below 2011 levels.
for decades securing reliable off-take through brownfield developments.
The The industry move to a generally accepted volumes.
The Group enjoys a balanced deposits exploited by the subsidiary FPM have benchmark pricing mechanism based on sales portfolio with approximately half of consistent geology and a long-life production spot prices ensured that the market remained sales derived from Central and Eastern profile.
The opening and development of largely in balance, although iron ore pricing Europe while the remainder originates the Yeristovskoye deposit in 2012 through was volatile, moving from US$140 per tonne from Western Europe, Turkey and Asia.
the subsidiary FYM fully utilises known at the beginning of 2012 to a three year low and existing technology and infrastructure, of US$87 per tonne before finishing the A critically important logistics focus of the as well as the Groups current skills.
year around the US$145 per tonne level.
Company is to secure reliable and competitive shipping to customers in Asia compared As of 1 January 2013, Ferrexpo had Production of iron ore remains highly to the major pellet producers from Brazil.
estimated proved and probable reserves of concentrated with the top four producers Ukraines central location allows Ferrexpo 1.5 billion tonnes classified according to the accounting for over 70% of seaborne to ship at increasingly competitive rates JORC Code.
These reserves are included iron ore production in 2012.
Historically, to the major iron ore pellet markets.
The in estimated resources of approximately there have been challenges in developing Group has a 49% stake in the TIS-Ruda port 6.8 billion tonnes classified according to greenfield iron ore projects including access terminal at Yuzhny on the Black Sea with a the JORC Code.
Ferrexpo has further to affordable financing, a lack of equipment, capacity of over 5 million tonnes per annum.
estimated resources of over 13.2 billion skills shortages, prohibitive logistics costs In 2012, the Group invested in upgrading its tonnes classified under the methodology and local permitting and geopolitical loading and shipping capabilities to allow used in the Former Soviet Union.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch for the routine use of capesize vessels.
estimates that as much as 260 million tonnes As a result, Ferrexpo loaded 17 capesize Production of iron ore capacity was either delayed vessels compared to nine in 2011 and it In 2012, FPM produced 9,409 thousand or cancelled during 2012 as the above intends to further increase this method of tonnes of pellets from own ore, a 4% increase challenges impacted project economics.
shipment in 2013 by loading over 30 capesize compared to 9,063 thousand tonnes of vessels.
In December 2012, Ferrexpos pellets produced in 2011.
This includes With regards to iron ore pellets, demand has transshipment vessel, Iron Destiny, was put 108 thousand tonnes of pellets mined from been steadily increasing due to declining in operation which should allow the Group FYM ore.
The production of pellets from availability of high quality lump iron ore to further reduce international freight costs.
purchased third party concentrate was lower and growing environmental pressure due to reduced availability of concentrate 12 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements onthe local market at prices able to generate rate LTIFR at FPM continued to fall to 0.74 positive margins, as such total production per million man hours worked 2011: 0.82. declined by 1% to 9,690 thousand tonnes FYM, the Groups new operating mine, compared with 9,811 thousand tonnes in experienced no lost-time injuries during the 2011.
The average pellet iron content from year which was a major accomplishment.
Overall, the Groups total LTIFR in 2012 was 0.66 compared to 0.77 in 2011.
Importantly, FPM continued throughout the year with the modernisation programme of its The management of Ferrexpo fosters and existing mining and processing facilities whilst continually develops a culture of safety in maintaining consistent and reliable production.
the organisation, linking safety performance to remuneration.
The Group has regular The current level of production from own safety audits by DuPont and is determined ore represents full mining capacity of to continue to follow international best approximately 30 million tonnes per year practice as well as to set the standard for 30%average iron content.
Once processed mining companies operating in the CIS.
into iron ore pellets with an average content of 63.3%, this translates into 9,301 thousand Costs tonnes of pellets.
The Group intends to FPM is a cost competitive producer on the increase its annualised pellet production global iron ore concentrate cost curve on both from own ore to 12.0 million tonnes in a FOB and CFR China basis.
To accomplish this, it will continue cost of converting its iron ore concentrate into to develop the FYM mine, where first ore pellet form positions it as a profitable producer was reached in the second half of 2012. on the global pelletising market through the commodities cycle.
Crucially, this combination Health and Safety of low cost concentrate production and pellet In accordance with the Groups policy of conversion has enabled it to sustain positive continuously improving safety standards, operating cash flows every quarter since 2006.
Ferrexpo is pleased to report that there have been no fatalities at its mines in well over two For the year ended 31 December 2012, the years and that the lost-time injury frequency C1 cash cost of production of pellets from own ore was US$60 per tonne compared to US$51 per tonne in 2011.
In line with the industry, the increase in costs was driven Health and Safety Highlights by higher energy prices and local inflation.
No fatalities in two years Regular safety audits Just over half of C1 cash costs are LTIFR continuing to fall denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
The Hryvnia has remained largely stable since 2009 at UAH8 to the US Dollar.
Prior to the devaluation of the Hryvnia at the end of 2008, when it depreciated from UAH5 to UAH8 to the US Dollar, production Caterpillar 793D truck at FYM costs peaked at US$51 per tonne.
In this context, since 2008 production costs have increased by a compound annual growth rate of 4% per annum.
Ferrexpo offsets cost increases by increasing output and producing at maximum capacity to ensure full absorption of the fixed cost base.
Improved energy efficiencies are also achieved through the Business Improvement Programme BIP which aims to reduce the C1 cost of production by 1% to 2% per annum on a constant output basis.
The BIP programme has resulted in an overall reduction in the C1 cost of US$7 per tonne or US$64 million since its inception in 2006.
Looking forward, it is anticipated that the 13 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued mining and processing of FYM ore will have utilising crude ore from FYM.
These projects Ferrexpo has maintained a positive impact on the Groups overall are progressing on time and to budget.
strict financial discipline production cost through lower mining costs and the addition of higher grade ore.
The next phase of investment concerns the over many years.
construction of a 10mtpa concentrator at FYM Capital Investments to process the remaining crude ore that it can Ferrexpo aims to finance capital investment mine annually total annual mining capacity is out of operating cash flows and, excluding expected to be 28 million tonnes.
In October the increase in the Groups VAT receivable, 2012, the Board of Directors approved has broadly done so in 2012 and the US$30 million to begin this development in five year period since 2007.
As such, the 2013 which, subject to market conditions, pace of investment inevitably depends is targeted to begin concentrate production on the market price for iron ore. Group in 2016 and to ramp up to full production policy is to ensure that the balance sheet by the end of 2017.
Thus, following further does not become over leveraged and capital expenditure, Ferrexpo expects to that Ferrexpo has a sustainable funding produce approximately 12 million tonnes position despite iron ore price fluctuations.
of pellets per annum with 65% iron content and 8 to 10 million tonnes of concentrate The Group is part way through a US$650 per annum with up to 67% iron content, million investment programme to increase the doubling output from 2012 production levels.
quality and quantity of its pellet output.
The successful implementation of this programme The Group will continue to evaluate, and will enable Ferrexpo to increase output at if appropriate, invest in NPV accretive FPM by approximately one third to 12 million opportunities, both within the Company tonnes of pellet per annum in 2014 from and externally, that fide-risk and diversify current production levels of 9.4 million tonnes its operations.
of pellet per annum and to further increase the quality of the Groups pellet output to 65% iron Financial Management content currently average pellet iron content Ferrexpo has maintained strict financial is 63.3% in 2015.
The increase to 12mtpa of discipline over many years.
Key aspects of pellet output is expected to be initially achieved the Groups approach include funding capital expenditures out of operating cash flows and where appropriate debt, maintaining robust liquidity and retaining competitive CSR Highlights credit metrics and cost of financing.
Significant investor in local community initiatives 23% of the local working population are employed by the Group Ferrexpos financial position reflects this Unemployment in the town of Komsomolsk is significantly below strategy, as evidenced by the strong balance the national average sheet, low gearing and EBITDA to debt ratios 1 and competitive cost of financing.
Net gearing was 21% as of 31 December 2012 compared to 5% as of 31 December 2011 and net debt to EBITDA was 1.05x as of 31 December 2012 IT lesson at school in Komsomolsk compared to 0.1x as of 31 December 2011.
The Groups average cost of debt in 2012 was 5.24% a 1% improvement compared to 2011 at 6.23%.
As of 31 December 2012, the Group had net debt of US$423 million which included cash of US$597 million.
In 2013, Ferrexpo has minimal debt repayments of approximately US$19 million.
1 Net gearing is calculated as net financial indebtedness over net financial indebtedness plus shareholders equity.
14 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo will continue with its strategy of developing its significant resource base, improving the quality of its pellets, and further advancing its logistics infrastructure to enhance its service to first class steel customers around the world with its premium iron ore product.
VAT CSR People Ukraine is a young democracy which In 1960 the town of Komsomolsk was 2012 has been a notable year in the history has been subject to various changes in established adjacent to the Poltava mine of Ferrexpo.
Without the dedication and government over the past 20 years.
As is to support the mining and processing commitment of all Ferrexpo employees common with developing economies there operations.
Ferrexpo remains the largest this would not have been possible.
The is a risk that the country may develop in a employer in the town, which has a population Board would very much like to thank manner that is adverse to general business of approximately 55,000 people, of which the management and staff for their practice.
These operating risks are commonly approximately 23% of the working population continued hard work which directly faced by all mining companies in emerging are employed by the Group.
Ferrexpo has contributes to the progress achieved.
markets, and the Board believes Ferrexpo been a significant investor in local community has the expertise to manage them.
initiatives from the outset, investing funds Strategy and Outlook in the social infrastructure of Komsomolsk Ferrexpo will continue with its strategy of As of 31 December 2012, Ferrexpo was and the surrounding area.
These funds developing its significant resource base, owed US$302 million of VAT by the Ukrainian have been spent on medical facilities, improving the quality of its products, and government, the majority of which is social services, education, religion, culture further advancing its logistics infrastructure significantly overdue.
This amount has been and sporting activities, as well as on the to enhance its service to first class steel discounted by US$20 million to US$282 maintenance of certain of the citys social and customers around the world with its million in order to reflect the cost of financing cultural structures.
In 2012, Ferrexpo spent premium iron ore pellets.
It will do so in a cost those VAT balances that are expected to be approximately UAH166 million US$21million competitive manner to ensure it can deliver its recovered more than one year after the period 2011: UAH102 million or US$12 million product reliably through the commodity cycle.
As part of the procedure on community projects.
Due to Ferrexpos adopted in Ukraine, it is common for VAT presence as a major local employer and The Group is well placed to increase its claims to be challenged by the government in its contributions to community initiatives, production from 9.4 million tonnes of pellets, the court system.
A significant portion of the unemployment in Komsomolsk is from own ore, with an average iron content of VAT outstanding is currently being challenged significantly below the national average, 63.3%, to its stated goal of 12 million tonnes of in this way, although the Directors believe that and the average salary is significantly pellets per annum in 2014.
The Group is also the full amounts will eventually be recovered.
on track to increase the average iron content of its pellets to 65% in 2015.
As Ferrexpos The late repayment of VAT is, in the view Corporate Governance total output of crude ore ramps up following of the Directors, a result of the Ukrainian The Board remains dedicated to maintaining the opening of the FYM pit, it will be in a governments current weak fiscal position.
the highest standards of corporate position to build further processing facilities The Directors believe that there is a risk that governance in the conduct of its business and double production output.
This will be continued fiscal weakness could further throughout the Group, as well as instilling a undertaken in accordance with the Directors preclude the prompt repayment of VAT for culture of commitment and accountability in all approach to prudent debt management some time.
This would lead to higher levels employees.
Ferrexpo has fully complied, since and adequate levels of liquidity consistent of working capital and increase the risk of its 2007 listing, with the Combined Code on with the cyclical nature of the business.
a financial loss when repayment occurs Corporate Governance, and since 2011 with which would depend on the eventual type the UK Corporate Governance Code of 2010.
Overall, pricing for the iron ore market remains of repayment and the prevailing exchange difficult to predict while the economic outlook rate if repayment was made in local currency.
The Board is comprised of eight members: for Ukraine is uncertain.
In this environment, Ferrexpo continues to have a constructive a Non-executive Chairman, four independent Ferrexpos proven management team will dialogue with the Ukrainian authorities Non-executive Directors, one Non-executive continue to implement its strategy, and the regarding the repayment of overdue VAT.
Director and two Executive Directors.
The Directors believe that the Group will make Board believes that this is an appropriate further progress during the current year.
size and structure to manage the Group successfully.
15 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Strategic Priorities Delivering the Groups vision to be a sustainable iron ore producer To develop the Groups through the commodity cycle.
significant resource base FYM open pit as of 31 May 2012 Ferrexpos significant resource base the largest in Europe is situated along a single ore body, which enables efficient expansion through brownfield development.
Whats been achieved in 2012 First ore at FYM, the first new iron ore mine in the CIS for many years Mine life expansion at FPM Land acquisition and feasibility studies underway at FBM Objectives for 2013 Ramp up of FYM ore to commercial production Continuation of mine life extension at FPM Development of feasibility study at FBM Key performance indicators Crude ore mined million tonnes 2012 29.8 1.1 30.9 2011 29.6 2010 28.9 2009 28.5 2008 27.8 2007 28.9 FPM FYM 16 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements To improve the quality Maintain a competitive of the Groups pellets cost of production Ferrexpo sells high Ferrexpo is well quality iron ore positioned on the pellets to premium global cost curve customers.
Ferrexpo is on track to increase the average quality of its pellets from Ferrexpo believes it is a competitive cost producer of iron ore 63.3% iron content to 65% iron content in 2015.
Currently, 65% iron concentrate with relatively low pelletising costs on a FOB & CFR basis, content pellets account for approximately half of output.
allowing it to be among the most competitive iron ore pellet producers globally.
This has allowed Ferrexpo to maintain positive operating cash flows each quarter since 2006.
Whats been achieved in 2012 Whats been achieved in 2012 Modernisation of key grinding and WMS sections dedicated to the Since October 2008 when C1 costs reached US$51, overall cost higher grade concentrate circuit inflation has amounted to 4% per year Construction of flotation capacity to yield higher grade pellets The BIP has reduced the C1 cash cost by US$6.9 per tonne Upgrade of the balling machines and installed larger capacity since2005 vacuum filters Installation of a new annular cooling ring Objectives for 2013 Objectives for 2013 Complete construction of first of two new flotation sections, Offset cost inflation through higher production volumes including five vertimills Maintain the current level of the C1 cash cost at constant currency Installation of new concentrator mixers Evaluation of new gas burners for pellet kilns Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Capital Investment US$ millions Maintain competitive cost position US$ tonne 150 120 2012 35 90 2011 3.2 Ferrexpo 2010 2.8 60 2009 0.0 30 2008 0.0 2007 0.0 0 CIF China 62% Fe equivalent units concentrate cash cost 1.4 bnt Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch, January 2013 17 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued To expand the Groups To open and develop logistics capabilities new markets and customers A critical focus is to Ferrexpos location secure reliable and in Ukraine allows competitive shipping it to supply a to customers in geographically Europe and Asia diverse customer compared to major base.
Ferrexpo supplies some of the worlds leading steel producers, which A key aspect of long-term sustainable competitive costs with consistent are focused on producing high quality steel for premium applications.
production and product delivery is an integrated and well-invested The Group allocates a portion of sales to potential new customers logistics system.
In this context, Ferrexpo owns almost 2,000 rail cars, over 140 barges and has a 48.6% ownership in a port terminal on the through trial spot cargoes, and have conducted such trials with several BlackSea.
significant producers in Asia and Germany ahead of the planned production growth from FYM.
Whats been achieved in 2012 Whats been achieved in 2012 Significant reduction in seaborne freight costs which increased A new long-term contract with a customer in Europe theGroups net sales price Captured significant market share with Chinas leading steel mill Arrival of Ferrexpos own transhipment vessel Trial cargoes to premium steel producers in Asia Further acquisition of rail cars Objectives for 2013 Objectives for 2013 Transshipment efficiency gains To convert previous trial cargoes into long-term contracts Loading of over 30 capesize vessels Increased production volume to be shipped to seaborne markets Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Seaborne freight cost US$ tonne New Markets % of volume sold 1H 2010 2H 2010 1H 2011 2H 2011 1H 2012 2H 2012 1H 2013 50 40 2012 51 2011 47 30 2010 34 20 2009 47 2008 22 10 2007 19 0 Sourced from C3 Baltic Index Ferrexpo, Yuzhny-Qindao C3 Tubarao-Qindao % of sales volumes to growth and natural market segments 18 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements To maintain adequate liquidity To be a responsible and low balance sheet gearing corporate citizen As at 31 December In 2012 Ferrexpo 2012 Ferrexpo refurbished the had cash of local swimming US$597 million.
Ferrexpos financial focus is on employing strict financial discipline to Ferrexpos commitment to corporate social responsibility derives from a ensure financial stability through the economic cycle.
strong belief that the Groups licence to operate will be underpinned by the Groups CSR performance.
Whats been achieved in 2012 Whats been achieved in 2012 Further diversified sources of funding with an increase in Export No work related fatalities during 2012 or 2011, and the lost time Credit Agency lending, lowering the Group average cost of funding injury frequency rate continued to improve, reaching the lowest point and lengthening debt maturities in the Groups history Total emission levels NO, SO, CO and dust declined vs. 2011 2 2 2 and were within regulated limits FPM & FYM continued to foster relationships with local communities e. g. supply of new equipment to schools, construction of new apartments for employees, supply of medical equipment to local and regional hospitals, provision of medicines to pensioners Objectives for 2013 Objectives for 2013 Continue to review the international debt capital markets as a Maintain the trend towards lower emissions per tonne of potential source of financing subject to market conditions pellets produced while continuing to develop the mine and Continue to manage the debt profile of the Company through increase production lower cost funding and longer dated maturities Continue to support the community through various initiatives aimed at helping children through to pensioners Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Net debt to EBITDA Fatalities 2012 1.1 2012 0 2011 0.1 2011 0 2010 0.2 2010 1 2009 2009 1.9 0 2008 0.4 2008 3 2007 0.4 2007 1 19 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Risks The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing theGroups business that follows below is based on the Boards current understanding.
Due to the very nature ofrisk it cannot be expected to be completely exhaustive.
New risks may emerge and the severity or probability associated with knownrisks may change over time.
Risks Relating to the Groups Operations Iron Ore Prices and Market Possible impact Mitigation Associated Fluctuations in iron ore prices as well as in demand may negatively Ferrexpo has a competitive cost base which has enabled it to 1 strategic priority impact the financial result of the Group.
produce at full capacity and remain profitable throughout the commodities cycle.
The Group has an established, broad customer base and logistics infrastructure which can service regional and seaborne markets.
This provides flexibility should a particular region experience a decline in demand.
Mining Risks and Hazards Possible impact Mitigation Associated Mining risks and hazards may result in material mine or plant Safety, environmental and operational performance is regularly 1 strategic priority shutdowns or periods of reduced production.
Such events could and rigorously reviewed throughout the organisation including damage the Groups operating results and reputation.
the COO, the Executive Committee and the Board.
Through its capital investment programme Ferrexpo is modernising its mining and production facilities which is improving safety, environmental and operational performance.
All accidents are fully investigated and lessons are drawn and implemented.
Appropriate safety training is regularly provided to employees.
Employee remuneration is linked to safety performance.
20 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Reliance on StateMonopolies Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Group purchases certain goods and services from state-owned The factors affecting the Groups future cost structure are 1 strategic priority enterprises, and changes in the related tariffs affect the Groups cost closely managed.
Availability of services can also be limited, which could affect the Cost reduction initiatives are planned and reported to the Board.
Groups ability to produce and deliver pellets.
Examples include railway Since inception of BIP in 2006, it has reduced the C1 cash cost by tariffs and availability of rail wagons, supply of gas and electricity and US$6.90 per tonne of pellets.
associated tariffs, and mining royalties.
The Group has purchased its own rail wagons to reduce reliance on state-owned rail cars.
The Group sourced alternative gas supplies in January 2009 when there were gas price disputes between Russia and Ukraine.
Ferrexpo actively looks to invest in areas to reduce reliance on state monopolies.
Logistics Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Groups logistics capability is dependent on services provided by The Group continues to invest in its logistics capabilities in order to 1 strategic priority third parties and state-owned organisations, mainly in relation to rail ensure available capacity, better service its customers, lower costs and port services.
Logistical bottlenecks may affect the Groups ability and to reduce reliance on third party providers.
Beside to distribute its products on time, impacting customer relationships.
considerable investment in the rail car fleet over recent years, Ferrexpo owns 143 barges operating on the Danube Rhine River corridor.
It also owns a 48.6% in the port of TIS-Ruda which guarantees the Group independent access to the seaborne markets avoiding reliance on the state port.
Counterparty Risk Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Group operates in Ukraine which has a weak country credit The financial strength of all of the Groups counterparties is subject 1 strategic priority profile as defined by international credit rating agencies.
Financial to regular and thorough review.
The results of these reviews are instability of the Groups counterparties, including its major customers, used to determine appropriate levels of exposures consistent with suppliers, Ukrainian Government and local financial institutions and benefits obtained in order to mitigate the potential risk of financial banks could lead to lower sales volumes, delays in projects and loss.
The Group has not experienced any financial losses from interruption of production or financial loss and adversely affect its transactions with its counterparties.
The Group regularly reviews its supplier base in order to avoid excessive dependence on any supplier, actively encouraging a diversity of supply where possible.
Licences Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 See also Risk relating to the Groups strategy Government The Group complies with commitments under its various licences strategic priority approvals of expansion.
in order to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or, if appropriate, waivers are obtained.
Mining and land allotment licences are critical to the Groups operations, and there can be no guarantee that they will be renewed or that additional licences will be obtained.
This could adversely affect the Groups operations and its ability to develop in the future.
Risks Relating to Finance Exchange Rate Risk Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 The Group receives the majority of its income in US Dollars while a Historical weakness of the Ukrainian Hryvnia in times of low strategic priority large proportion of its costs are denominated in Ukrainian Hryvnia.
commodity prices has provided a natural hedge during downturns in the commodity cycle.
All of the Groups revenues and An appreciation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia against the US Dollar could associated debt are denominated in US Dollars.
have a negative impact on the profitability of the Group.
21 1 Please see pages 16 and 19 for the KPI associated with the Strategic Priorities.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Risks Relating to Finance continued Interest Rate Risk Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 A portion of the Groups finance facility is linked to US Dollar LIBOR The Group has optimised its debt structure, maintaining low strategic priority rates.
An increase in interest rates will have a negative impact on the balance sheet gearing.
As a result, its interest costs are a low Groups financial costs, thus affecting profitability.
Financing Risk Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Groups development projects may be funded using debt secured The Groups financing risk has been mitigated by the issue of a 1 strategic priority with financial guarantees.
There is a risk that cancellation of contracts US$500 million Eurobond and a US$420 million bank facility.
as a result of force majeure events and or lower iron ore pellet prices The average debt maturity at 31 December 2012 was three years.
would limit the amount of funding available to the Group, and could The Group has minimal debt repayments of US$19 million in 2013. prompt lenders of existing finance facilities to require Ferrexpo to assign additional contracts to meet agreed ratios.
Risks Relating to the Groups Strategy Expansion Capital Investment Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 The Groups growth depends on its ability to upgrade existing facilities The Group has established strict procedures to control, monitor strategic priority and develop its iron ore resource base.
For any major capital project and manage this expenditure which is regularly reviewed by the there is a risk of insufficient controls, cost overruns, shortage of Investment and Executive Committee and the Board.
required skills, and unexpected technical problems affecting the time taken to complete the project and the return on the capital invested.
Government Approvals of Expansion Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Group does not yet have all the governmental approvals required Ferrexpo maintains an open and proactive relationship with various 1 strategic priority to develop future deposits.
Although all approvals that have been governmental authorities and is fully aware of the importance of applied for have been granted, there is no guarantee that others will be compliance with local legislation and standards.
The Group monitors and reviews its commitments under its various mining licences in order to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers obtained.
Ferrexpo maintains strict compliance with the Ukrainian mining code and execution of work in accordance with the project design through active engagement of Ukrainian and international legal advisers.
22 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Risks Relating to Operations in Ukraine Political Possible impact Mitigation Associated Ukraine is a young democracy which has been subject to various Management proactively engages with local, regional and central 1 strategic priority changes in government over the past 20 years.
As is common with government.
Ferrexpo protects its local and international interests developing economies there is a risk that the country may develop in a by ensuring it operates to the very highest international standards manner that is adverse to general business practice.
This could include and actively defends its rights.
a weak judicial system that is susceptible to outside influence.
The Group faces an ongoing legal claim over a shareholding in Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
The case has been running for more than six years in Ukraine, and the Directors believe it still has some way to go.
The Board continues to receive legal advice that the case against Ferrexpo has little legal merit under Ukrainian law for legal, technical and practical reasons.
Ukrainian Producer Price Inflation PPI Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 As the Groups operations are in Ukraine it is exposed to cost inflation.
The Groups BIP has achieved continuing efficiency improvements strategic priority Ukraine has experienced high levels of inflation over a number of years.
and cost reductions over many years.
Since inception of BIP in The inflationary environment increases local costs if not mitigated by 2006, the cash cost of production has reduced by US$6.90 per a devaluation of the Ukrainian currency and operational efficiency tonne of pellets.
The Group also has a consistent track record improvements.
of producing at full capacity to achieve maximum overhead absorption and is set to expand production output in 2013.
Ukrainian VAT Receivable See Note 26 in the Accounts Possible impact Mitigation Associated 1 As the bulk of the Groups output is exported, it does not collect The Group maintains an open dialogue with the Government and strategic priority substantial amounts of VAT on sales which could otherwise be offset operates to best international standards, ensuring the validity of against VAT incurred on purchases of goods and services for the VAT repayments.
The Ukrainian government refunds the outstanding balance of VAT, although not always on a timely basis.
The late repayment of VAT results in increased working capital, which must be funded from operating cash flows and debt.
Ukrainian VAT balances are exposed to a risk of devaluation of the UAH.
The country of Ukraine as the debtor of the VAT balances has a rating of B S&P.
As of 31 December 2012, Ferrexpo was owed US$302 million of VAT by the Ukrainian government, the majority of which is significantly overdue.
This amount has been discounted by US$20 million to US$282 million in order to reflect the cost of financing those VAT balances that are expected to be recovered more than one year after the period in which they arose.
As part of the procedure adopted in Ukraine, it is common for VAT claims to be challenged by the government in the court system.
A significant portion of the VAT outstanding is currently being challenged in this way, although the Directors believe that the full amounts will eventually be recovered.
Ukrainian Taxes See Note 36 in the Accounts Possible impact Mitigation Associated The Group is exposed to changes in local tax laws especially in The Group takes regular advice on tax matters from Ukraine tax 1 strategic priority Ukraine.
Ukrainian tax laws are complex and subject to varying experts and complies with all known requirements.
The Group interpretations, and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and maintains a transparent and open relationship with local, regional national authorities.
Tax authorities can challenge the Groups and national tax authorities.
interpretation and treatment of these laws resulting in increased tax liabilities owed by the Group.
1 Please see pages 16 and 19 for the KPI associated with the Strategic Priorities.
