com CEO Statement I believe strongly that the establishment of Alent as a stand-alone Company will benefit our shareholders, our customers, and our people.
Steve Corbett, Chief Executive OVERVIEW customers problem can often result in substantial R&D sites in Bangalore, India, Alent being the customers preferred and in the USA in New Jersey and Connecticut, I am very pleased to deliver my first trusted source of supply, differentiating in Langenfeld, Germany and also in report as Chief Executive of Alent plc, us from our competitors.
We deliver our Hiratsuka, Japan.
We also have smaller newly created following the demerger of products on a just in time basis from a R&D sites in the UK and the Netherlands.
Cookson Group plc in December 2012. global manufacturing base of 23 facilities In total we have over 170 R&D scientists I believe strongly that the establishment located around the world.
We have longand engineers with more than one third of Alent as a stand-alone company will standing relationships with our customers of these located in Bangalore.
Our R&D benefit our shareholders, our customers and we have a deep understanding of spend in 2012 was c4% of NSV.
The Alent Board and their manufacturing processes and future focus is on the growth areas in which management are now singularly focused material needs.
we are investing: we spend very little on on the Alent business, and free to deploy mature, but cash generative products its capital resources in the best interests KEY STRENGTHS AND CAPABILITIES such as solder bar and wire.
Excluding of the newly formed Group.
This is a cash these, R&D spend is c5% of NSV.
Instead, generative business and we are now able, Alent is a market and technology leader we divert signicantly more resources to as a stand-alone Company, to deploy across its targeted end-market segments.
the development of our higher margin the cash generated to pay dividends, We are innovative with a clear focus on products such as damascene copper, nano invest organically in capital development, customer demands.
Further sustainable silver die attach materials, and our next complementary technologies and R&D, revenue and margin growth will be driven generation solder pastes.
and to begin to consider value adding, by underlying industry megatrends in bolt-on acquisitions.
We look forward electronics, as well as in automotive, Global R&D resources are allocated into to demonstrating the strength of our industrial and emerging applications such three key categories: business and the opportunities we have as LEDs and photovoltaics.
We will also for profitable growth.
Id like to take this build on our already well-established approximately 70% is allocated to { opportunity to thank each and every one footprint in key developing markets such as specic customer-driven, new product of Alents 2,600 people across the globe China, India and Brazil, together with our evolution and development activities.
for a job well done in 2012 and for setting continued efforts to optimise our product The focus here is to ensure that we Alent on a strong foundation for further mix toward higher margin products.
continue to gain share in our current growth and profitability improvement in markets by a continued stream of 2013 and beyond.
We differentiate ourselves from our differentiated, innovative products and competitors by our global copy exact by working very closely with our ALENT manufacturing structure, our fast cycle customers: R&D capabilities, and our OEM marketing Alent is a leading supplier of advanced, and selling strategy.
{ an additional 20% is allocated, through consumable specialty chemicals and new business development, to engineered materials used primarily in RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT R&D expanding and extending our products the electronics, automotive and industrial and services into new but adjacent high end-market segments.
We offer our One of our strategic goals is to excel in growth or emerging markets: and customers customised products that in our targeted markets and to continue to many cases are specically designed to grow our innovative new product pipeline { the remaining 10% is allocated to solve an individual customers production with high-value adding, new market exploring, selecting and nurturing problem, or to enable a customer to build creating technologies.
R&D is therefore emerging breakthrough disruptive its next generation products at acceptable critical to the continued success of Alent technologies that will help to sustain our yields, throughput and reliability.
Our and we have invested signicantly in innovation pipeline for many years to come.
ability to quickly develop solutions for our our facilities around the world.
We have A full denition of non-GAAP measures is outlined on page 87 14 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 NEW PRODUCTS AND MARKETS 500 components on each board.
Each of European automotive and industrial endthese components has multiple solder market demand, adjusted operating profit at Alent supplies a broad range of products joints, such that on a single day we can constant currency increased 3.4% to 97.2m across the electronics, automotive and literally generate millions of individual and adjusted EPS increased 2.1% to 24.6 industrial end-markets.
From these pence per share.
Adjusted cash generated portion of our R&D spend and deployment data points, we can generate accurate from operations was 86.0m 2011: 93.0m of resources is focused on incremental yield and productivity data which is made and represented a cash conversion of 88% of improvements to existing product available to our customers.
We then adjusted operating profit.
platforms, which enable customers take these boards and mechanically and to improve their own manufacturing environmentally stress them in such a OUTLOOK yields and productivity, and enhance way as to be meaningful to the specic both the performance and reliability of Our major global electronics end-markets OEMs end application.
It is these incremental are expected to return to positive year data, along with the assembly yield and improvements that enable our customers on year growth, with more limited growth productivity data, are the backbone of to deliver their next generation products, in global printed circuit board surface our value selling initiative.
In summary, cementing our relationship with them.
This improving market this is much more than a sales pitch, it is We also have an exciting pipeline of new development is likely to be tempered a compelling value proposition that we products that we are launching.
Some of by the continuing macroeconomic have seen deliver real tangible results for these are into new markets such as LED headwinds across the Eurozone, especially our customers.
Alent backs all of this up lighting and solar photovoltaics, and we in the automotive industry.
Alents strong with its global manufacturing footprint, continue to identify new or emerging positions across its selected leading experienced technical service engineers, markets into which our technologies and electronics applications and with its endand copy exact manufacturing protocols.
Some are customers place us in a good position to Large multinational OEMs want assurance significant enhancements, such as our grow NSV and to further improve returns.
that their supply chain can deliver exactly ultra-high performance damascene copper We have begun the year on track and look the same materials wherever in the for enabling next generation technology forward to making further progress over world they choose to have their products nodes, new moulded interconnect devices the course of the year, with our normal manufactured.
for smartphone antennae, as well as new seasonal improvement in the second half.
3D packaging plating chemistries for 3D MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT interconnects, and new semi-conductor die attach products for the power electronics The core Alent management team is a Steve Corbett end market.
While these new products highly experienced group of executives, Chief Executive had a relatively small impact on our results with whom I have worked for many years 28 March 2013 in 2012, we expect these to develop as we grew and developed the business into significant revenue streams over the to the point at which it could have its coming years.
This group has extensive international experience across all of our operations, our markets, and the OEM SALES STRATEGY industries and customers whom we One key operational strategy is our valueserve.
I believe that the management add OEM marketing and selling initiative.
team is well-positioned to lead Alent We show the OEMs the value our products to a successful future as a stand-alone, can bring to them.
We are able to quantify high-growth company.
In addition, I am for them, in monetary terms, how much pleased to welcome David Egan to the they will save if they specify the use of our Alent management team as Finance products to their subcontractors, even Director.
I know that David will bring a though our products may cost more.
We new perspective to Alent and that his show customers the financial benets of contributions will have a positive impact increased production yields, increased on our future performance.
productivity and increased reliability, which we can actually demonstrate.
In our R&D TRADING PERFORMANCE centres in Bangalore and the USA we have Alent delivered a solid set of results for production scale surface mount assembly the year despite challenging economic lines, which are the same scale assembly conditions during 2012.
Whilst NSV was lines that our customers use.
In a single broadly at, both as a result of mix effects day we can assemble more than 1,000 and as a result of weaker electronics and circuit boards.
We can place as many as STOCK CODE: ALNT 15 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE www.
com Business Unit Review ASSEMBLY MATERIALS At reported rates Change at 2012 2011 m m Reported Constant NSV 208.0 214.1 2.8% 2.3% Adjusted operating profit 58.7 53.7 9.3% 9.9% NSV margin 28.2% 25.1% 3.1ppts 2.0ppts Assembly Materials adjusted operating was driven by a number of factors.
These the effects of our continual operational and profit increased by 5.0m 9.3% to 58.7m included higher sales of our higher margin Six Sigma improvement programmes and 2011: 53.7m.
On a constant currency surface mount technology products, higher the continued product mix shift away from basis the increase was 9.9%.
The NSV margin sales in Asia more than offsetting low margin, more commoditised products margin increased 3.1ppts to 28.2% 2011: a small decline in Europe, operational to higher margin products.
The increase in profit and margin gearing on the increased sales overall, and NSV At reported rates Change at 2012 2011 m m Reported Constant Wave solder assembly 57.2 62.8 8.9% 2.7% Surface mount assembly 94.8 91.3 3.8% 8.0% Microelectronics 11.8 12.3 4.1% 5.6% Other 44.2 47.7 7.3% 6.6% Total Assembly Materials 208.0 214.1 2.8% 2.3% Electronics end-markets remained For Assembly Materials, we segment our demand from the smartphone, tablet and relatively weak in 2012.
According to solder product lines between bar solder laptop computer segments from OEMs, as Henderson Ventures, a leading industry used in the more mature wave soldering a result of our ongoing OEM marketing and commentator, worldwide production of technology for assembling printed circuit selling strategy.
In 2012, c30% of our global electronics equipment on a revenue basis boards and which comprises Wave solder solder paste volume was shipped into at constant 2011 exchange rates declined assembly in the table above: and products the supply chain of three market-leading by 1.2% versus 2011.
The bright spots such as the high performance solder OEMs in the smartphone, tablet and laptop that drove Assembly Materials growth paste, wire and preforms that are used as computer market segments based on were smartphones and tablet computers.
the joining medium in the more modern specic product specication by the OEMs.
Global smartphone year-on-year unit surface mount technology for circuit board growth was 37% Prismark with global manufacture, shown as Surface mount Microelectronics includes a range of production of some 650 million units.
In wave solder non-solder products that are sold into the Global 2012 tablet computer volumes assembly, NSV increased 2.7% at constant electronics, LED and photovoltaic markets, were 125 million units, an increase of 95% currency.
We saw, as expected, a continuing including electronic polymers, spheres, and compared with 2011.
Assembly Materials shift away from the older printed circuit die attach materials.
NSV declined 5.6% NSV in the Surface mount assembly board assembly process to the newer at constant currency due to lower solder product line segment, which includes Surface mount assembly process, and this sphere volumes.
solder paste, increased 3.8% year on year is reected in the table above.
Other high overall global bar solder volumes declined The Other category includes our unit volume electronics system segments 12% as compared to 2011, we were still recycling and reclaim operations, our such as standard mobile phones, desk top able to achieve revenue growth, in constant consumer products and water treatment and laptop PCs, LCD TVs, set top boxes currency, in this segment as a result of chemicals businesses.
NSV declined in and digital cameras all experienced no, continued mix shift toward low silver these areas 6.6% at constant currency, or negative unit growth in 2012 versus content alloys and the on-going shift from primarily due to lower sales of commodity 2011.
Automotive electronic systems lead-bearing solders to lead-free alloys.
products in our Fernox water treatment grew globally by 3.7% on a revenue basis chemicals business.
The resulting mix shift Prismark with increases in North America Surface mount assembly products saw an away from commodities improved the and Asia offsetting declines in Europe.
increase in NSV of 8% at constant currency.
quality of earnings in this product We shipped a signicantly higher volume line segment.
of lead-free solder paste, being driven by A full denition of non-GAAP measures is outlined on page 87 16 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 SURFACE CHEMISTRIES Surface Chemistries serves the electronics and the automotive industrial end-markets, with NSV split approximately equally between these two market segments.
At reported rates Change at 2012 2011 m m Reported Constant NSV 208.7 219.2 4.8% 2.7% Adjusted operating profit 46.0 48.2 4.6% 4.4% NSV margin 22.0% 22.0% 0.4 pts Surface Chemistries adjusted operating the NSV margin being at year on year, both automotive and electronics, together profit decreased by 2.2m 4.6% to 46.0m at 22.0%.
The major factor in this decline with the global decline in printed circuit 2011: 48.2m.
On a constant currency was the weaker demand in Europe which board production volumes.
basis the decrease was 4.4%, resulting in accounted for 41% of divisional sales in NSV At reported rates Change at 2012 2011 m m Reported Constant Performance coatings 96.6 99.2 2.6% 1.7% Electronics 100.8 105.3 4.3% 4.4% Other 11.3 14.7 23.1% 20.4% Total Surface Chemistries 208.7 219.2 4.8% 2.7% Performance coatings are specialty ASICs, wafer bumping chemistries The smaller product group, Other electroplating chemicals sold into nonfor the semiconductor market, and includes equipment sales where we sell electronics end-markets which are used printed circuit fabrication chemicals and electroplating equipment to our customers to provide either corrosion protection, interconnect materials serving a broad typically alongside a multi-year contract for or wear protection, or to provide a high range of electronics applications.
The us to provide the associated electroplating quality decorative nish to either metal overall worldwide circuit board market chemicals, and small amounts of nonor plastic substrates.
In the automotive contracted by some 6% Prismark in proprietary products sourced from third and industrial end-markets, the severe 2012 as measured in millions of square parties and resold to customers.
NSV market headwinds in Europe resulted in metres of circuit boards produced.
As a decreased 2.9m on a constant currency signicantly reduced volume demand from result, our printed circuit board chemistry basis due to a reduction in equipment customers in that region.
Western Europe volumes sold into this market were down sales and sales of commodities.
The global semiconductor market, source: LMC Automotive in light vehicle in terms of silicon area excluding solar Our new, world class manufacturing and production in 2012 with manufacturers saw a decline in 2012 of 1.1% Henderson.
technical centre under construction in in Southern Europe hit particularly hard.
Our damascene copper business was, in Shanghai is progressing well with handHowever, stronger demand in the North total, generally at in comparison to the over expected at the end of the first half American and Asian automotive markets prior year as some customers struggled of 2013. more than compensated for the decline to ramp the new, higher specication in Europe and, as a result, Surface 28nm technology node and this delayed Chemistries Performance coatings NSV expected qualications.
However, even was up 1.7% versus the prior year on a within our damascene copper product line, constant currency basis.
we experienced a mix shift in 2012 away from the more commoditised electrolyte Products sold into electronics endbusiness toward the higher margin markets include copper damascene, additives.
Damascene copper additives providing the copper wiring in the increased 9% year on year.
leading edge semiconductor applications such as microprocessors, logic and STOCK CODE: ALNT 17 OUR PERFORMANCE
