18 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Q&A with the Chief Executive What experience does Mr Alvdrez bring with himtoFresnillo?
Mr Alvdrez brings extensive industry Mr Alvdrez Chief Executive officer experience to the position.
He joined Peoles in 1988 and has held senior operational and executive positions across Peoles and Fresnillo, including in metals purchasing, treasury and finance.
He most recently served as General Manager of Peoless Madero mine, oneof Mexicos largest zinc mines.
MrAlvdrez holds a degree in Mining Engineering from the Universidad fide Guanajuato Mexico andan MBA fromthe Wharton School ofthe University of Pennsylvania USA.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 19 Looking at operating performance in 2012, Octavio Alvdrez was appointed CEO of Fresnillo plc in Q: whatstands out for you?
August 2012, taking the reins from Jaime Lomeln who Once again, I will start with our people.
We shouldnt take ledthe Company since its IPO in 2008 and served as A A A A:pridein a safety record that shows an improving fatality rate.
ChiefExecutive of Peoles for the 21 years prior.
Zero tolerance is zero tolerance, and no fatality is ever acceptable.
Yes, we are doing a lot to move the needle forward on safety in He begins his tenure as CEO near the midpoint of the general, but regarding this specic issue I am not patient.
Companys ambitious ten-year targets set for 2018, From a production standpoint, obviously record gold production overseeing a far-reaching exploration programme, stands out, which largely reects the start-up of our new Noche amulti-year project delivery schedule and a growing Buena mine.
In no small measure, however, we also benefited from portfolio of operating mines, as well as implementation the contribution of higher ore grades at Saucito and higher volumes ofthe 20122016 HSECR Action Plan.
ofore processed at Cinega, San Ramn and Saucito.
I emphasise this because it underscores our strategy of maximising current operations.
In the following interview, Octavio Alvdrez reects on hisrole, discusses 2012 performance, and outlines the Attributable gold production Koz Groupsstrategic priorities.
This interview, as well as thefullStrategic Review and Performance sections 2012 2011 onpages 24-55 and 57-107, correspond to our fourth Communication on Progress assignatory of the United 448.9 Nations Global Compact.
What might stakeholders expect from you Q: as the CEO?
How will your leadership differ from that of your predecessor?
Second, I would say that our performance in silver was noteworthy I am keenly aware of stepping into the shoes of such a given the expected decline in ore grades at Fresnillo.
The extent to A A A A:well-respected leader in our industry.
Mr Lomeln was a which we were able to keep total production stable in the year reects mentorto me and many other mining professionals in Mexico.
He was greater throughput at that mine as well as higher ore grades at San able to combine technical expertise with a broader view of the industry Ramn and the ramp-up of Saucito.
Fresnillo will remain our key silver landscape, and I certainly hope to follow in his footsteps in that regard.
producing mine for some time and indeed it is still the worlds largest primary silver mine but we are reaching an inection point where we As for strategy, to be frank, our stakeholders can expect a great degree must look for growth in silver production elsewhere in the portfolio, of continuity.
We are committed to the 2018 goal of producing 65 million and invest accordingly.
I should also note that in 2012 we benefited ounces of silver per year and 500,000 ounces of gold, and doing so from an increase in silver ounces accrued under the Silverstream profitably and sustainably.
The vision weve had from the time of the Contract with Peoles.
IPO to maintain our position as the worlds leading silver miner and atop Mexican producer of gold wont change under my leadership.
Third, I would highlight the rate at which we successfully converted resources into reserves.
This is one of the strongest indicators of That being said, management styles obviously differ, and I will have my future production, and I am pleased to note the 23.6% and 19.6% own take on how we execute and prioritise shorter term objectives, increase in proven and probable silver and gold reserves, respectively.
how I work with my colleagues, the culture we foster and expectations we set for ourselves.
Yet the Companys financial performance couldnt Q: keep pace with previous years growth.
Are you What were your initial priorities when concerned about volatility in precious metal prices?
To say that we disregard metal prices would be inaccurate, This may sound trite, but I believe people truly are our most A A A A:butin reality, because price movements affect everyone in A A A A:important asset.
I knew the Company well from my previous thisindustry, we must focus on what we can control namely costs, management roles, but I wanted to take the time to listen and speak productivity and having safe and sustainable operations.
To the extent with our people at every operating mine and development site, we look at market factors, it is to ensure that we extract the most aswellas with our exploration team, union leaders and key suppliers.
economically viable material at any given time.
We are fortunate in Their insights into the day-to-day operations are extremely valuable, that we are positioned to withstand a fair amount of volatility and still and I wanted that perspective as part of my comprehensive review generate healthy cash ow and EBITDA.
This is because of our low ofmine plans, development projects and exploration programmes.
embedded cash costs and conservative financial structure.
What I walked away with was a deep appreciation for the team we have in place the calibre, commitment and professionalism of our workforce is truly impressive.
Without a doubt, my number one priority must be safeguarding our people.
20 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Q&A with the Chief Executive continued You are strengthening in gold, does this spell 2012 was the first year rolling out the HSECR Action Q: achangein strategy for silver?
Has the implementation gone according to plan?
It is understandable to think that might be the case looking at Yes, we have hit the right milestones for year one.
Following A A A A:the past year or two.
Indeed, the remarkable growth in gold A A A A:the assessment PwC conducted of our HSECR system in 2011, production, dovetailing as it did with record prices, nicely mitigated the were taking an approach to sustainability that looks at systems, natural decline in silver ore grades at our Fresnillo mine.
And we also processes and data holistically, and are now working to ensure that have a number of exciting gold projects coming on stream.
But the reality is that our strategy has not changed.
If you look at our One area that garnered particular attention in our industry this year, ten-year plan and 2018 targets, gold production is slated to rise from and rightfully so, was employee and community relations following todays level of around 470 thousand ounces to 500 thousand ounces, thetragic events in South Africa.
Our own policy has always been to whereas silver growth will be exponentially greater, increasing from collaborate with communities and secure their engagement at the around 40 million ounces to 65 million ounces.
We will still be a silver earliest stages of exploration, and we continue to enjoy effective company at heart, but one with an impressive prole in gold.
Notwithstanding, the Group tookthe step in 2012 of incorporating public perception of mining activity as a potential risk that must be monitored and mitigated.
So what keeps you up at night?
Q: In terms of the HSECR Action Plan, in 2012 we formally adopted a Sustainable Development Policy and put in place leadership teams I will say it again: safety.
It is so fundamental to our license ateach business unit.
We established prevention and performance A A A A:tooperate.
Changing ore grades, uctuating input prices, indicators and developed criteria and guidelines governing institutional equipment requirements, all those are the operational realities of programmes and how budgets are shaped to incorporate HSECR mining, and our Company has proved exceptionally capable of thriving issues.
We are now putting in place the tools to validate our across metal cycles.
I am confident we can continue to execute and monitoring and reporting systems.
Where we aim to make further progress is in the process already Wont all that be challenging in the context of underway, namely taking our Health, Safety, Environment and Q: bringingon major projects in the next five years?
Community Relations framework and embedding the culture and systems of safety and sustainability throughout the organisation.
On the contrary, these systemic enhancements will in Thisin complete alignment with the Boards direction and the values A A A A:factsupport the ambitious growth plan weve laid out, our Company holds dear.
whichnearly doubles our operating assets in the next few years.
Having a rigorous operating framework with embedded sustainability measuresis extremely beneficial.
We have already trained and equipped the team that is set to operate the dynamic leaching plant coming online before the end of 2013, andwe started construction on the San Julin development project afew months ago.
Engineering work is currently being conducted atSaucito II, and Juanicipio, and conceptual engineering at Orisyvo.
Soyes, theres a lot on our plate but we have the people, resources and now systems to accomplish great things.
Advancing towards our 2018 targets Production 2008 Silver 2012 2018 37.8 Gold 2012 2018 263.6 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 21 The exploration programme continues to expand As you saw in 2012, we are not necessarily doing this all on our own.
What challenges and The association agreement we signed with Orex Minerals of Canada opportunities do you anticipate with that?
has us exploring and developing our adjacent mineral concessions inConeto, Durango as one large project.
We have very strict and consistent criteria when it comes to A A A A:exploration, in terms of tonnage, ore grade and production The challenges in Peru are more of distance, but there too we work costs.
District consolidation in the form of proximate mining toconsolidate our land position.
We have had a team there for some concessions makes a lot of sense because we can leverage time, investing in the critical work of community engagement and .
But we must also continue to extend our stakeholder outreach whilst exploring some interesting prospects.
resource base, using the same strict criteria of course, as we This year, for example, we saw some exciting preliminary results havedone at San Julin.
Our exploration programme, to which atthePilarica silver project.
US$318.9 million was allocated in 2012, is focused on areas with proven geological potential that may become new districts for us.
For the shorter term, what are your priorities for 2013?
Q: Are there specic milestones you are targeting?
Within the context of our broader strategy and path to 2018 Exploration expenditure across the value chain A A A A:targets, we will be looking at the safety programme and full HSECR framework, along with cost cutting and efficiency initiatives Investment at current mines helps replenish reserves toensure were aligned with market realities such as the expected and explore areas of inuence: at development project ination in operating materials even as our mine development we convert resources into reserves and expand the total programme will require additional stripping and longer haulage resource base: prospecting and drilling at early stage distances.
In terms of production we expect to keep attributable silverproduction stable at around 41 million ounces, and grow gold prospects andprojects feeds our growth pipeline.
Investment in exploration programme US$m As for development and growth, we will commission the new dynamic leaching plant before year-end and start construction of the processing 2012 US$m 2011 US$m plant at San Julin.
The Saucito expansion, which we have been calling Saucito II because of its impressive resource prole, has just received Board approval and construction will start in the second half of the 318.9 179.0 year.
We will also look at the potential expansion of the main pit at Herradura, known as the Mega Centauro project, and evaluate an 78.
1% integrated plan for growth across the Fresnillo District that may include new processing capacity at the Fresnillo mine along with increased development in the mines western zone, as well as a 1 Operate pyrites plant at Saucito to process tailings from both Fresnillo and $85.6m 26.8% Saucito.
Lastly, we intend to utilise our healthy cash ow to continue investing in exploration, with a budget of US$279.6 million allocated toour effort to continue expanding our resource base.
com Q&A with the Chief Executive continued What we said we would do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Improve our safety culture and systems at all levels We undertook extensive efforts in safety and made measurable progress in some key indicators: albeit there Ramp up production at Saucito to 6.5 million ounces of silver were an unacceptable six fatalities in the year Commission Noche Buena Saucito produced 7.0 million ounces of silver in 2012 Continue construction of the dynamic leaching plant at Noche Buena was commissioned on time and in line Herradura originally for 1H 2013 start-up withbudget Complete construction of the Jarillas shaft at Saucito We relocated the future site of the dynamic leaching plant Conclude engineering for the expansion of the beneficiation toaccommodate a potential future expansion of the plant at Fresnillo to 10,000 tpd Centauro pit: construction advanced 55% in the year andplant start-up is now expected in late 2013 Conclude pre-feasibility study at San Julin and initiate construction The Jarillas shaft neared completion at year-end, withcommissioning expected in March 2013 Initiate pre-feasibility study at Las Casas Whilst significant work was done towards the potential define mining method and metallurgy at Orisyvo expansion of the Fresnillo mine, it was deferred to ensure Continue development ramps at Centauro Deep that any additional processing capacity benefit all operations within the District Conclude pre-feasibility at Juanicipio in 1Q 2012 and define course of action The San Julin feasibility study was approved at year-end: construction for the new mine began immediately thereafter Expand our resource base to help support long-term targets: US$360.4 million budgeted for risk capital To prepare for the pre-feasibility study at Las Casas, an investment in exploration intensive exploration programme was carried out along with mine works, which resulted in 21 million tonnes of resources At Orisyvo, ongoing testing of the ore body as the level of resource increases will determine the most cost effective extraction and processing methodology.
The new adit confirmed continuous good gold grades along 400 metres Mine work at Centauro Deep reached 6,556 metres in 2012 and construction of a pumping station began in the last quarter of the year Based on the recommendations of the Juanicipio pre-feasibility study, which showed positive results supporting a stand-alone mining and processing operation, inll drilling continues to upgrade resource quality along the Valdecaas vein The Mega Centauro expansion project identied 3.6 million ounces of measured, indicated and inferred gold contents We invested US$318.9 million of the US$360.4 million budgeted in exploration, and grew our total silver and gold resources by 12.2% and 15.0%, respectively Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 23 What we plan to do in 2013 Improve safety performance and meet our zero fatalities target Attributable silver production to remain stable at 41 million ounces, including Silverstream Attributable gold production to reach 490,000 ounces Exploration budget of US$279.6 million including capitalised exploration expenses will focus on key projects, 12.3% below the US$318.9 million spent in 2012 Commission the dynamic leaching plant at Herradura in 4Q 2013 Conclude construction of the pumping station at Centauro Deep: continue exploration activities to increase the resource base Conclude detailed engineering at San Julin and continue construction of the processing plant: start-up expected in 2H 2014 Submit the Saucito II silver project for Board approval in 1Q 2013: begin construction in 2H 2013 Evaluate the expansion of the main pit at Herradura Mega Centauro and an integrated growth plan in the Fresnillo District that would potentially include a 2,000 tpd extension to the current facility at Fresnillo, increaseddevelopment of the mines western zone to feed the new mill, and a pyrites plant at Saucito to processtailingsfrom Fresnillo and Saucito Cost control initiatives to mitigate the expected ination in operating materials, increased stripping ratios and longer haulage distances
