Strategic review Chief Executives interview Looking forward with confidence How would you sum up the groups trading for 2012?
Despite continued economic challenges in Europe, the In 2012, we achieved our eighth consecutive overall business has performed well with an acceleration year of underlying revenue, PBITA and dividend in organic growth to 6.9% from 5.1% in 2011. growth.
This demonstrates that, despite ongoing Group revenues were up by 8.1% on the prior year and economic uncertainty in 2012 and the challenges the key highlights of the year were the strong growth in the UK government and US commercial businesses of delivering the London 2012 security contract, and the continued strong performance in developing the underlying business has performed well and markets.
Our developing markets activities achieved organic growth of 10% and they now make up 33% of the the positive trading momentum is expected group'srevenue.
Despite the economic challenges of low GDP growth and the impact of low interest rates in developed markets We are confident in the future and expect on our cash solutions business, we managed to maintain to continue our track record of growth whilst margins overall through continuing to focus on keeping costs under control and cash ow generation.
maintaining our discipline on margins and cash generation.
What were the main highlights of the year?
There were a number of significant highlights during 2012, which either contributed to our performance in the year or laid the foundations for future growth and success.
Overall, we have performed strongly with organic growth of nearly 7% against a difficult trading environment and the distractions of the Olympics contract in the summer.
We worked hard to implement substantial cost savings during the first half of the year, signicantly reducing our overhead costs to help counter the current margin headwinds, particularly in Europe, resulting in us maintaining our margins at 7.1%.
Despite significant economic challenges, our US Commercial business grew particularly strongly in 2012, as a result of a rm focus on customer service and retention, the expansion of a number of existing contracts and a number of new business wins such as Google, Gallagher Bassett and Iberdola.
Overall the US commercial business grew by 11% in the year.
08 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information One of the key achievements during the year was the What were the biggest challenges of mobilisation of a number of major contracts in the the year and how did they impact UK.
We began the facilities management of more than 340 court buildings across the Midlands, Wales and the groups performance?
the North of England in February this year on behalf of the UK Ministry of Justice.
We opened Oakwood The most significant challenge of 2012 was handling the Prison, one of the largest in the UK, providing places issues associated with our failure to provide the contracted for over 1,600 prisoners in the West Midlands during number of security personnel for the Olympic Games.
April, and commenced the provision of transport and The Games was a huge success for Britain and as a British accommodation for asylum applicants across four regions company which has been an important part of British of the UK in June.
In April, we also successfully mobilised society for over 75 years, we wanted to play our part in the first major support services contract with Lincolnshire delivering a great Games for Britain.
Police Authority where we provide a wide variety of back office functions to allow the force to concentrate more The realisation as the Games approached, that the resources on front line policing services reducing the workforce numbers we believed to be in place would not Police Authority running costs by around 16% in the first materialise, was a big shock for us all and was the start of nine months of the contract.
one of the toughest periods in the groups history.
Our developing markets businesses performed well On the plus side, I was impressed with the way that in the year and we continue to focus on developing colleagues across the group from both the UK and markets for future growth.
We expanded our presence overseas stepped in to help resolve the issues as in the high growth Brazilian market in the second half soon as they came to light.
This meant that, in the end, of 2012 through the acquisition of Vanguarda, one of we were able to recruit around 16,000 security staff the countrys leading security providers, to complement and around 8,000 of them worked at the Games on the acquisition of Interativa which was completed late the peak day.
Overall we delivered around 82% of the in 2011.
These acquisitions provide us with an excellent contracted requirement and all of the security workforce platform for growth in one of the worlds leading requirements for the transition period between economies and help to strengthen our service offering the Olympics and Paralympics and throughout the and capabilities across the region to include security, ParalympicGames.
Reputationally, the group faced extreme scrutiny, We have made excellent progress during the year in particularly from politicians and the media, which took establishing our product-specic service excellence anenormous amount of effort and resource to manage.
centres which are focused on ensuring long-term The detailed financial implications are highlighted operational efficiency, high quality service standards, elsewhere in this report, but the overall impact was that the development of technology to support service rather than making a modest profit on the contract, we delivery and the sharing of best practice across our will make a loss on the contract of 70m having agreed main service lines.
These service excellence centres to refund a significant proportion of the management have already had a significant impact on the businesses fee as a gesture of goodwill to the UK Government through reduction in attack losses in the cash solutions animportant customer for the group.
We also incurred business and assisted nine countries in identifying profit additional costs of 11m relating to external fees and a .
further 7m in sponsorship and marketing costs.
This all equates to a total loss of 88m.
It is also important to recognise the efforts of our managers and finance teams in terms of keeping the Whilst the overall situation was extremely disappointing focus on generating cash throughout the year, particularly for us, I am proud of the way our staff worked together against a difficult economic environment where customers with the military and police to ensure that the Games have been looking to extend payment terms and hang was safe and secure.
Having reached agreement on the on to their cash for as long as possible.
Delivering 95% of settlement, we hope that in 2013 we can put the issue PBITA as cash in 2012 was a significant achievement.
behind us and continue to demonstrate that G4S is a great company which plays an important role in societies all over the world through the efforts of our over 620,000 loyal and dedicated employees.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09 Strategic review Chief Executives interview continued In November, we were faced with what seemed like service and delivery.
Recruitment for this role is well a significant change of policy by the UK Government underway and we hope to announce an appointment when the Ministry of Justice announced that it would during the first half of this year.
not outsource a number of prisons to the private sector and would be taking an existing outsourced prison back Elsewhere, we have continued to focus on keeping under the control of the Prison Service.
Whilst this was costs down and reviewing our overhead structures and disappointing to us and to the market at the time, there resources to make sure we are in good shape to weather does appear to be some positive news as a result of the the ongoing economic storm.
developing UK prison policy, which will include a substantial amount of outsourcing of services such as rehabilitation, What are the key elements of the facilities management and other related services.
We are strategy for 2013 and the future?
in a good position to bid for these contracts which are estimated to be worth around 1bn per annum.
There is no change to the group strategy for 2013 2012 was a challenging year for our US Government security is at the core of our offer and, although we may Solutions business as a result of a significant reduction move into related services in specic markets should in the US Federal Government spending in both the US opportunities take us there, we will remain true to our domestic government sector and in contracts for overseas security heritage.
We introduced a number of costsaving measures during the year to mitigate the challenges We will continue to focus on developing long-term in this market and have recently announced our intention relationships with businesses and governments in to divest the business to a parent which would be able countries and sectors where security and safety risks to add or create more value than we are able to, being are considered a strategic threat and where we can help a foreign parent with limited control over the business customers achieve their own strategic objectives.
strategy and restricted access to important commercial data and limited ability to manage the business and share With limited medium-term opportunities for growth best practice.
in Continental Europe, we will continue to look to developing markets for enhanced growth opportunities Elsewhere, trading conditions, particularly in Continental and to build on our market-leading positions in many of Europe continued to be tough with increasing margin these markets.
We will aim to export the knowledge and pressure on contract renewals across many developed expertise which we have in more developed markets to markets.
Early in 2012 we began our programme of these higher growth regions.
overhead cost saving measures which have helped to protect our margins in the latter half of the year and should provide a We will drive secure solutions and cash solutions markets good basis on which to move forward in 2013. through the various phases of development to encourage greater outsourcing and focus our attention on larger, more complex bids for new business.
We will also focus What lessons have you learned on effectively managing any risks associated with these during the year and what will you do contracts by implementing enhanced contract risk differently in the future as a result?
We will maintain our focus on service excellence, We commissioned a thorough review of our performance on retaining and growing our business with existing on the London 2012 Olympic security contract with the customers and winning new business across a wide range assistance of PwC and the findings were published in of markets and sectors.
Our sector-focused strategy in September 2012.
The review concluded that the failures areas where security and safety are of vital importance is were specic to the very special nature of the contract, but a key differentiator for us and it has proved successful in we decided to take a number of actions to ensure that best the last 12 months.
We will continue to focus our skills in practices are applied consistently across the entire group.
enhanced risk management and safety and security in key sectors such as ports and maritime, aviation, oil and gas, With that in mind, we are implementing a more rigorous andminingindustries.
risk assessment for new contracts and improving contract take-on processes and project management.
Board We are constantly looking to develop and refresh our oversight of new contracts is also being enhanced including talent pipeline and we will continue to do this in the review and approval of large or complex contracts.
coming year through the development of our people to build their skills, knowledge and behaviours and to We are also strengthening the Group Executive team ensure that we have robust succession plans in place for with the appointment of a chief operating officer, whose the key roles across the group.
responsibilities will include a specic focus on operational procedures, risk management and quality of customer 10 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We are aiming to increase the proportion of our revenues How do mergers and acquisitions t generated in developing markets with a six-year target into your future strategy?
of 50% of the group total as key security markets such as Brazil and China open up to foreign investment and where we can import our expertise from more developed Acquisitions continue to be an important part of the strategy, particularly in developing markets where we can markets in order to raise standards, deliver operational best practice and help our customers to achieve their own either improve our market share or where an acquisition can act as a catalyst to drive outsourcing opportunities.
Overall, we expect to spend around 200m on acquisitions each year.
We will maintain our discipline on margins through good cost control and sharing of operational best practice as We believe there are substantial growth opportunities in the service excellence centres continue to gain further traction across the operation and as we keep the cost these markets and we are targeting 50% of our revenues to come from developing markets by 2019. base under constant review.
We will also continue to be more active in terms of We will aim to upgrade our approach to contract risk management through the development of new processes divestments where a service line is not core to the group, where a business could result in material reputational for monitoring major contracts and increasing board and senior management visibility of contract issues.
damage to the group or it is unable to reach the group minimum targets within a set period of time under our Theaddition of a new chief operating officer to the Group Executive team will be a key element of this focus.
ownership or where an alternative parent could add or derive more value from a business.
We are targeting strong EPS growth and believe we can deliver that as a result of structural growth trends in What targets or goals are you the security industry and outsourcing trends, our strong setting for2013?
developing markets presence and continued focus on margins and cash generation and are maintaining our overall target of generating at least 85% of PBITA as cash Overall, our key business objectives for 2013 are to drive during the year.
organic growth, deliver margin improvement, optimise our organisational development and to build and protect our reputation.
How would you summarise the outlook for the group?
Key Business Objectives: Despite the disappointment of the Olympics contract in 2012, the underlying trading across the majority of Drive Deliver the group remains strong.
The economic pressure is continuing to be challenging in Continental Europe.
organic margin However, I am confident about the prospects for the growth improvement group in 2013 based on our market leading businesses, broad customer base and contract pipeline.
We continue to see good opportunities from outsourcing in key sectors such as government, financial institutions, aviation, oil and gas, mining and ports.
The breadth of our portfolio Optimise Build and in over 125 countries continues to present many new organisational protect growth opportunities.
development reputation Nick Buckles Chief executive officer Find out more on pages 21 to 29 More specically, we will focus on continuing to improve our organic growth performance through customer service, contract retention and expansion and through winning new business in key target areas.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
