0O Chief Executives review Our strategy of being leaders in our chosen markets, with the broadest global footprint, best technology and a sustained level of operational excellence, has positioned us well to take advantage of the continued growth in our large, global markets.
Our position as a key supplier to the aerospace sector was further enhanced by the acquisition of Volvo Aero, on 1 October 2012.
A strong platform This business, now renamed GKN Aerospace Engine Systems, brings technology and engineering that complements GKNs greater operational expertise, creating a strong force in the market, for the future augmenting our position as a leading Tier 1 aerostructures supplier.
The reaction to the acquisition from customers and employees has been very positive and integration is proceeding well.
Although the Groups 2012 results have been negatively impacted by some one-time costs and charges associated with the 2012 was a good year for GKN.
We showed strong growth in sales, acquisition, we expect to see Engine Systems make a good improved trading margins and a 19% rise in profit before tax.
All contribution to Group profits in 2013. four businesses reported record profits reflecting not only the effectiveness of our strategy, but the hard work of the GKN team In GKN, our drive for operational excellence extends beyond just around the world to deliver it.
I thank them for their efforts.
A major focus of the year was driving further improvement in Group health and safety performance by rolling The growth in Group sales came both from good organic growth out our thinkSAFE!
programme to all locations in the Group.
It was in all divisions, at rates ahead of their respective markets, and pleasing to see the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR the successful integration of the acquisitions made in the second improving, although a fatal injury to a subcontractor at one of our half of 2011, Stromag and Getrag Driveline Products.
These both sites in China reminds us that there is still more to do.
performed well and helped take Group sales in total to 6.9 billion.
GKN Lean manufacturing was also an area of focus in 2012, and But equally encouraging is the strong platform we have built for improved customer lead times and increased stock turns came GKNs future.
Our strategy of being leaders in our chosen markets, from the many value stream activities implemented in the year.
with the broadest global footprint, best technology and a sustained level of operational excellence, has positioned us well Technology was a third area I highlighted as a priority last year to take advantage of the continued growth in our large, global and, as outlined in this report, GKN continues to introduce new markets.
The GKN brand name is not always widely known to end technology that helps customers meet their challenges.
Whether it consumers, but as a Tier 1 supplier to the worlds leading vehicle, is electro-mechanical disconnects for AWD, advanced powder aircraft and machinery manufacturers, GKN products drive metallurgy components, high performance composite structures millions of the worlds cars, help most of the worlds aircraft to fly or innovative clutches, we are differentiating ourselves from and power vital off-road and industrial machinery.
GKN engineering competitors and helping our customers reduce weight, improve can indeed be said to Move the world.
fuel efficiency and electrify their products.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
0P GKN Aerospace remains a priority, although GKN Powder Markets and divisional performance Metallurgy will also be considered as it is now performing well Global automotive markets in the year were mixed, with and there are several interesting technological advances strong growth in North and South America, steady growth in taking place in that sector.
China and some weakness in Europe.
However, within Europe, premium car production, largely in Germany and the UK, The Groups balance sheet remains strong and we continue remained robust, helped by strong demand from export to target returning to investment grade rating with all three markets, in particular China.
Overall global vehicle production rating agencies.
Having funded the previous two acquisitions grew by 6% to 81.5 million units, with GKN Driveline and GKN entirely with debt, to fund the Volvo Aero acquisition we Powder Metallurgy both increasing their sales.
raised 140 million of equity through a share placing, GKN Driveline trading profit increased by 40 million, of receiving very strong support from our shareholders for which around half came from the full year effects of the Getrag which I thank them.
There was also a very high subscription acquisition and half from organic growth.
In GKN Powder level for our 450 million 2022 bond issued in September.
Metallurgy, there was a 15 million increase in profits, and its With our long term financing in place, we have an excellent trading margin reached double-digits.
Aerospace markets also showed a mixed picture.
Civil aircraft Whilst todays low interest rates are a help in the bond demand was strong with both Airbus and Boeing increasing market, the corresponding discount rates are a burden to their production rates as well as increasing their backlog.
GKN is no exception in this In contrast, military demand softened as US defence respect.
The Group currently pays in the UK, US and Europe expenditure began to be impacted by budget constraints.
GKN some 60 million by way of legacy pension payments into Aerospace now derives more than 60% of its business from underfunded, or unfunded schemes.
Whilst the options for the civil aircraft market and this percentage will rise to more fide-risking or buying out these schemes are kept under than 70% with a full year contribution from Volvo Aero, constant scrutiny, it remains our view that better returns for leaving us well placed to benefit from the strong civil demand.
shareholders funds can be earned by investing in our own In 2012 GKN Aerospaces sales increased by 20%, due to businesses.
increased output of A330, A320 and B787 aircraft, offsetting GKN is a global company yet all our people are bound by a a decline of 2% in our military sales.
shared set of values and common ways of working the GKN Way.
These values may be seen in a variety of ways, from GKN Aerospace showed good organic growth, with trading involvement in improving our workplaces to activity in the profit up 4 million.
Margin was maintained at 11.2% communities in which we operate.
In closing this report, excluding the quarter four impact of Volvo Aero.
I would like to record my thanks to all the GKN people who For GKN Land Systems, agricultural markets remained steady have worked so hard and so effectively to bring 2012 to a whilst construction markets declined and industrial markets successful conclusion.
I know that together we will be working were depressed during the year.
Construction demand was to do even better in 2013. particularly impacted by cutbacks in China, whilst the industrial decline was largely seen in Europe, still the largest geographic market for our GKN Land Systems business.
Outlook Trading profit in GKN Land Systems showed a good Overall, the Groups broad exposure to global markets, strong improvement, rising 21 million on sales that were only customer positions and healthy order books mean that GKN slightly higher than in 2011. should make good progress in 2013, benefiting from the full Overall Group sales and trading profit showed an encouraging year contribution from Volvo Aero.
increase with Group sales up 792 million, 13% over 2011, and Group trading profit up 89 million, representing a 19% increase over 2011 14% excluding the 19 million one-off impact on 2011 of Gallatin.
Building the future Nigel Stein The benefits of our strategic positioning are now being seen.
Chief Executive Good organic growth over the last few years has, in the past 18 months, been supplemented by three acquisitions Stromag, Getrag Driveline Products and Volvo Aero.
On a full year pro-forma basis, this would take the Group sales to approximately 7.4 billion and nearly double that of only six years ago.
In setting out our strategy last year, I referred to the need to take a balanced approach between growth, margins and Return on Invested Capital ROIC.
Whilst our short term focus will be on generating cash, paying down debt and driving our ROIC up to the 20% pre-tax long-term goal, we still see All sales and trading profit figures in this statement are presented on a opportunities for further development in all our businesses.
