2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 3 CEOs review We have diversied our sources of growth, our R&D productivity has signicantly improved and our processes are simpler and more efficient.
We are confident that our strategy is delivering Five years ago we set out a strategy to The clear adverse impact to our re-shape GSK to increase growth, reduce performance in 2012 was weaker than risk and improve our long-term financial expected sales from our European performance.
We have made good business, down 7%.
Here, government progress and 2012 provided further austerity measures adversely impacted evidence of this.
growth by approximately 6 percentage points during the year.
However, there is no doubt that we are operating in a very challenging R&D productivity provides environment and in 2012 this was platform for growth particularly evident in Europe.
Despite this, we were able to maintain core In R&D, the Group made significant earnings per share CER, generate net progress in 2012.
We now have six key cash inows from operating activities of new products under regulatory review 7 billion before legal settlements and and expect Phase III data on 14 assets return over 6.3 billion to shareholders.
In total, over the next We also made outstanding progress in three years, GSK has the potential to research and development during the launch around 15 new medicines and year to advance potential new medicines vaccines globally.
across multiple disease areas including We are also confident that we can respiratory, oncology, diabetes and HIV.
sustain this level of productivity and that we can deliver our long-term goal Investment in growth markets of improving returns on R&D investment to around 14%.
Although reported sales for the year were down 1% CER, sales were at Simplifying and changing adjusting for the disposal of our noncore Consumer Healthcare brands.
This our business reects continued strong performance We continue to make changes to simplify from our growth businesses, helping our operating model.
Our Operational to offset pressure in Western markets.
Excellence programme has now delivered In emerging markets, the benets of annual savings of 2.5 billion and investments made to increase our remains on track to hit the target we set exposure in Pharmaceuticals and of 2.8 billion of annual savings by 2014.
Vaccines, as well as Consumer Healthcare, In February 2013 we announced a new were very evident.
Total sales in emerging major change programme, which we markets now account for 26% of our expect to produce incremental annual business and grew 10% during the cost savings of at least 1 billion by 2016. year.
At a divisional level, Consumer This programme will include a series of Healthcare sales were at, but grew 5%, technological advances and opportunities excluding divested OTC products.
to eliminate complexity, which we In Pharmaceutical and Vaccines, Japans believe can transform our long-term cost sales fell 6%, reecting the impact of the competitiveness in both manufacturing Cervarix vaccine sales for the catch up and R&D.
The programme will help us programme in the prior year.
Excluding simplify our supply chain processes, Cervarix, sales grew 5%.
Sales in the USA shorten cycle times, lower inventory were down 2%: this was an improvement levels and reduce our carbon footprint.
We have been re-shaping our US business to reect changing market dynamics and to prepare for the launch of multiple new products.
We continue to view the USA and Japan very positively, as markets that reward and are willing to pay for healthcare innovation.
4 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review In addition, given the sustained shift Outside Consumer Healthcare, we As the Chairman notes in his review, we have witnessed in the European continue to strengthen our core business in July we also settled multiple reimbursement and pricing environment, through acquisitions and equity investigations with the US Government we plan to initiate further restructuring of investments.
In 2012 we completed and states, primarily relating to historical our European pharmaceuticals business three significant transactions with sales and marketing practices.
These to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and Human Genome Sciences, Shionogi and matters originated in a different era reallocate resources to support identied Theravance to increase our share of the for the company, but we continue to growth opportunities in these markets.
economics on key future growth assets.
take action at all levels to improve our We are also evaluating further strategic At the same time, we delivered targeted procedures for compliance, marketing options to ensure we are able to maximise divestments at the periphery of the and selling and embed a values-based the value of our current and future Group to realise value for shareholders, culture in GSK.
divesting Vesicare, multiple non-core OTC brands and Australian pharmaceutical Outlook This additional restructuring supports tail products.
our strategy to change the shape of our GSKs globally diversied sales base and business and deliver sustainable longimproved R&D output provide a clear Operating with responsibility term growth.
In the short term, it will platform for growth, with 2013 marking also help to offset some of the pressure We remain committed to operating the start of what should be a series of we are seeing on our margin structure responsibly and during the year we made growth years for the Group.
resulting from changes in our business further advances on our agenda to ensure Specically we expect to deliver core EPS mix.
We remain confident that as our our behaviour and actions meet or exceed growth of 3-4% CER and sales growth pipeline begins to contribute from the the expectations of society.
of around 1% CER during the year.
end of 2013, we can drive improvement For example, we have taken several steps We also expect to deliver further strong in the core operating margin over the to increase transparency of our clinical cash generation in 2013 and remain medium term.
We already publish all our trial committed to using free cash ow to results whether positive or negative.
support increasing dividends, share Strengthening our core We have now committed to go further repurchases or, where returns are more business and enable independent researchers to attractive, bolt-on acquisitions.
access the very detailed data that lies Our Consumer Healthcare business In closing, I would like to thank all behind these results.
By being more continues to make excellent progress as our employees, partners and suppliers open, we hope to help further scientific we increase focus around a core portfolio for their continued commitment and understanding and research.
of healthcare brands and emerging support.
We are more confident than markets, where we are seeing very We also continue to expand access to ever that GSK is well placed to succeed positive consumption trends and benefit our medicines to people living in the in emerging and pro-innovation markets from sales and distribution synergies poorest countries in the world.
In 2012 and that our R&D model is working.
GSK was again ranked number 1 in the This is creating clear, long-term capacity Access to Medicines ATM Index which for GSK to deliver continued innovation Investments to maximise returns in these assesses healthcare companies activities and benefit to patients, and sustained markets continue.
Last year, we opened in this eld.
In addition, we expanded performance and returns to shareholders.
a new innovation centre in China and our efforts to tackle neglected tropical have now increased our shareholding diseases and supply low-price vaccines to in our Indian subsidiary.
In line with the GAVI alliance for use in the worlds this strategic focus, we have decided to poorest countries.
We also received initiate a review evaluating all strategic further data on our candidate malaria options for the Lucozade and Ribena vaccine.
While additional analysis is drinks brands, which are primarily needed, this vaccine continues to have Sir Andrew Witty marketed in established Western markets.
the potential to save the lives of hundreds Chief Executive officer These brands are iconic and the review of thousands of children in Africa.
will look at the best ways to ensure their continued growth.
All forward looking statements are based on 2012 restated numbers adjusted for IAS 19R EPS of 111.4p, at CER and barring unforeseen circumstances.
See Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on the inside front cover and page 56 for an explanation of CER.
