Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Chief Executives questions and answers David Brown, Group Chief Executive, addresses topical questions from investors.
David has nearly 30 years experience in the transport sector.
increase has been built into new contracts.
You have been in the role Despite the significant headwinds, we expect of Group Chief Executive for to deliver a good result in bus next year as a a year now are you happy result of contract wins in London, contributions with the Groups performance?
We have from acquisitions and management action I am very pleased with the Groups a proven track taOen to offset these cost increases.
:e have grown both organically and acquisitively in line with our strategy and record of delivering How confident are you have achieved record operating profit in our that Go-Ahead can win the complex projects in bus division.
:e have delivered the strongest Thameslink rail franchise?
growth rates in the sector in our regional bus partnership with key :e are the busiest rail operator in the business and have acquired four value-adding 9 and with 15 successful years in the marOet industry players.
In London, we continue to be I believe we are in a good position.
As the a high quality and cost efficient operator.
:e current operator of Southern and former have secured additional contract wins and operator of ThameslinO, we Onow the networO expanded our business with the acquisition of very well.
:e have a proven tracO record of a depot and contract routes in 2orth London.
delivering complex proNects in partnership In rail, our three franchises have performed with Oey industry players and with eolis, our well despite the challenging economic minority Noint venture partner, we have the environment and we are delighted to be technological experience required for what on the shortlist for the new ThameslinO will be the largest franchise in the 9.
permanent bid team is very focused on delivering a successful bid that will add You have significant headwinds shareholder value.
in your bus division next year.
How do you plan to offset these?
How secure is the dividend?
:e will be impacted next year by an increase :e understand that our dividend policy in our hedged fuel price and by a reduction in is a Oey part of the investment decision for the subsidy received from Government for fuel many shareholders.
1aintaining the dividend duty, Onown as Bus Service 3perators Grant.
per share remains a high priority for us and In line with the rest of the sector it has been is supported by our strong balance sheet necessary for us to looO for cost efficiencies and cash generation.
and increase fares in our deregulated business Looking ahead, what are to mitigate this impact.
In London the cost your priorities for the near term future of the Group?
Growing the bus business will be a Oey priority.
I believe we can achieve this organically by remaining at the forefront of what passengers want, combined with targeted marOeting, seeOing further cost efficiencies and benets of scale.
I also believe there is substantial scope to grow the business through value-enhancing acquisitions.
In rail, we are committed to maintaining our significant share of the marOet by securing franchises that deliver value to passengers, tax payers and shareholders.
3ur 23,000 employees underpin our good performance and we will continue to invest in training to develop their sOills and performance.
