12 12 Business review ChIeF exeCuTIveS revIeW A reCOrD perFOrMANCe Greene King has again made significant progress over the last12months, delivering record results in a challenging consumer environment.
Our strategy is delivering attractive and sustainable growth in earnings and dividends, and we areconfident we can continue to make strong progress.
There are political challenges too, with Market overview perFOrMANCe SuMMAry the business having to bear significant Greene King has had another successful year Greene King has again made annual beer duty rises.
However, we are in a challenging consumer environment.
significant progress over the last supportive of the UK governments Although inflation is coming down, the 12months, delivering another intention to implement a minimum unit job market has steadied and interest rates setofrecord results: price for alcohol.
Set at the right level, we are low, consumer confidence remains believe this can be an effective measure weak and volatile.
This is driving the UK Revenue was 1,140.4m, a record, tocombat the irresponsible retailing consumer to seek out everyday treats, following 9.4% growth over andconsumption of alcohol.
This will rather than big ticket items.
have positive benefits for both society economic recovery on the horizon, we asawhole and the great British pub.
Operating profit before exceptionals, anticipate another tough twelve months However, we have concerns that the aheadof us, although we are confident at 236.2m, was also a record, after proposed 40 pence per unit will not have ofbenefiting from the exciting summer growth of 6.4%.
enough of a positive societal impact inBritain, including the Olympics Despite the negative impact of andtherefore we recommend the UK inAugust, notwithstanding the cost inflation, operating margins government looks to harmonise minimum unpredictable weather.
unit pricing with Scotland, at 50 pence remained strong at 20.7%, 60 basis per unit.
This predisposition to everyday treats points bps below last year, driven ishelping the industry to deliver steady by a change in business mix.
In 2011, the 22bn drinking out Our aim: to be Britains best pubs Profit before tax and exceptionals market grew 1.7% in value terms and it and beer business was 152.0m, up 8.6% on last isexpected to grow by 2.5% per annum Greene King aims to be Britains best pubs 1 between 2011 and 2015.
and beer business, as measured by our eating out market was up 2.4% in value customers, our shareholders and our people.
Adjusted earnings per share terms in 2011 and is expected to grow by 2 grew 10.0% to 53.0p.
And the 43bn staying out market was up The board is recommending a 1 CGA Brand Index December 2011.
2.9% in 2011 and is expected to grow by final dividend of 18.1p per share, 3 0.1% in 2012.
2 Allegra Strategies, Project Restaurants, 2012. leading to a total dividend of 24.8p 3 ONS Family Spending 2011, PwC UK Hotels per share, up 7.4% on last year.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
greeneking eeneking.. co co. uk.
uk 13 13 In our largest business, Greene King Retail, buildourpositive momentum as we strive Full year investment in our core ale weconstantly measure our customers tobe Britains best pubs and beer business.
brands increased by 7.2%, leading satisfaction with us through our mystery Ourpeople have worked extremely diligently toanother year of strong market guest and customer feedback programmes.
thisyear, as always, and our results are, once outperformance for Brewing & Brands.
Byunderstanding their needs and responding again, a testament to their effort, commitment Most significantly, were-launched Greene to their issues we ensure consistent offer and and the talent we have across our all parts King IPA, the UKs no.
1 cask ale brand, service improvement.
The key measure is the ofour business.
In a customer facing, including our first national TV advertising Net Promoter Score NPS.
This highlights people-centred business, the quality of for five years.
Wehave also increased our the difference between customers who would ourteam and their application to our task investment in innovation with the launch recommend a pub, restaurant or hotel to isakey driver of our continued success.
of a number of new brands and brand others the promoters of our business and extensions including Old Golden Hen those who would not the detractors of our andBelhaven Black.
In the year, this score reached a Our strategy is to improve our growth and Overall, across our two pub estates, EBITDA new high of 53%, up 13percentage points returns to shareholders through increasing per pub grew 8.8% to 114k in the year and %pts on the previous year.
Only one retail our exposure to the more attractive categories has grown 17.0% over the last two years, since brand in the UK achieved a higher score than in our markets, such as food, coffee, wine we announced our accelerated growth strategy.
both Local Pubs and Destination Pubs.
and rooms, and by increasing the level of influence and control we have over our offers Current trading and outlook in these categories.
In order to achieve this Strong momentum in our underlying trading most efficiently and successfully, we aim to: performance has continued into the new financial year, augmented by the Diamond grow Greene King Retail to around Jubilee and Euro 2012.
After the first eight 1,100sites and improve the overall quality weeks of the new financial year, LFL sales This was the second of the estate through targeted acquisitions inGreene King Retail are 7.1%, average and investment in our people, our offers EBITDA per pub in Pub Partners is 4.6% year of our focused and our assets: and Brewing & Brands' core brand volume improve the quality and sustainability is 2.7%.
growth strategy and we ofPub Partners, our tenanted, leased andfranchised business, by improving The outlook for the rest of the year remains have again made good thecustomer offer, investing in core assets uncertain as our customers continue to be and reducing the estate to a maximum challenged by pressure on their disposable progress in all areas.
of1,200 sites: and income and uncertainty around their job security.
However, our strategy is tailored continue investing in our sector-leading forthe prevailing conditions, focusing on portfolio of core ale brands.
providing everyday treats to our customers This was the second year of our focused and delivering attractive and sustainable growth strategy and we have again made growth in earnings and dividends.
We are Our strategy aims to deliver sustainable good progress in all areas: confident we can continue to make strong growth in earnings and dividends.
We are progress, not only for this year, but also confident that this strategy is building value We acquired or transferred in 51 new forthe long term.
for our shareholders, both now and for the Retail sites and, net of disposals, there long term.
We have grown adjusted earnings are954 pubs, restaurants and hotels in per share by 22.1% in the last two years, Greene King Retail, up from 888 when we following a 44 year unbroken run of earnings began our accelerated Retail expansion growth between 1964 and 2008.
We also have a healthy pipeline since 1952, we have delivered a dividend per of new sites.
All key growth categories Rooney Anand share CAGR of 9.1%.
have performed well in the year, led by Chief executive food sales, up 16.8%, and coffee sales, up 27 June 2012 We are also making progress in terms of our 20.1%.
Over the last two years, EBITDA employees and our licensees.
Our annual per pub in Retail has grown 14.1% to over employee engagement survey showed an 200k for the first time.
overall score up four % pts to 71%, closing the In Pub Partners, we disposed of 103 gap between the UK retail average from nine % pts points to two, while licensee tenure has non-core sites and transferred five sites to Greene King Retail.
Average EBITDA per improved further this year to be the best for five years at 3 years and 10 months.
We took greater control of the customer offer by increasing Meet We have set an ambitious target and we have & Eat franchise sites to 29, launching ten Local Hero sites and introducing specific made excellent progress this year.
Our ability to retain and attract the best talent from price support for over 180 Belhaven sites.
There is therefore now an element within our industry and more broadly from retail and consumer goods sectors gives ofdirect offer influence in 378 sites, or27% of the Pub Partners estate.
meconfidence that we can continue to Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
