26 Business Review Chief Executives Review In the year ahead we plan to develop this vision to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our key growth areas and accelerate our transition from traditional retailer to a contemporary provider of products and services.
David Wild Chief Executive Introduction Review of Trading In what has been a tough environment for customers the Group The last year continued to be a challenging time for the UK and generated an underlying profit before tax of 92.2m and ROI consumer sector.
People had less disposable income and continued cash generation for shareholders through good cost managed their discretionary spend tightly.
Motorists particularly management and margin control with free cash flow of 70.4m were affected by higher fuel prices and insurance costs.
after taking into account taxation, capital expenditure and net Halfords response has been to help customers by creating value finance costs.
through the quality and price of our products and the expertise Group revenues were 863.1m, down 0.8% overall Retail and service of our colleagues.
Our significant growth areas of 752.3m: Autocentres 110.8m.
Cycling, Fitting Services and Autocentres have all performed strongly.
Within Retail, revenues across the year on a like-for-like basis LfL were down 2.7%.
We also continued our store portfolio refresh programme, invested for the future in IT infrastructure, introduced new Sales of Car Maintenance products at -4.5% LfL, suffered as products and developed our team.
We have done this whilst motorists drove fewer miles and reduced their spending on managing costs sensibly.
The lack of a prolonged spell of winter weather, as in the preceding year, also reduced demand for cold The progress in our growth areas both demonstrates how we are weather products like fide-icers, screen wash and batteries.
evolving Halfords from a traditional out-of-town retailer to a significant service provider and creating the route to strengthen The demand for Do It For Me fitting continues to build and our our business further.
We are planning to take advantage of these wefit services have seen another year of strong growth.
We now opportunities in the year ahead.
fit 26.2% of the bulbs, blades and batteries we sell, as we build on Halfords unique customer offer and more customers look to us for expert help with basic Car Maintenance.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 27 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com cer The decline in Car Enhancement sales continued as the markets Group Revenue 863.1m for Sat Nav and audio products contract.
We have also seen falls in sales of Performance Styling and Car Cleaning products reflecting the pressure on motorists spending and the changing Retail Car Maintenance 87% nature of the auto accessory market.
27% Autocentres In Leisure we saw strong growth throughout the year, up 5.0% 13% Car Enhancement LfL, driven by increases in our cycling revenues through our 22% relaunched ranges.
com business, representing c. 9% of total Retail sales, 38% had a less buoyant year.
While we had significantly more visitors to our site, fewer of these converted to sales.
Cycle Accessories and in-car entertainment products performed well, but the sales of Sat Navs and child seats declined.
During the year we have invested in better technology, site information and deals.
Sales at our Autocentres grew strongly by c. 6% LfL and c. 13% overall, driven by the growing awareness of the Halfords brand in the garage servicing sector and recognition by motorists of the Online Product Ranges value we offer.
This performance is especially strong when compared to the overall auto aftercare market.
16,000 Strategy Option to Reserve & Collect Online 16,000 lines from every store type Vision 10,000 Our customers lead busy lives and each year they make Superstore thousands of essential journeys.
They need to keep moving for work and family and they want to travel for their holidays and 6,000 enjoy active leisure time.
4,200 Compact Halfords products and services are an essential part of the Metro everyday life of millions of people: and we are evolving our offer Figures quoted are for in line with the changing nature of our customers needs.
typical store examples Our vision is to Help and Inspire Customers with their Life on the Move.
In the year ahead we plan to develop this vision to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our key growth areas and accelerate our transition from traditional retailer to a contemporary provider of products and services.
We have carried out detailed research to map our areas of strength against the requirements and aspirations of our customers.
This work has identified, and confirmed, that we have a significant opportunity to grow in the medium to long term by 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 28 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued building on and evolving our current offering and service Halfords also helps motorists with motoring consumables like capability.
We have identified three areas where customers screen-wash, fide-icers and car-washing products, plus we are specifically want our help and which provide opportunities for the market-leading destination for Sat Navs, Car Audio and growth and the development of our business.
While the market for these products is declining, we have extended our leadership position and these These three strategic pillars are the Friend of the Motorist, the sales continue to contribute to our overall performance.
Best Cycle Shop in Town and the Starting Point for Great Getaways.
There is a strong trend towards Do It For Me in Car Maintenance and Halfords has seen a growing demand for our In each of these areas Halfords can create value for our wefit services.
The foundation of our fitting proposition is the customers through a unique blend of the quality, innovation and fitting of car bulbs, windscreen blades and batteries 3Bs, by the price of our products and the expertise and service of our our trained in-store colleagues.
During the year some 2 million colleagues.
wefit jobs were completed and 26.2% of all 3Bs sold were also fitted.
This compares with 23.5% fitted in FY11.
Strategic Pillars The 3Bs market, selling both product and fitting, is estimated to be worth 950m and Halfords only has a small percentage share The Friend of the Motorist of the market while garages and dealerships have a 75% share.
Our offer is unique, 7 days a week on-demand fitting at the most The last year has been a particularly challenging time for drivers competitive prices, so there is good potential to win sales and who have faced higher costs.
Halfords is uniquely placed to be grow revenues.
Fitting is also a high margin revenue stream and the Friend of the Motorist by providing end-to-end solutions for an economically favourable one, as labour costs are based on their auto aftercare needs.
Through the Car Maintenance parts in retail wage rates as opposed to the mechanics rates that our Retail stores, in-store fitting services and Autocentres, we garages and dealers charge.
can provide real value through our products, services and the expertise required to take the hassle out of motoring and make Our strategy is to maintain our DIY parts proposition while driving driving more enjoyable.
We can help motorists look after their awareness and sales of our fitting capability.
We have set cars, or we can take care of their cars for them.
stretching targets to increase uptake and this year we are We stock the widest selection of replacement car parts and budgeting for extra marketing, new point-of-sale materials, extra accessories of any retailer.
We can help the motorists who do colleague hours and training.
We are confident that because of their own maintenance find the right part for their make and the historic strong performance in this area, and the extra model and offer alternative price points through our good, better resources we are committing, that fitting is a significant avenue of and best ranging.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 29 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com The final element of being the Friend of the Motorist is delivered Halfords own and exclusive ranges of cycles.
We address the through our Autocentres.
We provide MOTs, car servicing and whole cycle market from entry level to high performance.
repairs and this is a natural extension of Halfords retail service Our great value Trax range, that is sold boxed for self-assembly, offer.
gives Halfords a competitive offer against supermarkets and This has been a year of significant progress for Halfords other non-specialist outlets.
As at 30 March 2012, we have 260 autocentres Apollo is the UKs best-selling cycle brand and offers value, and since rebranding we have actively developed our offer and quality build and good components.
promoted Halfords Autocentres through a national radio campaign, online marketing and national TV advertising.
Carrera provides performance specification and contemporary design without the price tag associated with global brands.
The results have been extremely encouraging and we have seen strong sales growth throughout the year as we win new Our exclusive Voodoo range is designed by Joe Murray, the customers.
Our progress during a period when motorists are award-winning American mountain biker, and is a premium cutting back is a clear sign that the Halfords brand is increasingly product for the serious mountain biker.
viewed as the destination for all auto aftercare needs and as the Top of the Halfords cycle range are Boardman cycles, designed Friend of the Motorist.
exclusively in collaboration with Halfords by former Olympic In the year Bill Duffy was promoted to CEO of Halfords champion Chris Boardman.
This range has been widely Autocentres, and Simon Benson recruited as Operations acclaimed for its leading designs, construction and price Director.
We have also relocated our Autocentres Head Office competitiveness and is endorsed by world famous riders such as from Olton to our Group Head Office site in Redditch: this is Alistair Brownlee, the reigning World Triathlon champion.
already bringing benefits in cross-functional working.
During the year we redesigned and relaunched many of our The long-term growth opportunity of this business remains cycles, including the entire Carrera range of 22 cycles and the compelling.
There are 32m cars on the UKs roads and the Voodoo range of 10 cycles.
It meant that at Christmas 2011 auto aftercare market is large and worth 8bn 10bn.
broadly half of our cycles were newly designed.
Competition is fragmented: there are around 24,000 garage We will continue to develop and improve our existing brands and outlets in the UK but numbers are in long-term decline due to introduce new ones that offer value and appeal to our economic factors.
Halfords Autocentres has a good opportunity customers.
A good example of this is the Carrera Virago, a to grow in this environment due to the strength of our proposition carbon-fibre road racer for under 1,000, a very competitive and the potential to leverage our brand.
price for such a quality performance cycle.
It has been extremely We are developing and investing in our customer relationship positively reviewed by both the mainstream media and management.
Car MOTs and servicing are linked to the age and specialised cycling press.
mileage of vehicles and this lends itself to advanced data management systems.
A key way we can help customers is to anticipate their vehicles needs and make the right marketing offer to take the stress out of vehicle maintenance and attract them to use our autocentres.
We intend to build on success through the roll-out of new autocentres.
During the year we opened 20 new autocentres and we are targeting up to 30 more in FY13.
Further growth opportunities exist from fleet customers and accelerating tyre sales.
We will also continue to invest in growing awareness and developing our proposition through innovative products.
For example our recently launched brakes-4-life offers customers free replacement brake parts once they have bought and had these parts fitted at Halfords.
Linking all the elements of our auto aftercare offer together means that we can provide all aspects of car maintenance for our customers.
Our products, services and value, backed by our trusted brand, offer real help to drivers and underpin our ambition to be the Friend of the Motorist.
The Best Cycle Shop in Town Our research shows that the cycle shop and its web offer are central to the enjoyment and experience of cycling.
We recognise that although we are the biggest provider of cycles to the UK market, at a local level and online we are not necessarily always the best cycle shop in every town.
This must be our aspiration.
The core of our strategy to be the Best Cycle Shop in Town is 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 30 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued In addition, to take full advantage of the heightened interest in In the last year we have grown cycling sales by c. 10%, and the Olympics, we have introduced limited edition, in British gained share in a growing market.
This demonstrates the colours, Carrera cycles.
We have also launched an exclusive strength of the Halfords brand and our cycling offer.
range of ladies cycles under the Pendleton brand, designed by The cycle market is estimated to be currently worth 1.4bn.
We Olympic and World champion cyclist Victoria Pendleton.
These now plan to take advantage of this opportunity to drive further are aimed at women who want to incorporate some cycling into growth in this category through the combination of great service, their everyday routine.
reliable maintenance and repair, the best value bike range in the UK Our innovative and competitively priced ranges mean that and new ranges of PACs.
Our ability to deliver our biggest ranges to Halfords is uniquely positioned to compete strongly at all levels of our customers next day is a winning formula within our strategy to the cycle market, providing customers with one of the best be the Best Cycle Shop in Town.
selections of designs and prices in any cycle shop.
The Starting Point for Great Getaways In addition to cycles, we stock a wide range of cycle parts and As well as essential travel, our customers also want to enjoy their accessories from locks and lights to high visibility jackets and active leisure time and use their cars to go on trips.
Our range of cycling helmets.
The Parts, Accessories and Clothing PACs products and services is designed to equip people for their market is estimated to be worth 615m annually and we have a journey and help them make the most of their time out of doors.
lower share of this market than our share of the cycle market.
A great example is our exclusive ranges of Exodus roof boxes.
This offers Halfords a significant opportunity to grow in this These significantly increase the carrying capacity of a car.
A high proportion of PACs sales occur online create extra space for luggage and other holiday essentials and so an important part of our strategy for growth will be to improve leave more room in the vehicle for the family.
We also supply the our range and order fulfilment for these products online.
We are roof bars and cycle carriers and have trained colleagues ready to planning to develop this category to capture an increased share fit everything for customers while they wait.
We stock all the products motorists need to reach their We also support our cycle offer through the advice and service of destination: tyre pumps, warning triangles and high visibility our colleagues: c. 95% of the cycles we sell we also build and we jackets.
At our autocentres we can check and service cars offer a free six-week first service.
Our Bike Care Plan that before they set off on long journeys.
provides repairs, free of labour charge, is another opportunity to develop a service based revenue stream.
Halfords offer extends beyond the journey.
We also stock tents and a whole range of camping and outdoor equipment.
These items provide the basis for the holiday itself.
Halfords is helping with great value offers, like our 4-person family tent pack, which contains a tent, sleeping bags, airbeds and a pump for less than 100.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 31 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com We help and inspire our customers with their life on the move Strategic Pillars Enablers Portfolio Web Operations Marketing People Values It is predicted that this year more families than ever will holiday in Through our store refresh programme we refurbished and Britain or look for lower cost ways of spending their vacation reconfigured over 80 stores during the year.
Thousands will come to Halfords as the starting point for achieved at these stores represent a good return on the invested their great getaway and catering for this demand provides a clear capital and ensures a short payback period.
Over 100 stores avenue for future growth.
across the estate have now been refreshed over the last two years.
In summary, through a focus on our three strategic pillars we plan to deliver sustainable revenue growth over the medium In London our High Street format stores provide a potential route term.
In the year ahead we intend to invest an additional c. 6m for further expansion in an area where there is a shortage of of Retail operating expenditure to create growth in these suitable superstore opportunities.
Of the total, 3.5m will be spent in support of our We have had considerable success during the year in our ambitions in fitting, 1.0m to enhance our multi-channel offer to negotiations with landlords in reducing occupancy costs.
Within complement our range and product development plans and our store portfolio our lease expiry profile means that we have 1.5m on training, capability and customer relationship c. 130 leases expiring over the next five years, which provide the management.
These drivers will be broadly profit neutral in opportunity to accelerate our work on reducing occupancy costs.
FY13 and will contribute to growth in top line and profitability from FY14.
The nature of the shopping trip is changing as customers combine online shopping, stock checking and research with more traditional store visits.
At Halfords, our stores must also Enablers facilitate our fitting and cycle repair services.
Stores in the future To deliver our strategic pillars we are focused on five key areas of will need to combine all these elements to provide a seamless our business which are central to improving our customer experience.
To test ideas that could provide future solutions and proposition and hence the progress of our business.
an enhanced shopping experience for our customers we have opened three laboratory stores.
These will be used to test Portfolio concepts and, if successful, it may be appropriate to include Our stores and our autocentres are the key ingredient of our some of these concepts in future store designs.
In the meantime multi-channel customer proposition.
Their location and layout are our store refresh programme is on hold pending the feedback central to how we deliver our ambition and our promise.
We have 467 retail stores and 260 autocentres trading throughout the UK and Ireland.
Approximately 90% of our customers live within a 20-minute journey of our stores.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 32 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued Web Operations Our commitment is to be a true multi-channel retailer, so that we While the sales performance has been challenging, the Group seamlessly integrate our web offer with our in-store experience.
has made significant operational progress this year.
We have Our development work is aimed to join together all aspects of the focused on enhancing customer service, reducing costs and shopping trip and to leverage within that the growing power and continuing to build a solid platform for future growth.
use of the web as part of it.
Enhancing our online offer and Our new Distribution Centre at Coventry, equipped with further extending our multi-channel presence is an investment state-of-the-art logistics technology, has operated smoothly and priority.
is a major contributor to good availability in our stores.
One To drive our ambition we have appointed a dedicated Digital innovation has been the commissioning of 24 new doubleDirector, Clive West, reporting to me.
He is responsible for all decker lorry trailers.
These can carry extra product, which helps aspects of our online offer from the online site to the delivery decrease road miles and saves fuel.
To reduce the costs of goods not-for-resale we have The launch of the mobile version of our site has been very implemented new processes.
Some contracts have been successful.
It enables our customers to research and purchase renegotiated with specifications and suppliers changed.
We have online while they are on the move.
Mobile traffic and revenues also appointed a new Head of Procurement responsible for experienced significant growth and almost a fifth of all visits and goods not-for-resale buying to continue our focus on driving over 10% of our online sales are now through these devices.
One innovation is a new process for the recovery of the 3,000 tonnes of waste cardboard from our stores The introduction of the Halfords App and offering quick response to our distribution centres, where it is baled and sold for QR codes at the point of sale are other mobile innovations recycling.
that Halfords has introduced to enhance the shopping experience for our customers.
Customers can scan barcodes To fulfil our ambitions in fitting we are actively recruiting and and access rich content like videos and product information, or training new colleagues.
We have also put in place new get help in finding the right part for their make and model of programmes for customer engagement to improve the in-store vehicle.
We have experienced over 370,000 visits to our App last experience and the help we offer people when they visit a year and over 15,000 QR codes were scanned.
We have also made considerable progress in enhancing our Autocentres continued to develop and enhance the technical IT infrastructure and improving our on-site experience.
This meant executing the tyre sales continue to develop the site with additional functionality aimed opportunity whilst developing compelling offers such as at improving our customer journey.
We are focused on the entire brakes-4-life.
Additional investment in centre capability was customer journey from accessing the site to order fulfilment.
complemented by trials of extended hours and Sunday openings.
Our product mix lends itself to a multi-channel offer as customers often want further advice, a demonstration or fitting.
Online Marketing purchasing patterns reflect this, with 86% of sales on Halfords.
Our new marketing campaign thats helpful, thats Halfords com reserved and then collected from a store.
We recently made has helped build awareness of the value we offer through great a further improvement to this service.
Customers who buy an prices, quality and innovative products with the expert service of item online before 6.00 pm from the vast majority of Halfords our colleagues.
Our Christmas campaign was critically acclaimed 16,000 online product range can now choose to collect it the and developed this theme highlighting the lasting value of next day from their local store for free, even if that store does not Halfords products like cycles which provide pleasure for years.
Direct delivery to home represents Our summer campaign demonstrates how Halfords has helped 14% of our online sales and we also continue to focus on customers for many years make the most of their holidays.
Using improving this proposition for our customers.
We now offer free the strapline, The Best Trips Last a Lifetime, it focuses on delivery on a wide range of products as well as Saturday delivery.
how customers use our products to make the best of their The Halfords Autocentres website has provided a significant summer holidays.
route to grow our Autocentres business.
In the fragmented We also extended our national advertising of Autocentres from garage sector the relaunched website, with improved radio to TV with a series of idents around the motoring functionality, has provided a point of difference and resonated programmes on the Dave channel.
These illustrate the delighted with customers.
The revenue derived from online bookings was response of motorists who have been helped by Halfords up by c. 40%.
Online bookings now account for 25% of all colleagues.
Autocentres bookings with 7% of bookings coming from the Halfords.
Further integration of the Retail and Autocentres websites is a focus.
The Autocentres website has also successfully supported our ambition in tyre sales, with online tyre sales up 170% in the year.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 33 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com People I would like to thank all our colleagues for their hard work and their immense contribution to the progress of our business.
Our colleagues, in all areas of our business, are of paramount importance to help our customers.
Their passion and abilities are Summary and Outlook central to the delivery of our strategic objectives and I am Halfords continues to be highly profitable and strongly cashextremely proud of their commitment and enthusiasm.
generative, and is maximising its performance in a demanding In addition, their expert knowledge, advice and service retail environment.
We help and inspire differentiate us from our competition, especially the online pure While this is a challenging time, Halfords has delivered significant our customers with their plays, and generate attractive levels of return.
In the year we growth in Leisure, including cycles, fitting services and life on the move have invested in extra training for colleagues through our Autocentres throughout the past and prior years.
This programmes to encourage higher levels of engagement with demonstrates how we are evolving our business from a customers.
We are also investing in extra training to increase Strategic Pillars traditional out-of-town product retailer to a significant service the number of colleagues who carry out fitting and cycle provider.
Some other areas of the business like Car Enhancement are We track our success in customer service through Empathica shrinking while others like DIY Car Maintenance are mature and customer surveys and our detailed quarterly customer research: have been affected by the pressures on motorists and the these show that increasingly customers recommend our service Enablers reduction in mileages being driven.
The strong performance of Halfords growth areas is proof of the Portfolio Web Values are central to all successful organisations and this year we relevance of our offer in the busy lives of our customers.
By have more clearly defined the central tenets of the way we want Helping and Inspiring our Customers with their Life on the Operations Marketing People to work together.
We launched these at our first Company-wide Move we play a vital role for millions of people.
The values are: strategic pillars the Friend of the Motorist, the Best Cycle Shop Values in Town, and the Starting Point for Great Getaways give us an attractive route to evolve our business over the longer term.
We plan to take advantage of these opportunities and to accelerate the transition through strategic investments in the year ahead.
We anticipate that this will contribute to growth in our sales and profits in the medium term.
In the year ahead we are running an engagement survey for all our colleagues which will help us to understand how to support and offer the best training possible.
David Wild As well as the appointments already mentioned, my Executive Chief Executive Officer team has been completed during the year with the promotion of 30 May 2012 Kevin Thomas as Retail Director and the appointment of Jonathan Crookall as Group HR Director.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
