14 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 chIEf ExEcutIvEs stratEgIc rEvIEw our stratEgIc and opEratIonal focus Specialist recruitment is an industry that offers significant long-term structural growth opportunities as client organisations across the world increasingly turn to experts such as Hays to help them source the very best talent.
In the short term however, recruitment is geared to the economic cycle and we must ensure that our day-to-day operational focus is responsive and quick to adapt to changes in each market as and when they occur.
Capitalising on this long-term opportunity and building Hays to be the global leader in specialist recruitment is the cornerstone of our strategy.
Managing our short-term actions to maximise Group profitability whilst ensuring we invest appropriately to build the long-term global platform are the key management alIstaIr cox ChiEF ExECUTiVE challenges in our business.
hIstorIc nEt fEEs by dIvIsIon % IntroductIon: combInIng a clEar stratEgIc dIrEctIon wIth nImblE opEratIonal focus 20 29 30 33 36 The world we operate in today is increasingly complex, so this year we have changed the way we present our Group strategy in order to better illustrate the way we think about and 22 manage our business against this backdrop.
On the page opposite, we have outlined our 22 aims as a Group, as well as the two levels on which we manage the business.
Our four 26 31 33 Strategic Pillars underpin everything we do in order to deliver on these long-term aims.
58 Additionally, our areas of Operational Focus describe how we manage the business on 49 44 a day-to-day basis in response to the prevailing and fast-changing environment.
36 31 In an industry, which has clear structural growth opportunities but is also characterised by cyclicality, this twin-track approach is critical to achieving our long-term aims, whilst 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 maximising the short-term performance of the Group.
our four stratEgIc pIllars Continental Europe asia Pacific & rest of World UK & ireland Our four Strategic Pillars underpin the way we manage and grow the Group over the long term.
They remain unchanged regardless of the stage of the economic cycle, and they are designed to ensure we are never distracted from our core strategic aim of building the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
dIvErsIfIcatIon of spEcIalIsms We assess our progress against these Strategic Pillars in our Key Performance Indicators, which you will find on pages 20 and 21.
Additionally, I give my own view on our progress over the last 12 months and discuss our focus in 2013 on pages 16 to 19. our opEratIonal focus 2002 2012 Overlaying these Strategic Pillars are our areas of short-term Operational Focus.
We need to be nimble and responsive to the market context in which we find ourselves, so our actions 9 reflect todays complex, multi-speed and overall more challenging market conditions.
20 These areas of Operational Focus represent the immediate to-do list for the Groups executive team as we manage the business.
In a cyclical industry such as specialist recruitment, notwithstanding the longer-term structural growth opportunities which exist, it is critical that we can quickly shift our emphasis between investment and cost control as market conditions change, in order to maximise fees and profits in the short term.
Throughout the next few pages, my strategic review includes brief case studies and updates on how we are approaching each of these areas of Operational Focus.
Additionally, you can P. 20 For more detail about our progress in 2012 find operating reviews of each of our divisions starting on page 24. see our Key Performance indicators 15 directors report business review our aIms buIld thE worlds prE-EmInEnt spEcIalIst rEcruItmEnt busInEss dElIvEr wEll-dIvErsIfIEd and profItablE fEE growth our four stratEgIc pIllars 1 2 3 4 onE hays around growth taIlorEd to bEst pEoplE In EffIcIEncy and thE world markEt opportunItIEs thE Industry opEratIonal EffEctIvEnEss Single global brand Build global scale Recruit, engage and retain Maximise consultant the best people productivity Globally consistent Diversify specialisms in customer service existing countries Provide industry-leading Leverage best-in-class training technology platform Global thought leadership Selected new country openings Provide global career Drive efficiencies through opportunities and mobility automated back-office Respond to evolving systems client needs Integrate with developing Find new ways of social media channels addressing our markets our opEratIonal focus fully capItalIsE on all opportunItIEs Exploit buoyant markets Further build scale and diversity P. 17 Find our Oil & Gas roll-out Fully capitalise on long-term structural opportunities case study dEfEnd and maxImIsE fInancIal pErformancE Focus on UK profits Targeted, selective investment P. 24 Find our regional Focus on consultant productivity Operating reviews rEspond to and bEst sErvE ExIstIng and EvolvIng clIEnt dEmands Local network and expertise Efficient corporate accounts offering P. 18 P. 18 Find more detail on our Find more detail on our Evolving product offering corporate accounts business 3 Story Software product rEcruItmEnt, traInIng and lEadErshIp dEvElopmEnt Find more detail on our Performance-driven remuneration Active local management P. 16 approach to hiring and Best-in-class training and development developing the best people contInuE to rEsEarch and rEspond to nEw mEdIa Position the Group to capitalise on all opportunities P. 19 Find more detail on our Anticipate and understand potential threats Build partnerships approach to new media 16 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 chIEf ExEcutIvEs stratEgIc rEvIEw COnTinUED Selective investment to capitalise on growth areas combined with strong cost control and a focus on productivity has delivered a strong performance.
IntroductIon to our pErformancE In 2012 Throughout 2012 we focused on ensuring that the Group was quick to respond to changes in market conditions as and when they occurred around the world.
Our priorities were to drive fee growth where opportunities existed and defend our profit performance in those parts of the business which faced more challenging conditions.
This approach manifested itself in four main ways: Ensuring we are positioned to take full advantage of structural growth opportunities by continuing to build our presence in regions such as Latin America, Japan and Germany: Continuing our strategy of international diversification by launching in new countries we opened in Chile, Colombia and Malaysia in 2012, and launching core Hays specialisms in existing countries: opEratIonal focus Investing selectively to capitalise on opportunities for growth in more buoyant markets, rEcruItmEnt, traInIng and such as Western Australia, Germany and Canada: and lEadErshIp dEvElopmEnt Reducing costs, maximising fee opportunities and optimising consultant productivity in A key pillar of our strategy is more challenging markets.
our commitment to recruit, As a result, I am pleased that we have delivered good turnover, net fee and operating profit engage and retain the best growth.
In the second half of the year, we improved profitability sequentially and versus prior year, despite the fact that net fees were lower than in the first half.
This result is testament to people in the industry.
our focus on cost control and our multifaceted approach to managing the business in what We have enhanced our recruitment became overall more challenging and increasingly complex markets.
processes by launching our new careers 1 1 Our International business grew net fees by 16%, and 17 countries delivered growth of 10% website, which has had over 400,000 or more.
Given the more uncertain macroeconomic environment, particularly in the second visits to date.
Over 40,000 people in half of our year, this is clear evidence of the structural growth characteristics of markets such 190 countries have taken part in the as Germany, Brazil and Japan.
In addition, it illustrates the expertise of our teams around the award-winning Hays Challenge, our world, their ability to respond to challenges and fully capitalise on opportunities in their purpose-built interactive recruitment tool.
Visit our careers website and play Over the last few years, we have very deliberately expanded our global footprint and the the hays Challenge at hays-careers.
com diversity of our sectoral offering and this has delivered clear benefits in 2012.
As the most We encourage our consultants to develop sectorally diversified business in our industry, combined with our global scale and balanced as experts through structured on-the-job exposure to both mature markets and areas of structural growth, we have built a clear experience, coaching, mentoring, e-learning competitive advantage in an industry which is undeniably impacted by the macroeconomic and dedicated training programmes.
Whilst some markets that are core to our Group have been challenging throughout have also been instrumental in developing the year, the fact that we have long-established, market-leading businesses in more buoyant a new industry award that recognises the areas such as Resources & Mining, Engineering, Life Sciences and IT has been central to quality of the consulting skills shown by delivering a good set of results in 2012. our more experienced consultants.
The progrEss agaInst our objEctIvEs In 2012 calibre of our management teams is Our long-term aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
On critical to our success.
Our future leaders pages 14 and 15 I outline the Strategic Pillars which underpin the work we do to achieve that complete our industry-leading Advanced aim, as well as the areas of Operational Focus we have as we manage the business to deliver Management Programme and 50 of our sustainable, profitable growth.
Last year I similarly outlined our priorities for 2012 and it is most senior leaders have completed the important to revisit them and assess our progress over the last year.
Fast Forward global executive development programme.
P. 51 Fore more detail, go to our 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency, before Employees section exceptional items.
17 directors report business review driving uk performance The UK market became increasingly challenging as the year progressed.
The private sector which represents around 75% of our UK net fees saw conditions become progressively more difficult, notably in the Banking and City-related specialisms.
Confidence amongst our clients and candidates has been reduced by heightened concern about the global economy, particularly in the second half of the year, as the UK entered a double-dip recession.
After falling 60% from peak levels, the UK public sector has remained broadly stable through 2012 1 and, in the fourth quarter, we delivered net fee growth of 6%.
Public-sector activity remains at low levels, however, and is mainly driven by more senior permanent roles.
We do not expect material growth in this business in the short term, but longer term we do expect the UK public sector to again become a significant addressable market for the Group.
In this difficult context, we have taken the actions necessary to best defend the bottom line of the UK business.
We have implemented initiatives to generate cost savings in our UK back-office of around 15 million and, given our view on the outlook for the UK, we will continue to take action on costs where required.
Importantly, we will continue to capitalise on all fee opportunities available.
With this in mind, I appointed Nigel Heap as the Managing Director of our UK & Ireland business in May.
Nigel has been with Hays for over 24 years, opEratIonal focus spending the last 15 years in Australia building that business into the success it is today and oIl & gas roll-out running our Asia Pacific region.
In his new role, Nigel will focus on driving fee and profit growth through the UK business.
Oil & Gas is an industry that continued international growth and diversification is truly global by nature, The performance of our International business in 2012 has again been excellent.
The 2 with over 40% of workers well-balanced, diversified business model we have built across our Asia Pacific and Continental Europe & Rest of World divisions over the last few years is critical to this now based outside their and the Group now generates around 70% of net fees from the International business, own country.
Our strategy for growing the International business is multifaceted.
We are primarily focused Last year at Hays we sourced candidates for on developing the businesses we have in existing markets whether that is by new office the global Oil & Gas industry across a broad openings we opened new offices in Belgium, Germany and China or launching new range of skilled and technical disciplines.
This not only increases the diversification of our revenues To meet this growing global demand, but, more critically, it fundamentally underpins the service we offer our clients and candidates.
we have opened our second US office A good example of this is the roll-out of our market-leading Oil & Gas specialism into the in Houston, Texas.
This office will initially USA and Denmark.
focus on our global Oil & Gas offering, In addition to this focus on diversification, we continued to expand our footprint throughout and will be headed by our North American 2012 and now operate in 33 countries, having opened Hays businesses in Chile, Colombia President, John Faraguna.
Houston is the and Malaysia.
base for many clients with whom we already have established relationships in delivering exceptional customer service Europe, the Middle East, Asia and South Delivering world-class service ultimately boils down to our ability to understand and solve the America and represents the logical next challenges faced by our clients and candidates around the world every day.
As a leading specialist strategic step as we continue to roll-out recruitment business, we advise people through one of the most important and often most and develop this key specialism.
difficult decisions they ever make: changing jobs, or hiring the right person for their business.
Hays Oil & Gas operates from 13 of our In doing this, our key differentiator is the quality of our consultants and their ability to act as countries worldwide, and has also been trusted advisers.
It is also about the quality of the systems and processes we have in place to launched this year in Denmark which will allow them to most effectively meet the demands of our clients, and ensure an excellent and act as our base for Northern Europe.
We professional experience for our candidates.
will continue the strategic roll-out of this Not only are our new IT systems driving our consultants ability to service the needs of the key global specialism.
market, they are also highly adaptable to the advances we see every day in how people use Visit our Oil & Gas website at technology in their daily lives.
As the world moves more towards mobile platforms for example, hays-careers.
com oil-and-gas our IT systems allow contractors to submit their timesheets or search for their next assignment 2 T he Oil & Gas Global Salary Guide 2012, produced via their smartphones.
Similarly, as communities of professionals develop on various social media by Hays Oil & Gas and Oil & Gas Job Search.
networks, our IT systems enable us to effectively utilise sites such as LinkedIn, Facebook and 18 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 chIEf ExEcutIvEs stratEgIc rEvIEw COnTinUED Twitter as new channels to find the experts that our clients need.
Having completed a major investment programme in our technology platforms, we are now uniquely positioned in our industry to take advantage of these changes in how people communicate and build relationships.
We must recognise that the world of recruitment continues to evolve as clients demands change and candidates channels to find their next role develop.
To remain a leader in the industry it is vital that we remain at the forefront of product and service innovation, to ensure that we can deliver effectively both now and in the future to each of our chosen market segments.
There is no one-size-fits-all for recruitment in todays world.
The needs of our large corporate clients differ significantly from those of our smaller clients for example, so we need solutions tailored to each.
Over the year, we have continued to invest in these tailored services.
Our acquisition of 3 Story Software, a contingent workforce management system, and its subsequent integration into our own Managed Service business, is just one such example of investing to address specific client needs.
This integrated solution allows us to manage our clients temporary worker labour forces and illustrates how we are developing our spectrum of services to truly power the world of work, whoever are our clients.
hays corporatE accounts opEratIonal focus provide this range of services.
We call this vEndor managEmEnt Large, complex organisations Hays Corporate Accounts and it contributes that require high volumes The ability to respond to and 5% of our Group net fees.
of skilled employees are best serve all client demands In our view the key to delivering this alternative model is to be as operationally increasingly seeking to formalise is critical to our success.
effective as possible, with well-integrated the way they source those processes, dedicated teams and a robust Computacenter face the complex people.
Vendor Management System software challenge of efficiently managing their platform, which gives the client control workforce of skilled technicians, generally Employers are looking for more consistency, along with access to high-quality, real-time contracted on assignments across price discipline and control in the way they management information.
manage the recruitment of skilled people.
Not only did they have to manage the The structure of these arrangements ranges complicated workflows, but they needed from the implementation of simple Preferred to implement a system which could Supplier Lists PSL, to formal contracts 5% 5 provide accurate operational and financial with the management of the recruitment of group tracking for each assignment.
process outsourced to a single supplier 15 or Master Vendor.
These contractual Hays worked with Computacenter to arrangements are known as Recruitment 15% implement our cloud based vendor Process Outsourcing RPO for permanent of uk management system, 3 Story Software, hires or Managed Service Provision MSP which enables organisations to effectively net fees for contractors or temporary workers.
manage their contingent workforce and generated by supply chain, allowing hiring managers, We have responded to these changing hays Corporate suppliers and employees to collaborate client needs by building a business to accounts online through a single portal.
Investment in people This integrated system provided an We are the ultimate people business.
To fulfil our long-term aims we need to hire the very enhanced level of control over the entire best people, provide them with the industrys best training, give them excellent career process, including real-time management development opportunities and reward and motivate them effectively and appropriately.
Efficiency benefits were recognised immediately: job fill rates were Each of these aspects is fundamental to our success in creating experts throughout Hays improved to over 99% and time-to-hire who are the very best in the world at servicing our clients and candidates needs.
I am pleased that we have made further demonstrable progress in each area.
For example, we have launched our own interactive recruitment tool, the Hays Challenge, to better source Find out more at potential new consultants.
Within a year, over 40,000 potential recruits from 190 countries 3storysoftware.
com have taken the Hays Challenge online, many of them going on to apply for a role in our 19 directors report business review business.
Similarly we have invested further in our Hays Academies, which provide a standardised training programme for all of our joiners right through their consultant career.
To equip our leaders to deal with todays complex world, we have enrolled 150 of our senior managers in our advanced management and leadership programmes.
With each of these initiatives, I believe we are investing wisely in our people to make them the best in the industry.
prIorItIEs and focus for 2013 Regardless of the stage of the economic cycle, our long-term aims and the structural growth opportunities in our industry remain unchanged and we will continue to work within the framework of our four Strategic Pillars as we build towards achieving them.
The long-term opportunities in this industry are very significant indeed.
At the same time, we recognise the need for short-term financial performance.
Looking ahead to 2013, we expect the overall economic backdrop to remain difficult and our markets to continue to be multi-speed.
That means we need to be both adaptable to the world as it changes and selective about areas for investment.
Achieving the right balance of building scale for the long term, exploiting stronger market segments and reducing costs and driving productivity to maximise the bottom line in more difficult areas will be key to our success.
opEratIonal focus Within this, my primary focus will be on the following specific areas for 2013: rEsEarchIng nEw mEdIa delivering improved financial performance in the uk Social media networks Our number-one priority is improving the financial performance of the UK business.
The recessionary UK market, however, remains very difficult, and in many of our core and the internet are now specialisms such as Banking & Finance, or Construction & Property, the market continues an integral part of the way to be increasingly challenging.
We have already made significant progress in reducing the cost base of the UK business and thereby defended the financial performance of we source candidates and the business over the year.
However, we will continue to look for further areas to reduce address key markets.
costs but will be careful this will not damage the underlying fabric of the business.
Simultaneously, we will continue to focus on improving the productivity of our consultant We have established a coordinated, base and redirecting resources to fully capitalise on all opportunities for growth.
informed and standardised approach selective investment in growth markets or buoyant areas to our social media presence worldwide.
Over the years we have deliberately built a business with exposure to a diversified range Global and country or specialism-specific of industry specialisms and a market leadership position in most.
Several opportunities pages on networks such as Facebook and for growth exist across the business today, even in the current uncertain macroeconomic LinkedIn provide a forum for discussion environment, particularly in those industries characterised by highly skilled technical experts.
as well as a means of attracting new Examples include life sciences, natural resources and mining, oil and gas and IT engineering.
candidates and marketing available roles.
Having already built the global market-leading brand in each of these technical areas, our Via our dedicated Research & Development clients and candidates recognise the depth of our expertise to help them and department, we continue to monitor and we will continue to invest selectively in these areas, for example by increasing headcount evaluate new media and social network in our existing businesses in large markets such as Germany, Australia and Canada as well opportunities and threats and measure as building critical mass in our newer markets such as the USA and Brazil.
the effectiveness of our existing activity.
Ensuring we capitalise on structural growth opportunities The structural growth potential of our industry represents a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
We have built businesses with market-leading exposure to the most significant opportunities and a key focus remains on ensuring we are ideally positioned to fully capitalise on this, whether that is in more developed economies such as Germany or Japan, or emerging economies such as Brazil.
We will continue to invest appropriately to build our business in 92,000 these areas so that we maintain market-leading positions, and seize the long-term potential for growth that exists.
followErs on lInkEdIn 20 facEbook pagEs
