HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR ANTHONY BUCKINGHAM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  2012 and into 2013 resulted from 2012 has been a momentous year in decisions to exit Kurdistan and Mali, and enter new regions of Nigeria andPapua New Guineawhilst extending our acreage in theevolution of Heritage.
Our portfolio now includes significant producing assets enhancedour portfolio through and an enlargedexploration portfolio.
This combinationprovides more balance with both geographic and operational diversication.
corporate activity, securing a step change in production, reserves and Since the acquisition of an interest in OML 30, total revenues, net to Heritage of $234.5 million have been generated and cash received in cashow.
2013 from Nigeria at an average realised price of $116.87 bbl.
The crude is marketed by a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc and given the quality of the crude attracts a premium to Brent.
This revenue generated excess cash ow which resulted in Shoreline making a payment of $52.5 million in April 2013 to reduce the bridge loan from $550 million to $497.5 million.
We are currently in the process of renancing this to a long-term five year loan.
Heritage has an exceptional multi-year record of creating value and monetising assets and hasgenerated c. $2 billion in asset sales with the current executive management team.
We have consistently identied assets which are underdeveloped or overlooked andwe have utilised the expertise of the Board and our technical team to create a strategic asset position.
Against the ongoing backdrop of economic uncertainty, oil prices have remained high and the Company has secured assets with significant production potential which will generate high netback returns.
Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 13 TSR Versus Peers Since TSX Listing, % 10000 9000 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 Jan 99 Jan 01 Jan 03 Jan 05 Jan 07 Jan 09 Jan 11 Jan 13 Premier Oil Salamander Energy Heritage Oil Plc Tullow Oil Soco International Afren Source: Factset and Datastream as of 25 January 2013 NEW AREAS OML 30 is located onshore and comprises eight producing eldswith associated infrastructure which includes a 45% interest in the NIGERIA In November 2012, Heritage, through Shoreline, completed the 850,000 bpd capacity Trans Forcados pipeline running from the Eriemu Field, within the licence, to the Forcados River manifold.
acquisition of an interest in OML 30.
Shoreline is a special purpose Nigerian company formed between a subsidiary of Heritage and a OML 30 is one of the largest onshore licences, by reserves, in Nigeriawith gross proved and probable reserves of 1.1 billion barrels Nigerian partner, Shoreline Power, which acquired 45% of OML 30.
This  Heritages first significant participation of oil, as estimated independently by RPSas at 31 March 2012.
Consequently, this one licence alone contains more oil reserves than in the Nigerian oil industry and creates a platform for future growth in the region.
are held within many entire African countries.
Average production, net to Heritage, from OML 30 for November and The licence benets from having all infrastructure already in place.
There are nine ow stationswith the capacity to handle 395,000 bpd, December was 12,350 bopd.
Since the acquisition on 1 November 2012, gross production for the licence has averaged c. 20,350 bopd thereby handling several years of projected production growth.
The but has been as high as 42,825 bopd.
This is in part dueto a manifold facilities have been robustly designed and constructed, benefiting in a gaslift compressions system failing and also to a strike by local from following a standard design enabling equipment to be easily workers.
These twoissues are being addressed and the manifold is replaced if necessary.
The licence includes anownership interest in expected to be repaired by the end of May.
The majority of the elds the Trans Forcados Pipeline which transports production from OML are operating again after a series of successful meetings the operator 30 and several other licences to an export terminal on the coast.
The held with local workers.
The remaining elds are expected to be back pipeline generates revenues which provides the licence owners with a in production shortly.
Good progress has been made to increase profit from the tariff charged.
Gross revenue from the Trans Forcados production in the second half of the year, primarily through Pipeline is expected to total approximately $50 million in 2013. improved gas lift with new compressors being ordered.
There has been no evidence of bunkering on the pipeline since the acquisition.
With OML 30, and through Shoreline, we saw the opportunity to acquire a world class asset at lowvaluation multiples.
The acquisition We identied the potential to both stabilise and increase production cost of $1.70 per barrel of proved and probable reserves 2P versus in the near term through the refurbishment of infrastructure and the the average for precedent transactions inthe Niger Deltaof $5.90 per re-starting of non-producing existing wells.
In addition, existing barrel of 2P reserves represents a significant discount.
It is the largest wellswill be worked over to improve completions and gas lift can be upstream onshore asset transaction in sub-Saharan Africa on a 2P installed in a number of existing wells which do not have articial basis and positions Shoreline as one of the largest indigenous oil lift.
Longer term, there is the potential to increase gross production companies in Nigeria.
for the eld to c. 300,000 bopd through the drilling of new wells which isexpected to begin in the second half of 2014.
Since 1961, over 200 wells have been drilled on the licence and the strong aquifer support has enabled the majority to become producers.
To date work on the licence has commenced with ordering four new Eight elds have been developed and there is a railway line to an gas lift compressors, the first of which will be delivered in June, export terminal on the coast.
However, the licence has installing diesel generators and installing new instrument air previouslybeen ill maintained and underdeveloped with a sporadic compressors.
Over the course of this year further work will continue drilling history, especially since 1980. aimed at optimising existing facilities.
Gas lift is the single method of articial lift within OML 30 and six of the eight elds have gas lift installed, with installation at the two remaining elds planned in HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 2014-2015.
Improving the gas lift system is the key target in 2013 and c. 600 kilometres of 2D seismic acrossthe north eastern margin of the we believe could increase production by up to 20%.
basinwhich is currently being processed.
We continue to be excited with the potential in the Rukwa Rift Basin and Kyela which we Shoreline has opened its technical and administrative head office in believe to share certain geological similarities with the Albert Basin Lagos, employing a team of17 members of staff.
A very good working of Uganda, where we were the pioneering oil companyto undertake relationship has been established with the Nigerian Petroleum active exploration forthe first time in nearly 60 years.
Following a Development Company NPDC, the operators of OML 30, on technical review in 2012, all expenditures relating to Latham were joint technical and operational reviews of all the elds and facilities written-off.
and the budget for 2013 has been approved.
NPDC took over operatorship of OML 30 at the beginning of February 2013 after a OTHER ASSETS three month transition period.
RUSSIA Production averaged 607 bopd over the year, a decrease of 10% over Shoreline has also commenced a series of programmes in OML 30 the year due to natural well decline and a temporary mechanical issue after meeting with local communities to ensure that the company can on well 363 which has been resolved.
Based on positive results from implement the most effective social programmes for these the horizontal well drilled in August 2011, a revised eld communities, with a focus on education, training and healthcare.
development plan was submitted for Zapadno Chumpasskoye, replacing vertical producerswith horizontal wells.
The change in well Heritages partner, Shoreline Power, is a pan-African energy and type should result in a significant reduction in thenumber of infrastructure business with an existing network of strong and production wells required to develop the eld and a corresponding respected relationships within Nigeria.
Coupled with the experience reduction in drilling expenditure.
Our reviseddevelopment proposal of Heritages technical team the two companies create, in Shoreline, a was accepted by regulatory authorities at theend of December 2012. company that is well positioned as a platform for further growth within the country.
Nigeria, with estimated proved reserves of 37.2 LIBYA AND MALTA billion barrels, is the largest African producer with 2.5 MMbbls per A new Libyan government was established in the second half of 2012 day, according tothe BP Statistical Review 2012, and has welland as this and other government institutions become established, we established infrastructure from over 50 years of oil production.
The are confident that a constructive dialogue with Malta will develop country is predicted to be one of the largest growing emerging regarding the associated maritime boundary issues and hydrocarbon economies with growth expected in the energy sector.
Heritage is actively assisting officials in both countries tomove forward with these discussions, ultimately to enable the PAPUA NEW GUINEA exploration and development of Area 7 where a prospect has been In April 2013 we announced the expansion of our exploration identied and preparations continue to drill a well, subject to Maltese portfolio withentry into PNG.
Heritage has agreed to acquire an government approval.
80% working interest in PPL 319 and PRL 13 from LNG Energy.
In return for earning the working interests and operatorship, Heritage CORPORATE will fund the costs of the seismic acquisition and the cost of drilling BOARD CHANGES an exploration well.
We look forward to developing and accelerating I am pleased to announce that we have strengthened our Board this the work programme as this acreage provides the opportunity to year with two appointments: Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin.
discover large gas reserves at a time when regional gas demand is Carmen, the first  toour Board, joined in growing rapidly.
The licences are onshore and close to multiple March 2012, replacing Salim Macki who retired.
Mark joined the producing elds and discoveries, including the multi-TCF Triceratops Board in May 2012.
We view both appointments as outstanding and Elk Antelope discoveries.
There is also a close proximityto additions to our Boardwith considerable experience.
current and under-construction infrastructure with the Kutubu oil export pipeline and the PNG Liqueed Natural Gas pipeline crossing CASH the acreage.
As at 31 December 2012, Heritage had a cash position of approximately $90 million, excluding amounts related to the tax TANZ ANIA dispute of approximately $405 million, which is more than sufficient In January 2012 Heritage was awarded the Kyela PSA which had to cover planned work programmes into 2014. never previously been targeted for hydrocarbon exploration.
Our work programme commenced with the acquisition of a c. 1,500 PETROFRONTIER CORP. square kilometre very high resolution gravity survey indicating the Heritage continued to acquire common shares Shares of presence of structural highs adjacent to a main depocentre.
In PetroFrontier Corp. PetroFrontier for investment purposes and January 2013 we completed a 100 kilometre reconnaissance seismic currently holds 19.98% of the outstanding Shares of PetroFrontier.
survey across the Kyela Block which has confirmed the structures PetroFrontier is listed on the TSX Venture Exchange and is focused previously indicated by the gravity data.
The processing of this data on a high-impact drilling programme in Australia targeting billions will enable the positioning of targeted inll 2D seismic which is of barrels of resources.
scheduled to be acquired later this year.
During 2012 we reprocessedthe legacy 2D seismic in Rukwa and acquired a further Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 15 BUY BACK PROGRAMME CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Heritage commenced a share buy back programme in April 2011.
To We continue tomature our approach to CSR and engagement with date 34,602,442 Ordinary Shares have been bought back and are held stakeholders towards achieving a shared future, which is a key in treasury.
Shares were bought back in the year under the authority element supporting our core business model.
We have developed, and continue to review, a policy framework disclosing our essential core given at the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM.
No such authority was sought at the 2012 AGM.
I am delighted to report that we continue to maintain a strong track record for health and safety which is fundamental in being 255,595,978 Ordinary Shares in issue excluding treasury shares as well as 2,361,018 exchangeable shares of no par value of Heritage Oil viewed as a preferred partner.
Corporation, each carrying one voting right in Heritage.
Community relations are a key factor for success in our new Nigerian operations where there are over 90 communities living on the licence.
DISPOSAL The disposal ofour interests in theMiran asset in Kurdistan was We are applying our core values, through Shoreline, in working with the communities within the OML 30 licence and are striving to announced in August 2012.
Shareholder approval was received in December 2012 and the transaction completed shortly thereafter.
The improve their lives in the areas of health, education and environment.
A comprehensive series of CSR programmes have already commenced sale for $450 million secured an attractive valuation for this asset which has a significant further capital expenditure requirement and in Nigeria.
these proceeds were used to partially fund our entry into Nigeria.
During 2012, we spent a total of approximately $971,000 on CSR UGANDA related activities with community programmes focused on areas In January 2010, Heritage announced the sale of Blocks 1 and 3A in where we were operationally more active.
We are looking forward to Uganda by its wholly owned subsidiary, Heritage Oil & Gas Limited having a positive contribution to our new areas of activity.
HOGL, to Tullow Uganda Limited Tullow for $1.45 billion.
OUTLOOK Subsequently, the Uganda Revenue Authority URA assessed that Nigeria is the core focus for us in 2013 as westrive to increase income tax was due on the capital gain arising on this disposal.
production and work with the operator on forward programmes.
We Heritages position, based on comprehensive legal and tax advice, is expect to continue to be very active across the exploration portfolio that no tax is payable.
In order to appeal the URA assessment, with activity increasing in Tanzania and seismic programmes being Heritage was required to deposit 30% of the disputed tax assessment undertaken in PNG.
This activity will continueinto 2014 and is with the URA.
The remainder is retained in escrow in London.
expected to set the basis for future growth for our Company.
HOGL continues to challenge both the URA in the Ugandan courts As always, I am very grateful to our management team, employees and, in accordance with the PSAs, the Ugandan government through and supportive Board for their dedication and contribution to the international arbitration proceedings in London, which commenced progress made by Heritage this past year.
Finally, to our shareholders, in May 2011.
The arbitration tribunal ruled in April 2013 that the thank you for your continued support and interest in Heritage.
determination of tax was outside its jurisdiction, but that there were two areas of HOGLs claims which it will consider, in respect of ANTHONY BUCKINGHAM contractual income tax stabilisation clause protection and breach of CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER other contractual obligations.
29 APRIL 2013 The determination by the arbitral tribunal marks the end to the preliminary phase.
The proceedings will now continue to deal with the merits phase of Heritages contractual claims against the Ugandan government and the underlying substantive Ugandan tax matters remain under appeal in the Ugandan courts.
In April 2011, Tullow made a payment to the URA and subsequently led a claim in the High Court in England seeking compensation for alleged breach of contract as a result of HOGLs and Heritages refusal to reimburse Tullow.
In March 2013, an 11 day hearing took place in the Commercial Court in London.
A first instance judgment is expected during the course of 2013.
