CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY THROUGH THE DIVERSIFICATION OF OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR UNIQUE BUSINESS MODEL, WE ARE SUCCESSFULLY DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer 10 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH STRENGTHEN DEVELOP EXTEND INCREASE LEVERAGE BUILD OUR LEADING OUR GLOBAL OUR REACH THE SCALE OF OUR EXPERTISE ON OUR POSITION IN THE PRODUCT RANGE AND DIVERSITY OUR SPECIALTY AND CAPACITY WORLD-CLASS MENA REGION IN GROWING THROUGH INJECTABLES IN THE US MANUFACTURING THERAPEUTIC PARTNERSHIPS BUSINESS MARKET AND API SOURCING AREAS CAPABILITIES Our performance this year reects the This strong performance was achieved In our MENA markets, we continue to deliver excellent results achieved by our Injectables despite the challenges we are facing in strong sales growth from our leading portfolio business in the US, the strength of our many of our MENA markets as competition of anti-infective products, whilst developing businesses in MENA and a solid performance increases, political and social issues cause our cardiovascular, diabetes, central nervous disruptions and costs increase due to higher system CNS, oncology and respiratory in Europe.
It also demonstrates the strength of our unique business model and our focus on ination.
By continuing to invest in our portfolios.
Our strategy is to continue bringing the strategic priorities we have identied for facilities, optimise our product portfolios new branded generics to market as well as future growth.
and improve operational efficiency, we have innovative, patented products under license We made good progress delivering been able to build stronger market positions from our growing number of global partners.
e have continued to across all our MENA markets.
Acquisitions also contribute to the growth our strategy this year.
W strengthen our competitive position and gain We remain very positive about the outlook in our product portfolio and can bring share in our key markets, develop our global for our businesses in MENA.
We have a long new in-license relationships and additional portfolio of higher value, more differentiated track record of operating successfully in this therapeutic categories.
In 2012, we launched products, expand our manufacturing capacity region, despite the economic and geopolitical 47 oral and 15 injectable products across our challenges and we see excellent opportunities MENA markets.
and drive greater operational efficiencies.
to grow our MENA revenue and profitability In the US, we are continuing to deliver Strengthening our leading position over the medium and long-term.
a steady stream of new ANDAs, with four oral in the MENA region and eight injectable approvals in 2012.
We are Since our IPO in 2005, we have made Developing our global product range successfully introducing higher value, more eight acquisitions in MENA.
We have invested The development of our global product differentiated products to our portfolio over $200 million in capex, expanded portfolio, particularly the continuous introduction including products such as argatroban, iron our geographic reach, strengthened our of new, higher value products, is a key gluconate, phenylephrine and testosterone manufacturing capabilities, developed our strategic focus across the Group.
To achieve all excellent products with strong market product portfolio and grown our sales teams.
this, we have continued to invest in R&D.
In Europe, we launched 10 products Through these investments we have built Weare also broadening our sources of during 2012. a very strong position in the MENA region.
newproducts beyond our own in-house In 2012, we successfully leveraged these capabilities to include alliances with external Extending our reach and investments and our position as the leading partners and product acquisitions.
In 2012, diversity through partnerships regional pharmaceutical manufacturer to drive wecontinued to grow our portfolio through Since Hikmas inception, partnerships have revenue growth in the MENA of over 20%.
the launch of 14 new products and 17 new been an integral part of our strategy for Our performance was strongest in markets dosage forms and strengths across the Group developing a portfolio of differentiated, such as Egypt and Algeria, where recent and 77 total launches across all countries.
innovative and high quality products for investment to expand manufacturing capacity sale across the Group.
has enhanced our ability to meet the growing demand for our products.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 11 STRENGTHENING OUR LEADING POSITION IN THE MENA REGION IMPROVING LIVES......
THROUGH A STRONG COMMITMENT TO OUR MENA MARKETS In recent years, we have been developing and the dedication of our employees our business in Libya, building a strong has enabled us to rapidly rebuild our sales team and good customer relationships.
business and establish Hikma as the 1 In 2011, Libyan political unrest severely pharmaceutical company in number one disrupted our sales operations, restricting Libya.
Goingforward, our Libyan business our ability to operate commercially for will increasingly benefit from our ability most of the year.
We maintained our to leverage our manufacturing facilities market presence with donations of much in Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Tunisia needed medicines and kept our employees and Morocco to export to Libya.
on the payroll during this time.
By providing patients with access to a As the market stabilised, we were the broad portfolio of high quality, affordable first pharmaceutical company to re-enter pharmaceutical products, across a range the market and resume sales operations.
ofimportant therapeutic areas, we are Our commitment to the Libyan market helping to improve lives in Libya.
The responsiveness ofour local sales team enabled us to very quickly re-establish ouroperations in Libya.
COUNTRY LIBYA POPULATION SIZE HEALTHCARE EXPENDITURE LIFE EXPECTANCY 2 2 2 MILLION % OF GDP YEARS 6.0 3.9% 78 1 Advanced marketing statistics, MAT October 2012 2 CIA The World Factbook 12 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Continued In MENA, we have continued our track record as well as to distribute our products in markets of working with strategic partners to in-license where we do not currently have an established patented products, supporting our strategy sales presence, successfully enabling us to of bringing innovative products to MENA and enter new European markets.
Following the strategic investment we increasing patients access to more affordable medicines.
In 2012, revenue from in-licensed made in Unimark in India in 2011, we signed products grew by 12% and represented an agreement with the company in 2012 36.9% of our sales in MENA.
to collaborate with them on the development The strength of our sales operations of 17 ANDAs for sale in the US market.
and manufacturing capabilities across MENA, Increasing the scale of our specialty including a team of over 1,600 reps, has Injectables business established Hikma as the partner of choice in In recent years, we have been rapidly growing the region.
As well as continuing to build on our global Injectables business through a our long-term relationships with key licensors, combination of strategic acquisitions, the we are actively establishing new partnerships.
expansion of existing manufacturing facilities In 2012, we signed seven new licensing & and focused investment in R D to develop agreements for eight products.
Having transformed In the US, we have established a successful the scale of our global Injectables business, R&D partnership with Exela, a North Carolina our investment focus is now on building R&D company that develops and based market share, entering new markets, optimising manufactures innovative and generic injectable our manufacturing capacity, broadening our products.
This has resulted in the approval technical capabilities, developing our global of an NDA for argatroban that we launched product portfolio and continuing to drive towards the end of 2012.
We are delighted greater operational efficiencies.
to have demonstrated the effectiveness of During 2012, we signicantly enhanced this partnership model and we are continuing and expanded our Injectables manufacturing to work with Exela on a number of other capacity in the US.
At the same time we product opportunities.
increased production in our European facilities In Europe, we are increasingly working and made good progress with the re-allocation with third parties, both to enhance our of production across our facilities to maximise portfolio through new in-license arrangements, utilisation and cost efficiencies.
This resulted in a reduction in unit costs, benefiting us across all our geographies.
14 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 The regulatory environment remained Since the MSI acquisition, our strategic challenging in 2012 and many of our competitors focus has been on integrating our sales and continued to struggle with compliance issues.
marketing teams and leveraging our new local Our excellent track record of quality and manufacturing platform.
Now, as one reliability in Injectables manufacturing of the largest suppliers by volume in the provided us with a strong competitive US generic injectables market, we have been advantage, particularly in the US, and also able to build good relationships with the helped to drive growth in our contract Group Purchasing Organisations GPOs manufacturing business.
These relationships were During the year, we continued to focus strengthened in 2012 as we were able to on the development of our product portfolio, provide our customers with a reliable supply through the introduction of more differentiated, of high quality injectable products at a higher value products.
We also placed a greater time of severe market shortages.
focus on the development of global products A core element of delivering our US where a single product le meets the sales strategy is our ability to supply the requirements of multiple regulatory authorities.
US market from our high quality FDA-approved This increases the cost efficiency ofour R&D manufacturing facilities in Jordan, Saudi Arabia, processes and accelerates the speed at which Portugal and Germany.
In 2012, approximately we can register and launch new products 25% of our US sales were manufactured in our across all of our markets.
This approach is overseas facilities.
proving to be particularly successful in the We have recently completed a review to development of our oncology portfolio.
assess the strategic options for the Generics segment of the Hikma Group, which sells Leveraging our expertise and unbranded oral generics products in the US capacity in the US market market.
Following completion of the review, Our presence in the US, the worlds largest we have initiated discussions with third pharmaceutical market, has been a key parties to evaluate the alternative options source of diversication for Hikma since for the business.
we entered this market in the early 1990s.
The acquisition of Baxters Multi-Source Injectables business MSI in May 2011 doubled the size of our existing US business and in 2012, our US sales reached $400 million, over 35% of Group revenue.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW The remediation work is ongoing and we are Building on our world-class manufacturing Continued and API sourcing capabilities committed to working with the FDA to address the issues raised.
Across the Group, we regard We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of quality and compliance across our ability to meet highest standards of quality and compliance as critical to our success.
all of our manufacturing facilities.
As industry In 2012, we have been developing our standards continue to be raised across our geographies, we must work harder every relationships with Unimark in India and Haosun in China to strengthen our API sourcing year to make the necessary investment in our facilities and people to ensure we meet the capabilities.
We have also made a capex investment to expand our own Chemical multiple international regulatory requirements facility in Jordan.
Making these strategic across all of our jurisdictions.
During 2012 our global facilities were investments and developing our own in-house capabilities will enable us to increase our subject to multiple regulatory inspections, as well as audits by licensing partners and access to high quality, reliable API supply for strategic APIs.
In particular, this selective customers.
In particular, our injectables facility in Cherry Hill, New vertical integration is an important element Jersey and our oral solid dosage manufacturing facilities in Amman, in our strategy to accelerate our pipeline of new oncology products.
Jordan and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia were inspected by the US Food and Drug Administration Looking ahead US FDA and passed successfully.
The excellent performance we have delivered At our oral solid dosage manufacturing in 2012 reects our track record of investing facility in Eatontown, New Jersey we undertook in future growth.
Our continued progress in extensive compliance work during 2012, meeting our strategic objectives will support including a voluntary shutdown of the facility continued growth in 2013 and beyond.
during November and December, to address observations made by the US FDA in a warning letter we received in February 2012.
Said Darwazah Chief Executive Officer 16 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
