18 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review I am pleased to report that Hochschild has delivered a robust set of results in 2012 reecting the successful achievement of our annual production target, considerable progress with regard to our organic growth pipeline and, towards the end of the year, the announcement of the exciting purchase of Andina Minerals.
Despite further economic, financial and political difficulties continuing to affect many markets in 2013, Hochschild remains in a strong position to enter a critical delivery phase.
We remain committed to the safe and sustainable delivery of optimised production, complementing our value enhancing growth potential.
STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2012 resource to reserve conversion ratios, as demonstrated by the approval of Annual production target achieved we have optimised our mine plans by Inmaculadas Environmental Impact Overall unit cost performance in line removing resources that although Study in October.
with guidance economic at our stringent cut-off Our ambitious greeneld programme also threshold, are unlikely to be mined at Good progress at Inmaculada and continued in 2012 and I am pleased that present.
These include: resources that Crespo Advanced Projects we have received further positive results necessitate high capex: inaccessible from our Company Maker pipeline, in Excellent results from browneld resources from previous mining particular at Valeriano in Northern Chile exploration core asset resource campaigns: or those that still require where initial drilling testing encountered base optimised further evaluation before inclusion evidence of a mineralised porphyry copper in the mine plan.
As a result we have Addition of Volcan gold deposit to system at depth with significant copper been able to maintain a life-of-mine long-term project pipeline and gold mineralisation, capped by a that is now supported by a more mineralised lithocap.
Drilling continues robust resource base.
I remain positive at the property to evaluate grades and the Strategic progress about the exploration potential of these size of a potential resource.
We have again outstanding mines and their ability The geological conditions at our main affirmed our continuing commitment to to continue producing high value operations continue to be extremely our exploration strategy with a $77 million resources into the future.
promising and during 2012 our browneld budget set for 2013 with almost half exploration results have been significant The development of our project pipeline assigned to the greeneld programme.
with high grade discoveries at all three remains a key pillar of our strategy and operations.
Having previously exceeded all We have always stated that we will look during the year, our Advanced Projects, our original life-of-mine targets, in 2012 for opportunities to create value not only which will increase our production levels we shifted the focus of our browneld from our project pipeline but also from by 50%, made good progress.
Following exploration programme to improving acquisitions that meet our disciplined the Boards approval of both feasibility the quality of our resource base and acquisition criteria.
In this regard, the studies in January, several key the results received have confirmed announcement in November of the procurement, engineering and the potential for continued high quality purchase of Andina Minerals was construction targets were achieved resource additions in the future.
As part of consistent with our strategic model, throughout the year with the expected this work, we have also completed a full providing Hochschild with further start-up date for both projects now set review of our resource base and have long-term optionality as well as increased for the second half of 2014.
We have been able to optimise the geological geographical balance within our extensive also made significant advances with models of our main operations.
Its principal asset, the regards to the projects social development Furthermore, in an effort to improve our Volcan project, is located in Chile, one programmes and environmental aspects, Business review p14-61 www.
com 19 of the most attractive, mining-friendly received that more than off set the 6% rise 2013 promises to be an important year in jurisdictions in the Americas.
The in year-on-year gold prices, as well as the Hochschilds development, as the expected impressive size of the deposit necessitates scheduled fall in production versus 2011. receipt of construction permits for our two careful planning before committing any EBITDA reached $385 million, in line Advanced Projects in the second half will development capital and therefore we with the fall in revenue, as well as the signal the start of a key phase of capital intend to conduct substantial geological above mentioned cost in ation, and expenditure aiming to take the Company and technical evaluation work on pre-exceptional EPS was $0.19 for smoothly to the next level of production.
the deposit throughout 2013 and the full year.
We continue to have Our core strategy is unchanged.
We will are con dent that our experienced a strong cash balance of approximately once again be focused on delivering on professionals will develop its strong $359 million even after the payment for our stated operational targets, begin the potential in the long term.
86.7% of Andina Minerals, as well as just detailed process of assessment at the over $250 million in minority investments.
exciting Volcan project and continue 2012 Overview Together with our healthy operating cash to develop our comprehensive project Hochschild has established a reputation ow, Hochschild retains the exibility to pipeline supported by its $77 million for consistently meeting its annual begin full construction at the Inmaculada budget and further selective acquisitions.
production targets and in 2012 our and Crespo projects in the second half of We retain great con dence in our operations once again delivered, 2013, execute our $77 million exploration experienced workforce to deliver producing 20.3 million silver equivalent programme and, subject to satisfying the operational improvements and ounces.
The San Jose mine in Argentina Companys strict criteria, further capitalise effi ciencies, while balancing increased enjoyed another robust year, with full year on the signi cant range of acquisition investment in the drivers of long-term production up by 3% and can look forward opportunities in the current environment.
pro table growth with opportunities to to an even stronger 2013 following a cost enhance returns.
I am con dent we can eff ective 10% plant capacity expansion.
Outlook continue to deliver signi cant value for Our Peruvian operations continued The Companys production target for all our stakeholders.
their policy of mining close to their 2013 is 20.0 million attributable silver average reserve grades whilst equivalent ounces driven by stable pursuing opportunities to optimise their production from our core Peruvian performance.
For example, the Arcata operations and a continued decline in Ignacio Bustamante mine further capitalised on high silver contribution from our two ageing mines, Chief Executive Offi cer prices to process low grade previously Ares in Peru and Moris in Mexico, off set 12 March 2013 mined material, as well as completing by the increased output from San Jose For more information about the value enhancing Dore project.
22 our operating performance In 2012, Hochschild experienced ongoing cost increases in Peru that were consistent with industry-wide in ation.
This trend is set to continue in 2013 with further labour cost increases and currency appreciation currently forecast.
In Argentina, we were encouraged by the Companys ability to mitigate the ongoing eff ects of high local in ation with increased year-on-year tonnages, further helped by a degree of local currency devaluation.
We expect local cost in ation in Argentina to continue to be high in 2013, but are con dent that the combination of increased tonnage from the capacity increase with further currency devaluation will provide a signi cant off set.
Hochschild reported revenue of $818 million in 2012.
This re ected a fall of almost 10% in the average silver price Workers at Pallancata
