REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Chief Executives statement As the UKs leading multi-channel retailer we have continued to invest to improve our customer proposition in an environment where customer shopping behaviours are changing rapidly.
Argos has been successful in product markets devices exploiting this increasingly popular such as laptops and tablets and homewares, method of shopping.
although this was more than offset by weakness Homebases internet sales and website visits in other product categories, most notably in have seen continued growth, in particular driven consumer electronics which has seen a market by Reserve and Collect.
The Homebase website decline of around 20% in the year and, excluding has also benefited from improvements to the the growth in laptops and tablets, accounted customer journey, including an online decoration for around 80% of the sales reduction in the year.
tool to inspire customers when they embark on Homebases continued market share gains a decorating project.
reflect a robust performance in this difficult The Groups store portfolio remains a critical trading environment.
part of the multi-channel offer.
The stores As the UKs leading multi-channel retailer represent an integral part of the Argos model, Terry Duddy we have continued to invest to improve our complementing the multi-channel offer with Chief Executive customer proposition in an environment where nearly 90% of all sales involving the store in customer shopping behaviours are changing some way, a level that has remained constant rapidly.
Both businesses have expanded product over the last five years.
In Homebase, the choice and services, enhanced store and product mezzanine and midi-refits have enabled presentation and delivered further value for significant improvements in its big-ticket offer our customers.
as well as enhancing its home and decorative offerings.
With around 300 store lease renewals Multi-channel expertise and leadership or break clauses due over the next five years, Home Retail Group has been at the forefront representing nearly 30% of the store portfolio, of rapid advances in technology that have this flexibility gives the Group the ability to brought about a fundamental shift in the way manage proactively the size of its store estate.
Increasingly, they choose to shop online, or on the move through mobile Expansion of product ranges and devices, for pick up in a local store or by home related services delivery.
This multi-channel experience is core The Group uses the strength of its retail brands to what we do and is the reason why we have to drive leadership in its core markets through a relentless focus on developing further our expanding its product ranges.
highly successful internet and mobile During the year, Argos has expanded its commerce channels to meet consumer demand.
product range into childrens and adult clothing We will prioritise future investment into these and gifting categories.
Argos continues to trial multi-channel capabilities to satisfy customers selling third-party products through its website in whichever way they wish to interact and shop and also has around 9,000 internet-only lines with us, including the convenience of immediate which are on top of the 24,000 lines in the product collection via our store networks.
Argos again grew its multi-channel sales Furthermore, Argos own brands have continued penetration, representing 1.9bn or 48% of its to see excellent growth, with the Alba and Bush sales, up from 46% a year earlier.
Argos remains electrical brands now accounting for the second-largest internet retailer in the UK, approximately 200m of annual sales.
with over 430 million website visits during the Homebases exclusive brand strategy, year.
Mobile commerce has seen a rapid rise in together with its differentiated proposition, customer usage to represent 6% of Argos total has driven market share gains for the third sales in the fourth quarter, a threefold increase consecutive year.
Big-ticket ranges have been over last year.
This illustrates that Argos remains upgraded in a number of stores and Homebases at the forefront of technological advancement, market-leading installation services continue with developments like the Apple iPhone and to achieve a customer recommendation rate Android apps and the web platform for mobile in excess of 90%.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 7 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Highly competitive customer offering Continued cost management As a result the Group will continue to plan The Group ensures the customer continues to The Group has a strong track record of delivering cautiously for the 2012 13 financial year.
receive excellent value and choice by maximising significant organisational and infrastructure However, the Groups strong financial its buying scale and sourcing capabilities, changes to reduce costs and improve the position, with a net cash balance as at 3 March particularly via direct import and direct sourcing flexibility of our business, while maintaining 2012 of 194m, enables us to continue to of product.
Cost prioritise investment in the development of our Argos has maintained its commitment to reductions have been achieved in the year multi-channel capabilities to ensure that the being highly price competitive through the use of to mitigate both the level of underlying cost Group will be well positioned for the economic weekly price comparisons, ensuring it maintains inflation and to fund the investment in new recovery over the longer term.
a price position better than the competition on initiatives, resulting in a broadly flat cost base.
its highest sales volume lines.
This is enhanced We will continue to review and challenge our Terry Duddy through Argos Value ranges and WOW offers.
cost base to ensure we maintain our low-cost Chief Executive Homebase monitors its value position with operating model.
an emphasis on key value indicators and entry price points.
Homebase promotes its value Financial strength position through its Value range, best buys, bulk The Group has strong cash flow characteristics, deals and other promotional offers and has with 194m of net cash as at 3 March 2012 seen its active Nectar customer base grow to together with a debt-free balance sheet.
financial structure, together with its receivables loan book, ensures the Group continues to be Acquisitions and joint ventures able to support growth through investment During the year, the Group acquired the exclusive in its retail formats.
use of the Habitat brand, its brand designs and intellectual property in the UK and Republic of Outlook Ireland together with the UK website and three Prospects for the 2012 13 financial year remain of its London stores.
Habitat product will be uncertain as consumers disposable income is introduced into both Argos and Homebase impacted by ongoing inflationary pressure, during 2012. together with low levels of consumer confidence.
In addition, the Group agreed to launch a joint venture company to develop a multichannel general merchandise retail business in China with Haier Group, one of the worlds leading home appliance manufacturers.
The Groups strong financial position enables us to continue to prioritise investment in the development of our multi-channel capabilities.
8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012
