BUSINESS REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW HomeServe is committed to providing a membership service which frees our customers from the worry and inconvenience of home emergencies and repairs both in the UK and internationally.
At HomeServe our values are to put the customer at the heart of everything we do, develop and engage great people who are passionate about taking responsibility and making things happen, combine relentless innovation with integrity and professionalism and strive to be the best in the world at what we do.
It was therefore Richard Harpin disappointing to identify sales and marketing, Chief Executive Officer complaints handling and governance and control issues in our UK business during the year.
Having identified the issues in our UK business, we took immediate action to address the root cause of the problems.
The temporary suspension of our sales and marketing activity in the second half of the year has had a significant impact on our UK customer and policy numbers and the extensive change programme we are now implementing in the UK business has resulted in a high level of exceptional costs.
We believe that these actions were the right ones to take, despite the impact on our reported results.
We have made significant changes to our UK board and management team during the second half of the year.
We have also changed the way We are confident that HomeServe in which we incentivise management and staff can complete the necessary across both the UK and International businesses changes in its UK business and at to ensure that customer service and quality the same time continue to grow metrics have an appropriate weighting.
We have its International operations.
introduced two customer service goals focused on increasing customer satisfaction and minimising complaints.
1 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation and exceptional expenditure, see Financial review and note 5.
2 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, joint venture taxation, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control, see Financial review.
3 Excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles, exceptional expenditure and re-measurement of joint venture interest on acquisition of control, see Financial review and note 13.
