Chief Executives statement Over the last five years we have Todays kitchen involves many transformed Howdens and its variables.
It takes a qualied tter to 8he first reason why Howdens prospects.
We have invested manage the combination of layout worOs well is that the business in depots, products, design, and design, accurate measurement, is focused on the small builder manufacturing, systems, service sophisticated surfaces and smooth and people.
nishing, not to mention the installation of integrated appliances, We have all but eliminated MFIs plumbing, lighting and waste property legacy, and we have disposal, so that everything looks greatly improved profitability, good, works perfectly and conforms adding over eight percentage to all the relevant legislation.
points to gross margin in a recessionary environment.
All of this must be done well, in a way that makes best use of the endIn 2012, Howdens continued to customers budget, and as quickly as outperform the market, and this possible, because the idea of being years trading has started well.
without a kitchen in ones home for a day longer than necessary is too We have grown the business by awful to contemplate.
developing new product and delivering better quality and availability with less At any one time the builder is stock, which in turn has allowed our juggling several jobs for different managers to focus on cash, profit, 10 customers who can change their costs and margin.
plans at any moment, for any reason and of course the weather can We continued to generate more change too, which affects the kind cash, which means that as well of work he can do on a given day.
as making legacy payments, we can continue to invest in the So the builders life is complex and future growth and development ever-changing, and the end-markets of Howdens.
that he deals with are less fruitful than they were only a few years ago.
Why Howdens continues to Buy-to-let and new build properties grow market share are less plentiful.
Landlords are The first reason why our business refurbishing less often, both in the works well is that it is focused on private and public sectors.
House the small builder, because we have prices in many areas have stagnated always been clear that the only or declined, and people are moving way to get a kitchen installed and house less often.
It seems to working is to have it tted by a be harder to obtain a mortgage, professional.
This is even more true especially for first-time buyers.
now than it was in 1995 when we started the business.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 At the same time, we all know that The builder is in business to make our budgets are more restricted, and money and build a reputation, and 8he Howdens model is so is the space into which everything he can only do that if every job is consistently successful has to t. complete and satisfactory, and he because it maOes the builder can nish it on time and on budget.
more competitive than any We should remind ourselves of other offer in the marOetplace what really happens in the kitchen.
So the builder must be able to It is not only a place to cook and rely on having truly local stock eat.
Todays kitchen is also a family preferably next door of everything room, an ofce, a schoolroom, a he needs, from cabinets and ovens bank, a home cinema, a repair shop, to screws and glue.
a doctors surgery, a vets clinic, What the builder buys must be of a travel agent, a rehearsal room good quality.
He cant afford to and more besides.
In this vitally waste time returning things.
It must important room, there are bad days also be capable of being tted and good days, ordinary days and quickly and accurately.
Its not just about our cabinets are rigid, which saves burning the toast.
Its where people days of assembly time.
deal with the big events in life: birth, marriage, divorce, bankruptcy and Howdens also offers the builder a death not necessarily in that order, trade discount, on a condential of course.
basis, allowing him to determine his 11 margin for each job: and we give People need more functionality from good credit terms up to 60 days their kitchens, and the internet helps with a nett monthly account.
them to make price comparisons, but they still dont have any more On top of this, we help the builder time in which to make decisions.
Also, we have all grown less tolerant of poor service.
The Howdens range of kitchens and joinery makes good design and The Howdens model is designed to quality accessible at all price points.
A successful kitchen begins with a good plan.
Howdens has invested It is based on an understanding of in up-to-the-minute professional what is needed in the home and how planning software and in our team the builder works.
And the reason it of over 1,000 experienced planners is consistently successful is because who are there to sit down with the Howdens makes the builder more builder and the builders customer competitive than any other offer in to make sure everyone gets the best the marketplace.
Chief Executives statement continued Everything we sell is easily viewed In each depot we put an by both builder and end-user, entrepreneurial, manager-driven It is impossible to sustain in print and online.
We invest sales team, capable of opening margin without consistently in intelligent marketing and in local accounts, building local offering good, reliable service building the Howdens brand on the relationships, allowed to do their backbone of reliability and service.
own marketing, responsible for their own profit and loss account and Above all, we offer the builder incentivised on local profit.
When we open a depot, it stays Then, we invested in making the open.
When we make a sale, it is model work at scale.
When we make a a stable, focused supply chain promise, we keep it.
with our own dedicated factories delivering well-designed product, Today, 270,000 small builders all and a robust, exible infrastructure over the country hold credit accounts which allows us to control quality, with Howdens, and the service we quantity, availability and cost.
provide is the cornerstone of their business.
For them, Howdens is We also invested in credit not simply a supplier.
We close inactive essential business support in a accounts after 15 months, so we are challenging marketplace.
Last 12 year we added over 20,000 net new I would like to underline the fact accounts.
The total cost of credit that none of this happened by control, including bad debts, has accident.
When we first developed actually decreased to 1.2% of sales.
the Howdens model, we identied what made a depot work well and In the longest period of continuing replicated it.
economic uncertainty that many of us can remember, we must draw The list begins with a 10,000 square the conclusion that not only are our foot depot, with a trade counter, credit controllers efficient, but that not a showroom, and a warehouse our customers want the Howdens to hold everything in stock.
We can offer and they will pay promptly t out a depot for about 170,000. for it.
Our depots have always been in the same sort of places: ones that Above all, we invest in service to are easy for the builder, on trading builders, and it underpins margin.
estates, with plenty of parking.
The In fact it is impossible to sustain rent on such locations is reasonable.
margin and certainly not at We are still opening depots today the levels we achieve without with rent at around 5 per square consistently offering good, foot, and our average depot rent reliable service.
across the whole portfolio is less than 5.50 per square foot.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Two key elements of this service are from the Watford area by 44%, more local depots and a continuous and improved the trading profit 2ew product is critical to ow of attractive new product.
attributable to these two depots by Howdens growth.
Together, Watford and North around 15 of sales were Last year we opened 20 new depots, Watford now have just over 1,000 from new product introduced bringing the total number of depots credit accounts, and they both now in 2011 and 2012 at the end of 2012 to 529.
The value have more time to trade.
We see of being a local business has only this as an investment in service, increased as demands grow on and it looks like a good investment the builders time and the roads for the future.
So we are confident there is scope for at least We are learning more all the 700 depots, and we plan to increase time from analysing individual the pace of our opening programme.
Our Meanwhile our depot pilot in France continuing focus on what we call continues, and it breaks even at best demonstrated practice allows depot level.
each manager to see how his or her depot measures up against the best Back in the UK, our new depots are in the business, and helps managers performing well.
We now have plenty to focus on the many opportunities of evidence to show that when we for growth that exist within their own open inll depots new depots profit and loss account.
13 in towns and cities where we are already established we achieve a All depots are hungry for product, substantial increase in sales, profits and new product is critical to and accounts in that locality.
Last year, if the original depot loses some around 15% of sales were from sales and profit, it gains more time new product introduced in 2011 in which to offer better service to its and 2012.
The fact that we have local account holders and thereby to more product in the business with improve sales per head.
less stock is a very important point.
It results from the combination We can look at the example of what of successful product design has happened in Watford, which and development: constant sales is a representative example of an monitoring: increased manager area where we opened a new inll focus on profit: active product depot.
Watford is one of our original discontinuation: and faster decision- 1995 depots, and so is very well making in which depots are established.
In 2011, we opened directly involved, plus an adaptable another depot in North Watford, supply chain that can deliver just over four miles away, and the quality and volume with shorter outcome was that in 2012, after lead times, meaning guaranteed only one full year of having two availability, better planning and depots in place, we increased sales more predictable results.
Chief Executives statement continued Howdens ability to manage this of our best-selling styles.
In the complexity is a source of significant first quarter of this year we will be :e are harnessing our competitive advantage.
introducing more joinery doors, scale and our access to new especially at entry level.
materials and technologies Successful new product ranges in all product categories build sales quickly, so as new trends We are harnessing our scale to maOe the builder even emerge, the ability to move fast and our access to new materials more competitive becomes increasingly important.
We and technologies in all product saw a good example of this recently categories to make the builder even with our latest Greenwich Gloss more competitive.
Gloss is in high demand, launched 20 new worktops, of which and new technology means that 14 were square-edged, and they it is now possible to source it in are performing well.
Square-edged large volumes at reasonable cost.
models already represent nearly By introducing a gloss version of 20% of all worktop sales, and more our popular Greenwich kitchen at a options will be introduced shortly.
competitive price in Period 11 our Our Lamona appliances are growing peak autumn trading period we market share.
Last year, we sold were able to strengthen our entryone million units of Lamona level offer, grow market share and products across all categories sustain margin growth.
No less 14 At a different price point, but still than four of our integrated Lamona reecting the trend to gloss and the appliances a single oven, a pace of sales growth, the Integrated dishwasher, a fridge-freezer and a Handle kitchen in Gloss White was built-under fridge are now the No.
1 our fastest growing range in 2012. sellers in their category in the UK.
After only 18 months in the market it How we see the road ahead is already our Number 5 seller.
I have only mentioned a few of our Another new trend we have new product introductions.
We observed is the continuing shift continue to develop all aspects to solid colours.
Over 70% of our of our offer, including ooring, kitchen sales now come from white, joinery, hardware, sinks, taps and cream and grey.
The objective, as ever, has taken off, with sales rising from is to continue to improve our service 3% of the total in 2011 to 9% in to the builder.
We can meet this growing At the end of last year, we signed demand because of the capabilities an agreement to secure our supply I have described.
of moulded-skin joinery doors for Last year we also took the the next five years.
This agreement opportunity to ll out our range of greatly enhances security of supply.
joinery doors with a wider range It brings us continuous access at of sizes so that we can supply predictable prices to a key part of the builders routine needs in all our product offering.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Doors account for around 10% of that we see in other periods of the sales volume, but their real value lies year.
Flexibility is designed into our Howdens continues to focus in the fact that they are a judgement manufacturing activity.
We have lots on growth through opening point for price, quality and availability, of short assembly lines, rather than more depots, launching and the builder will quickly read one long one, and we have exible new products, improving across from the basic six-panel working arrangements which mean productivity and increasing door and make up his mind about that we can start and stop individual efficiency all of which the entire Howdens proposition.
lines according to demand without supports margin incurring extra costs, unnecessary Given the scale of our operations, risk and uncertainty for our staff.
security of supply is very important, and not only with doors.
We have Over the last nine months, by also signed a five-year agreement improving our manufacturing to guarantee a consistent supply of operations, streamlining our chipboard of the right quality for our logistics and working closely with needs, and to underpin availability our suppliers, we have signicantly of our products at all times.
increased speed to market of new ranges and appliances.
As I said earlier, a exible and responsive supply chain is This year, we are introducing new fundamental to our ability to deliver procedures in our factories which will new product.
We have, as previously allow us to monitor stock availability 15 reported, invested over 20m in new even more rigorously.
That in turn manufacturing facilities at Howden means that we can offer an even and Runcorn.
These facilities will be better service to all our depots.
fully operational by the end of the As we have often emphasised, first half, so the full benefit of our this service must be underpinned investment is yet to come.
On our The installation and commissioning busiest day of trading in the whole of the new equipment is going of last year our systems handled well.
The largest element of the 20m of sales, and that is well programme is two new cabinet within our capacity.
There is no production lines, one at each factory.
limit on the number of depots we The ability to control our own can support via our sales and manufacturing and to retain control stock management system, and as the business grows is at the heart no constraints on our capacity to of our promise to the builder, which is handle warehousing, logistics, point of continuing guaranteed availability, of sale and management information quality and price.
for a growing business that serves a complex and sophisticating market.
Having control means having exibility.
This is an important point So, to summarise what I have for Howdens, especially since in our said, Howdens continues to focus peak autumn trading period our sales on growth through opening more accelerate to reach twice the level depots, launching new products, Chief Executives statement continued improving productivity and More performance increasing efficiency all of improvement: we continue :e have a clear strategy which supports margin.
to focus on best demonstrated and a proven, cashpractice and the significant generative model that The Rough Diamond project on organic growth that it delivers.
drives a business of worth which we embarked in 2006 to and value for all concerned create value out of the ruins of MFI The economic outlook remains far has been successful.
It has delivered from clear but, as we have already sales, profit, cash, jobs and growth shown, Howdens is able to adapt opportunities for staff, customers, quickly to changing circumstances.
It is We have a clear strategy and a tempting to speculate how much proven, cash-generative model more value it might have added to that drives a business of worth and all of these parties had it not been value for all concerned.
We intend for the recession, which slowed the to maintain both the focus and the pace of expansion but not the extent principles that have served us so of our ambitions.
well as we continue to build the In 2013, it is time to hone and polish future of Howdens.
So we intend to Matthew Ingle continue on our road to growth.
It is Chief Executive not unreasonable to assume that, 16 given the successful extension of 27 February 2013 the Howden concept, and the fact that Rough Diamond allowed the business to become robust and exible enough to weather severe economic storms, that we can look forward to the following trajectory: More depot openings: between 20 and 30 this year, including inll where we already have successful depots.
More new product: we have over 60 new introductions planned across all product categories in the first half alone.
