Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 10 Chief Executives Review Introduction to underlying profit from continuing units drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, further Hunting has again reported a record operations increasing 59% to 128.8m supported by a 6% increase in other set of financial results in a year where 2011 81.0m.
Underlying diluted regions where Hunting operates the Group has progressed its strategy earnings per share from continuing internationally.
The WTI crude oil price to internationalise its product portfolio operations increased by 49% to 57.5p has also been relatively stable throughout enhanced by the businesses acquired 2011 38.7p.
the year ensuring that capital expenditure in recent years.
2012 has been a year by the major energy exploration and of integration, consolidation and Reported profit from continuing services companies has been sustained.
further organic expansion aimed at operations was 85.9m 2011 41.0m These factors have enabled many of maximising the enlarged Groups profit and reported diluted earnings per share Huntings businesses to achieve and margin potential.
Plans to further from continuing operations was 40.0p outstanding operating results.
are also under way as expansion In the year Hunting Titan products and opportunities in new geographic Our results have been delivered against components began to be manufactured territories are considered.
a market backdrop where the energy at a number of Huntings North industry in North America has seen American locations to maximise cost The Group has reported an annual a shift in focus from onshore natural benefits and plans are in place to increase in revenue of 36% to 825.8m.
gas drilling to liquids-focused targets, commence manufacturing in China The increase in business momentum resulting in a 13% decline in the number during 2013.
Hunting Titans sales reach seen in the first quarter of the year, of active onshore rig units in the year.
has been extended to Europe, the Middle and generally consistent demand for This has been partially offset by a 19% East and Asia Pacific, with personnel our products throughout 2012, led increase in the number of offshore active being appointed at our key regional facilities, extending sales opportunities for perforating systems and accessories Group Income Statement into a wider international customer base.
Underlying Reported 2012 2011 Change 2012 2011 Change Huntings efforts to further extend its Well m m % m m % Construction, Well Completion and Well Continuing operations: Intervention product offering throughout Revenue 825.8 608.8 36 825.8 608.8 36 all of its international operating hubs is also producing results.
This includes EBITDA 154.3 102.5 51 144.7 77.2 87 combining sales and manufacturing Profit from operations 128.8 81.0 59 85.9 41.0 110 Profit before tax 123.6 79.8 55 80.7 38.8 108 capabilities of the new acquisitions into our Canadian, European and Asia Pacific markets and also broadening the existing Profit for the year 89.0 57.3 55 62.8 31.5 99 product and service lines offered by Discontinued operations: our UK operations into larger North Profit for the year 0.7 69.2 50.7 American markets where new demand Total profit for the year 89.0 58.0 53 132.0 82.2 61 has been identified.
Diluted EPS continuing operations 57.5p 38.7p 49 40.0p 20.3p 97 Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 11 In parallel to these integration initiatives, With this disposal, the last of its aviation Within the Advanced Manufacturing Hunting continues to increase its entities, Hunting is now a more focused Group a number of product lines still international presence.
Hunting Specialty energy services group.
retain an 11 to 12 month backlog has broadened its manufacturing resulting in expansion plans for the and sales reach into Canada and the The Group continues to recruit key second half of the year.
Advanced Manufacturing Group is personnel in all of its major business planning international expansion with units, strengthening its core The Subsea division will return to new markets being developed in Asia manufacturing, sales, human resources expected profitability following a year of Pacific over the coming year.
and finance functions, with the global re-certification.
Its backlog has grown workforce increasing 12% to 3,866 by significantly with major call off from Our European and Middle East year-end 2011 3,453. clients expected Q2 2013 onward.
operations continued strong recruitment efforts during the year, supporting the With these encouraging initiatives and Our manufacturing and accessories opening of our expanded facility at achievements, Hunting is well positioned activity will benefit from a new facility Badentoy, Scotland and relocation of our as an integrated global energy service in Houma, Louisiana and the Middle East operations to new enlarged group driven by innovation for our offshore growth.
facilities allowing service and repair international customer base.
Hunting has UK and Europe also commenced a greenfield initiative in Health, Safety and Environment A doubling of rig activity in offshore UK sub-Sahara Africa, driven by increasing During 2012 Hunting Energy Services combined with renewed and new supply sales into West Africa and strong oil and recorded 8.44m personnel hours, with contracts, Hunting is optimistic about gas exploration activities in East Africa.
82 recordable incidents arising in the year-over-year growth in this region.
New In November 2012, a new management year.
There were no fatalities in the year facilities for fracking equipment and team based in South Africa joined 2011 nil.
explosives bunkering are in place with the Group and were tasked to develop steady inquiries resulting.
Again, some further sales across the continent and Outlook product demand exceeds our ability to to develop plans for establishing a Our view for 2013 is a slow start with an supply and efforts are underway to solve manufacturing presence in the region.
This conclusion is the issue.
While this initiative will take time to derived from discussions with major oil develop, it marks a further step in the and gas companies, independents and Middle East and Asia Pacific Groups strategy to further expand its OEM clients about their capital spend Both regions expect growth in rig count international manufacturing capabilities forecasts.
Further, order intake in Q4 and both regions will be providing a into new geographic territories.
2012, current backlogs, facility larger complement of Hunting products.
expansions, product introductions and Fracking equipment and explosives In a globally tighter regulatory inquiry levels are blended to conclude distribution will be in place with environment and with an increasingly that 2013 will be a year of progress.
Additional diverse operating landscape Hunting capacity has been placed in Singapore continues to focus on new product Activity levels within our three core with new sales efforts in Australia, innovation and development.
In the reporting divisions, Well Completion, Indonesia, Pakistan and India.
year, the Group integrated its global Well Construction and Well Intervention engineering operations, with centres will be driven by factors within each of The Board is mindful of the geopolitical of excellence being focused at our the geographic regions they operate in: and economic issues which can Aberdeen and Houston facilities.
The negatively impact our markets.
Further, engineering group has a clear pipeline North America the ability to hire train key personnel of new connection products under The current rig count for the US and remains a difficult task inherent to all in development with new WEDGECanada is 11% below this period in the oil and gas industry.
Clients change LOCK and SEAL-LOCK designs 2012.
Forecasts are evenly split between plans, projects are delayed and either continuing or completing testing a rising versus a falling rig count for the competition can become hungrier.
As part of the coordinated year.
Our belief is, with strong oil prices Against a backdrop which is robust and drive to be the independent supplier of prevailing, it will improve modestly where timings remain unclear, the Group choice for premium connection product onshore and remain strong offshore.
is well positioned for further international lines, the Group has sanctioned the Further improvements in drilling and expansion and business growth.
construction of a new development and completions will provide increasing testing facility in Houston.
This is targeted activity and product usage despite a at accelerating approval timescales for lagging rig count.
new product lines and reducing reliance on third party laboratory testing.
Premium Connections will benefit from the offshore demand.
Accordingly, new Elsewhere in the Group, in April 2012 capacity will be added throughout the we concluded the sale of Field Aviation year.
Mud motor usage will lag in some Company Inc, for a total consideration regions, climb in others but will offer little of 7.5m.
growth due to slower natural gas development.
