Chief Executives Review Financial and Business Review Overall the Group has maintained showing marginal revenue growth in a For Pure, the strong growth in overseas its momentum and performed very difficult economic environment.
markets helped offset the impact of well during the year and is now in a the tough UK market and resulted in Financial Review fundamentally stronger position.
growth in revenue to 29.3m 2011: Group revenues for the period ending 28.3m.
36% of Pures revenue came The full year saw excellent financial and 30 April 2012 increased by 30% to from the strongly growing international strategic progress for the Technology 127.5m 2011: 98.0m.
business, with a very active period of The strong growth from both royalties licensing and strong royalty revenue Driven by the strong progress in the and licensing increased Technology growth.
The Group successfully closed very high margin Technology business, revenues by 41% to 98.2m a number of important licensing deals Group gross profit was up 38% to 2011: 69.8m.
and secured many new partners.
Royalty revenue increased by 55% to The unit volume shipment was 63.8m 2011: 41.3m.
Partners chip at the higher end of expectations Underlying Group operating expenses shipments increased by 33% to 325m demonstrating the strength and increased to 69.8m 2011: 53.4m.
units as more of our customers started growing diversity of the SoC design Underlying expenses excluded nonshipping devices 2011: 245m.
These resulted in a significant cash share-based incentives charge jump in operating profit for the of 10.3m 2011: 5.9m, amortisation The average royalty rate strengthened Technology business.
Our technologies of intangibles 2.7m 2011: 0.9m, in the period due to phasing out of continue to be in demand with an a credit on the revaluation of deferred legacy royalty share agreements, active pipeline of prospects.
The consideration of 4.0m 2011: nil, shipment of devices incorporating more extensive design wins achieved are a and a gain on investments of 0.7m of our IP in each chip and chips with clear indication of generally broader 2011: nil.
The operating expenses newer generation IP starting to ship.
and deeper engagements both across included 7.9m of HelloSoft and Strong demand for our technologies customers and the Groups IP families.
The resulted in a 21% increase in licensing remaining year on year increase of 21% As expected, the Pure business revenue to 34.4m 2011: 28.5m.
represents the investments made in continued to be held back during The licensing activity was strong as the underlying business in customer the period by the general economic we built deeper relationships with support infrastructure reecting the pressure on consumer spending existing customers and established rapid growth in the licensee base.
However, this relationships with significant new was offset by strong momentum and Adjusted operating profit for the and diverse range of customers, growth in its international business, Technology business increased 48% across the full range of IP developed which showed more than 50% yearto 39.6m 2011: 26.7m driven by by Imagination.
on-year growth resulting in the division the very strong increase in royalty 3 revenues.
The adjusted net operating operating cash in-ow in the year to Huawei, Ingenic, MStar, Qualcomm, margin for the Technology business 29.1m 2011: 19.2m generated Ricoh, Rockchip and ZTE as well as increased to 40% 2011: 38%.
from the strong increase in Group significant new licenses or extensions operating profit.
This has led to net with existing partners including CSR, The difficult trading conditions have cash resources increasing to 66.3m Frontier Silicon, Intel, MediaTek, resulted in Pure recording an adjusted 2011: 49.4m.
Realtek, Renesas, Samsung, Sigma, operating loss of 2.9m 2011: Sony, ST, ST-Ericsson, Sunplus, loss 2.8m.
Technology Business Toumaz and others.
The Groups adjusted pre-tax profit During the year the Technology The target markets for these include increased by 53% to 36.8m 2011: business continued to make significant mobile phone, TV STB, PMP, tablets 24.0m.
The reported pre-tax progress in its three key metrics: mobile computing, in-car navigation profit was up 74% to 28.5m s New licensing deals, which generate dashboard and industrial enterprise 2011: 16.4m.
short-term revenue and represent a equipment.
The net tax charge was 8.1m key measure for general technology Graphics The Group has continued 2011: credit 2.9m although due adoption to see accelerating momentum in to the deferred tax asset there were s Partner chip volume ramp-up, which design-wins for its PowerVR graphics no UK corporation tax payments in drives royalty revenues technology, which has so far achieved the period.
Due to the profits made over 120 licenses, including many s Growth of SoC design wins, in the year, the deferred tax asset partners that are working on designs which are indicative of technology on the Group balance sheet to be using the multi-processing MP core deployment and the underlying utilized against future UK profits has variants of the Series5XT family.
Over drivers behind future royalty reduced to 18.8m 2011: 24.9m.
100 devices, in development or in generation UK corporation tax payments will only production use PowerVR Series5 commence once the deferred tax Licensing and Series5XT.
The Groups new assets have been utilized.
generation technology, codenamed The active and strengthening The Groups adjusted earnings Rogue, has been acknowledged pipeline of opportunities led to a per share was 11.0p 2011: 7.9p number of strategically and nancially by many key partners as the market assuming a normalised tax rate of leader and has already secured around significant licensing agreements or 26%.
The Groups reported earnings ten licensees with the number of deal extensions involving around 30 per share increased to 7.9p committed SoCs with this family now customers and just under 50 major IP 2011: 7.7p.
This technology was licenses as well as a number of smaller Capital expenditure was 12.3m 2011: deals and upgrades.
delivered to our lead partners earlier 13.5m with the primary element being this year and we have now seen first Among the important agreements, the re-development of the Groups silicon based on this IP from some of there were new partner deals with property facilities in Kings Langley.
Actions Semiconductor, Allwinner, There was a substantial increase in Compound Photonics, HiSilicon, PowerVR graphics technology now has The reconciliation from reported results to adjusted results is set out in Note 2.
4 a very strong and or growing footprint increasing number of our graphics features reserved for the TV market across the three major mobile platforms licensees are also selecting our video IP to migrate into other categories namely iOS, Android and the emerging to be integrated alongside our graphics including mobile phones, tablets mobile Windows Phone 8.
Around 50% of the devices with computing and in car multimedia.
Our partners using PowerVR graphics for our IP shipped annually include our offerings are particularly strong in lowthe Android platform now exceed 14 video cores.
power and size efficiency as well as with eight top tier companies.
This is delivering the required quality.
We have The growing demand for video ensuring strong market share in this secured multiple design wins across technology is driven by content delivery platform particularly as new partners this IP family involving both tier one and and, increasingly, user content creation launch their products.
e. g. YouTube and two-way delivery to the new Windows 8 and Windows of video.
The trend is towards the Connectivity broadcast The Phone 8 platforms we have multiple tier widespread use of the internet for video interest and engagement in the one partner engagements and expect content delivery including both mobile Ensigma UCC family of IP cores a strong play in these areas as they video delivery and the internet-protocol continues to grow.
We secured five launch in 2012 and beyond.
IP TV capability needed in video-onnew or repeat licenses this year with The TV and STB market areas were demand and catch-up TV.
the total number of active partners among the most active during FY now standing at seven.
We also have In keeping with our strategy of 2011-12 with a record number of a strong and growing pipeline of providing leading-edge and marketlicenses closed and as a result SoC engagements and evaluations ondriving technologies to our customers commitments in this segment have going for this technology.
Ensigma we have recently launched the new grown signicantly.
UCC programmable radio processing Series4 video processors offering units RPU support worldwide TV and PowerVR technology has a very strong increased performance and precision radio reception as well as important and comprehensive roadmap to and supporting the emerging ultra HD connectivity standards such as Wiensure its market-leading position.
The resolution displays of 4Kx2K pixels.
Fi, all running on the same silicon complementary ray tracing technology, This enables very high quality and engine in software.
This technology obtained through the Caustic or displaying full HD at the same time is increasingly essential for delivery of acquisition, is on track and will, in due as related information such as social Cloud and broadcast content to home course, further strengthen our offering network interactive pages.
These and also within the enterprise.
Already and add to our competitive position.
technologies are needed with respect we have partner devices in volume to future generations of smart Video PowerVR video decode and shipment using this technology for TV products.
encode families support the latest and digital radio and Wi-Fi connectivity and emerging video decode and encode Display PowerVR I2P and we expect several new partner devices formats.
We are seeing growing FRC deliver image processing targeting multi-standard global TV adoption of these technologies among enhancements for TVs, STBs and other markets to begin shipment during the our partners with a number of new consumer devices.
The convergence current financial year.
licenses added during the year.
An trends are increasingly requiring 5 Embedded processor cores the systems such as Android and other As expected the shipment volume Meta family of processors offers Linux implementations, the trend substantially accelerated during state-of-the-art general-processing towards heterogeneous systems the second half to over 200m units combined with multi-threading, standards and the inevitable growth of 2011:138m.
This was due to the demanding real-time and signalinternet connectivity across the majority timing of new handset launches for processing capabilities.
These of devices, will further drive deployment both Android and iOS in October 2011, capabilities are ideal for highly of higher-end Meta processors in the migration of our newer licensees integrated, feature-rich and cost application processors in a variety from development phase to volume effective systems.
With its extensive of markets.
ramp of their application processors capabilities, Meta technology is also and the usual holiday period demand V. VoIP Since the acquisition of ideal as an application processor for surge.
The ramp-up was also HelloSoft, we have established running the operating system whilst enhanced further by the growth in strong V. VoIP product lines, including also offering the built-in multi-threading, volume in other categories including platform agnostic SDKs.
As a result, real-time and signal processing tablets and mobile computing devices we have seen a number of important capabilities to carry out other key tasks, as well as growing volume in gaming engagements with respect to our VoIP eliminating external hardware.
Voice-over-IP and V. VoiP Video and These features combined with our Voice-over-IP technologies.
This is in SoC design wins Ensigma technology offer a highly part driven by the arrival of 4G Long and pipeline efficient connected processor Term Evolution LTE networks which SoC design wins are the driver for which we believe is well positioned require VoIP on LTE VoLTE an area future partner chip shipments and for many connected devices and the where HelloSoft product lines can royalty revenue growth.
Strong emerging Machine-to-Machine M2M have a strong play.
HelloSoft V. VoIP continuing momentum saw new applications.
We have introduced the technology has now been adopted by partner SoC design wins increase to new MetaFlow family to address these a number of key network operators 136 net of obsolescence 2011: 115. market segments and are supporting for both enterprise and consumer Of these, 60 are shipping or beginning this offering with new and innovative segments with a number of handset to ship, with the balance of 76 still in Cloud-connected client and portal design-wins also secured.
The latter will be the driver technologies marketed under for significant further royalty Partner chip shipments Flow Technology.
and royalties Many of our IP cores integrate Meta Partner chip unit shipments grew These committed devices are processing cores already.
continuing to diversify across i. e. more than 160m, of the annual Growth was driven by increasing sales Imaginations partners and key volumes of our IP shipments deploy in mobile phone, PMP, tablet mobile market segments: Meta technology and we expect this computing devices, TV STB, digital s 43 for mobile phone application trend to continue upwards.
radio and car navigation dashboard.
processors The growth of open source operating 6 s Eight for handheld multimedia selected markets and the adoption of and audio content: advanced PMPs, hand-held gaming Imaginations technologies in those interactive internet connected entertainment, camera, mobile TV markets.
To provide some clarity on services especially Cloud music Pures activities and its strategic goals delivery which deploys Imaginations s 37 for Home Consumer it should be noted that chronologically Cloud enabling technologies: and Entertainment TVs, STBs, DVDs, Pure has focussed on the following audio streaming of content from digital radio and audio, connected three areas: popular mobile devices to home audio, and home entertainment audio systems and speakers.
Pures product line developments and product offerings drove the market from the early days s 17 in mobile computing tablet are part of a careful plan to both and set the much needed agenda mobile computing pathnd and rene Imaginations key to help develop this new market.
s 18 for In-car navigation, dashboard, IP for the home environment, help in This continues today in the form of personal navigation devices the development of complementary supporting and driving the adoption strategic technologies e. g. s 13 for other markets covering green of digital radio internationally.
Imaginations Connected Processor energy, networking, healthcare, These include key markets such as and Flow technology and very enterprise, industrial, amusement Germany, Australia and Switzerland importantly develop selected where Pures activities have been and toys markets.
instrumental in the excellent Pure business progress made.
A key goal is to ultimately Despite the economic environment these strategic tasks very effectively contribute to the emergence in the UK, Pure was able to grow and has directly inuenced the and development of the home its revenues whilst also carrying its development of the market and automation opportunities strategic tasks in support of the overall helped in securing a significant through use of Imaginations Group objectives.
This was driven market share for Imagination.
Over processing, connectivity and Cloud by strong export business as digital 70% of digital radios shipped today technologies.
This is the latest area radio deployment spreads across EU including those by many leading of strategic focus for Pure with and elsewhere and the growth of the brands other than Pure are based technologies and products yet to market for connected radio and on Imaginations Ensigma UCC and be announced.
Several key products were launched Pure product lines have been and 2.
As a first step in helping to drive during the last financial year in line continue to be based on using home connectivity and automation, with the above strategic objectives.
Imaginations underlying IP in Pure has been focussed on wireless The most recent products include the processing, connectivity broadcast audio streaming across three key new agship Sensia 200D Connect, and multimedia and are planned application areas: hybrid internet the Contour 200i Air and the Contour and developed to create supportive and broadcast radio enabling 100Di.
The Sensia 200D Connect technologies and solutions to drive access to global radio stations combines digital radio, internet radio, 7 extensive services from Pure Lounge award and a Gold Medal in the Mail technology, connectivity and processor and Wi-Fi streaming from phones and on Sundays Live Awards.
Other IPs together to address the many tablets through Pure Apps.
Contour key awards include Contour 100Di emerging connected applications 200i Air is Pures first Airplay product achieving 5 stars from TechRadar beyond the radio market.
and Contour 100Di comes with a dock and What Hi-Fi?
Sound and Vision Outlook for iPad, iPhone and iPod as well as magazine, One Flow being awarded Our business has made significant the free companion internet radio and 5 stars in BBC Music magazine and progress to date but the full exploitation music streaming app from Pure.
winning both Best internet radio of many of our key technologies is under 150 in the 2011 What Hi-Fi?
The second generation Highway instill at a relatively early stage in many Sound and Vision Awards and Best car digital radio and audio adapter, markets.
For example, the smart Digital Radio Product of the Year in Highway 300Di launched with Halfords phone market alone is forecast by Australias Sound and Image Awards.
and more recently under an OEM industry analysts to grow over three The new Highway 300Di also won the arrangement via Alpine.
Pure Music, times by 2015 reaching an annual coveted Auto Express 2012 Product of a Cloud-based on-demand music volume around 1.5bn units.
service, was launched in the UK with our strong existing and growing other services and regions coming The Groups investment in developing partnerships across both of the soon.
Other products launched the Flow connectivity and FlowWorld important established platforms, included Move 2500, a new pocket Cloud portal technologies, which form iOS and Android, where we have digital and FM radio and successor the basis of Pures www.
strong presence, and also our serious to the best-selling and award-winning com portal and, in collaboration with involvement in the emerging Windows PocketDAB 1500.
The new EVOKE Mio ecosystem partners, enable services Phone 8 platform with multiple tier one by Orla Kiely Abacus Flower Edition such as Pure Music, is a key and partners, we believe a market share achieved strong coverage in this years strategic activity that Pure is helping goal of over half of the total smart Christmas gift guides and was in fact to drive.
This platform will be part of phone market by 2015 and beyond, is one of Pures best-selling radios over Imaginations licensable technologies a reasonable and realistic goal.
Pures One family and will help to enable the next Additionally our strong presence in the of radios has also been refreshed and generation of Cloud-based products fast-growing tablet market, where the the One Classic and One Elite Series 2 and services across home automation, vast majority of the leading platforms have been updated with innovative assisted-living healthcare, security and are using devices with our technology, new features.
other emerging internet-connected with industry analysts suggesting this devices.
Over time we will be offering The One Classic Series 2 has already market will reach over 300m units by our Cloud enabling technology, Flow, received a highly prestigious What 2015 means this segment will make in its own right, bringing our portal Hi-Fi?
Sound and Vision five star 8 a notable contribution to the is an integral part of the Groups Groups progress.
strategy and focuses on targeting emerging consumer markets that can The favourable transitions in TV STB benefit from a driver and pathnder markets towards smart functionality approach.
This has been successfully where we have many active partners executed in digital radio in the UK with and have seen significant design-win the focus now moving to international growth this year is set to increasingly development.
Our strategy will contribute to our volume ramp-up.
ultimately also lead to complementary We believe that these facts as well as areas involving home connectivity our growing partnerships with respect and the provision of useful remote to our other key complementary Cloud services.
technologies including PowerVR video, The Board is confident that Imagination Ensigma connectivity, Meta MetaFlow remains very well placed for further connected processor, HelloSoft V. VoiP, solid growth based on the strong across several diverse markets, will momentum in and strengthening of create the demand for the Group to its business with the active licensing achieve the target of around 1bn per pipeline, the secured and growing annum unit shipments by 2016. extensive SoC design wins, expected We also continue to see good demand chip volume ramp and royalty growth, in all of our IP offerings which is as well as the potential for Pure manifesting itself in an on-going active to exploit its strong product linepipeline of licensing prospects.
There up, including its Cloud-connected are extensive on-going evaluations and solutions, internationally.
engagements across all of our IP lines.
Despite the current economic environment, Pure continues to showcase effectively and drive some of our key technologies.
This business is expected to see improvements as Hossein Yassaie the international revenues continue to Chief Executive grow and as the economic environment improves in the medium term.
