ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Results overview Within Retail Dispense we made further SUMMARY good progress in improving the In 2012 IMI delivered organic revenue Delivered a resilient set s underlying quality of the Beverage growth of 3%, operating margins of of results in 2012 Dispense and Merchandising 17%, strong cash conversion and Organic revenue growth s businesses, accelerating the adjusted earnings per share of 84.3p, of 3% development of new products at higher up 3% over last year despite currency margins and exiting low margin or Full year dividend s headwinds associated with a stronger increased by 8% commoditised product lines.
operating margins for the Retail Strong balance sheet This was an encouraging performance, s Dispense businesses increased to with net debt of 144m with growth from new products and 14.7% from 13.7% last year.
Overall emerging markets more than offsetting revenues increased 2% on an organic the impact of weaker economic basis, despite a number of low margin conditions in the second half: and good product exits, pointing to a reasonably underlying progress on margins in a healthy level of underlying demand.
number of areas reecting continued A high level of Contributions from our two acquisitions improvements in the quality and confidence in the during the year, Remosa and InterAtiva, differentiation of our products.
were encouraging, with both businesses future prospects of Our Fluid Controls business recorded recording an improvement in margins organic revenue growth of 3%, with the Group lead the and both providing scope for double digit revenue growth in Severe Board to recommend considerable growth over the coming Service offsetting second half weakness years.
that the final dividend in Fluid Power and a at year in Indoor These results together with a strong Climate.
Margins for the Fluid Controls be increased by 9% performance on cash conversion and businesses reduced from 18.7% to to 20.7p.
a high level of confidence in the future 17.7%, impacted primarily by the prospects of the Group lead the Board shipment of a large backlog of lower to recommend that the final dividend be margin projects within Severe Service increased by 9% to 20.7p.
com investors secured in earlier years.
As indicated a total dividend for the year of 32.5p, in the Interim Results, prospects going an increase of 8% over last years 30.0p.
forward are much improved, with margins in the Severe Service order Accelerating our strategic plans book at the year-end notably higher than Over the last few years we have 12 months ago.
Margins in Fluid Power developed a very detailed understanding and Indoor Climate reected pleasing of the end-market niches that offer resilience in the face of weaker the greatest scope for IMI in terms of end-markets, supporting increased growth, margins and long-term resilience investments in emerging markets and in our so-called sweetspot of operation.
new products which continue to improve their differentiated positions.
Group operating review 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ROBERTO QUARTA Chairman MARTIN LAMB Chief Executive For IMI this sweetspot is where we convergence and the prioritisation of Over the period we expect to increase can deploy our differentiated uid assets and resources is the central our investments in both new products, technologies in global market niches theme in progressing both the quality, as framed by the sweetspot and where we already have, or can aspire to, as reected by operating margins, and technology roadmaps we have a leadership position and which benefit growth of the business over the developed, and in greater penetration from a heightened exposure to the medium-term.
These long-term mega-trends of climate investments for higher growth will We have set out an objective to increase change, resource scarcity, urbanisation be funded through a continued the proportion of our revenues in this and an ageing population.
determination to keep winning our sweetspot of operation, which was 58% ination equation, with a focus on We understand the long-term drivers in 2012, to around 75% over five years.
value-selling techniques and on driving for growth, the key requirements for The pathway to that convergence down manufacturing and supply chain establishing barriers to the competition requires an acceleration in output from costs.
We are also targeting a significant and the scope for building market share.
new product development, greater increase in investment in acquisitions, Furthermore, we have established clear participation in the higher growth rmly positioned in our sweetspot, and customer and technology roadmaps to emerging markets, a highly disciplined have boosted our internal M&A resource take full advantage of the new product approach to the allocation of internal accordingly.
opportunities arising from favourable resources, and a step change in mega-trends and to deliver market corporate activity, involving both share gain.
Accordingly, sweetspot acquisitions and disposals.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 13 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Retail Dispense reorganisation The Board remains focused on... IMI delivered organic maintaining an efficient balance sheet As part of the convergence process, revenue growth of 3%, and given the uncertainty over the since the year-end we have concluded operating margins timing of acquisitions, there may be that the majority of the Merchandising periods when net debt falls below business should be divested, and we are of 17%, strong cash current levels which becomes inefficient.
The part conversion and adjusted Accordingly we intend to commence a of the Merchandising business serving share buyback programme over the next earnings per share of 84.3p, the beverage market, contained within 12 months of up to 175m to ensure our Display Technologies subsidiary, up 3% over last year.
that gearing remains at or above the presents a number of synergies with the current level.
Beverage Dispense business, including a shared customer base and significant People and organisation potential to develop a more compelling In support of efforts to accelerate growth and high impact interface between the and deliver against our sweetspot consumer and our beverage dispense convergence objectives, we are making equipment.
Accordingly this beverage a change to the senior leadership team.
activity has been transferred to the Peter Spencer, who has a track record of Beverage Dispense business with effect delivering significant growth, including a from the start of this year.
In 2012, very successful period in charge of the Display Technologies had revenues in Merchandising business, will lead the these product areas of 36m and Indoor Climate Group with effect from segmental operating profit of 8.5m.
7 March, reporting directly to Martin Capital allocation priorities Lamb.
Sean Toomes, who has made an excellent contribution to the Group over As part of our strategic acceleration a long career with IMI, stepped down plans we have reviewed our capital from the Board on 6 March, and will be allocation priorities.
The Group leaving the company at the end of continues to be very cash generative June.
We would like to thank Sean for and net debt at the year-end reduced MOVING FORWARD his significant contribution to IMI from the half-year to 144m, with net Increasing investments in s over many years.
debt to EBITDA at 0.4 times, after having new products and the nanced 105m for the acquisitions We also announced during the year a emerging markets earlier in the year of Remosa and number of changes to our non-executive Increased resources for M&A s InterAtiva.
In the autumn we appointed to accelerate our strategic three new non-executive directors, Our priorities for capital allocation are plans Carl-Peter Forster and Phil Bentley the acceleration of investments for Exploring options for the s with effect from 1 October 2012 growth in new product development divestment of the majority of and Birgit Nrgaard with effect from and emerging markets, the maintenance the Merchandising business 6 November 2012.
They have of a progressive dividend policy, with Share buyback programme s tremendous international business dividend cover being maintained at of up to 175m to maintain leadership experience across a range of above two times earnings and an efficient balance sheet relevant end-markets and I am sure we increase in acquisition activity to support will value their contribution at Board sweetspot convergence.
level as we strengthen and grow our businesses worldwide.
Group operating review 14 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Kevin Beeston retired as a non-executive Outlook director at the end of September 2012 IMI has proved itself to be a strong and and we announced in December resilient business, capable of securing that Terry Gateley will retire as a growth even in difficult markets.
Whilst non-executive director at this years the macro-economic environment has AGM in May.
On Terrys retirement, stabilised over recent months, we expect Phil Bentley will assume the chair of the market conditions to remain subdued Audit Committee and Anita Frew will in the first half of 2013, but to improve become the senior independent director.
gradually as the year progresses, with We are extremely grateful to both Terry increased momentum in the second half, and Kevin for their valuable contribution, benefitting from an improving sales mix considered judgment and wise counsel and the commercialisation of a number over the many years that they have both of new products.
Over the longer term, spent on the Board.
we remain confident of delivering organic Ian Whiting, the corporate development revenue growth well in excess of global director, also stepped down from the GDP, with very attractive margins, as Board in August last year.
the benets from the execution of our IMI has proved itself to strategy fully materialise.
Our ongoing success is fundamentally be a strong and resilient linked to the skills, energy, initiative business, capable of and commitment of our people across the world.
We are again grateful to securing growth even in them for their continued hard work and difficult markets... enthusiasm which have helped to deliver over the longer term another good set of results in 2012. we remain confident of The IMI Way Roberto Quarta delivering organic The IMI Way is our code of responsible Chairman business which sets the very highest 6 March 2013 revenue growth well in standards of ethical business and excess of global GDP.
The Group has been reinforcing the core values and messages of The IMI Way since its launch in 2009.
On 13 June 2012, we held our first global IMI Way Day when Martin Lamb the vast majority of our workforce, which Chief Executive encompasses over 15,000 employees, 6 March 2013 participated in interactive training and engaged in a number of worthwhile projects in their local communities.
