Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 8 Chief Executives Review Our portfolio offers consumers unrivalled choice and provides signi cant opportunities for further growth.
Our focus on realising this growth potential, whilst effectively managing cost and cash, will continue to maximise value for our shareholders.
Alison Cooper Chief Executive Overview The quality of our brands and the growth theyre delivering is Over the last two years weve made great progress in shifting re ected in the strong portfolio gains we made in the year.
our strategic focus to put consumers at the heart of our The excellent performance of our key strategic brands, Davidoff, business and drive organic sales growth.
Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS, resulted in combined volume growth of 7 per cent and net revenue growth of 13 per cent.
Its been a rapid transition and were pleased with the progress were making, generating quality growth from quality brands to Our ne cut tobacco volumes were stable, with net revenues drive sustainable returns.
We delivered further strong results from premium cigars growing volumes by 11 per cent and revenues Our success is built around a differentiated approach thats by 10 per cent and grew Scandinavian snus volumes by focused on applying our understanding of consumer motivations 53 per cent and net revenues by 46 per cent.
to realise the potential of our portfolio and offer consumers the best tobacco experiences.
We believe our approach positions us well to perform in countries experiencing dif cult economic conditions.
We have The response from our people to these changes has been grown pro ts in Spain this year, but the deterioration in the remarkable: a united focus on sales, on building total tobacco economy has led to us taking a non-cash impairment charge brands and on consistently applying our four sales growth of 1.2 billion in the year, impacting our reported results, as we drivers of portfolio management, innovation, pricing and explain in more detail on page 35. customer engagement to deliver high quality sustainable growth.
Building Brands: Key Strategic Brand Success 2012 Results Driving momentum behind our key strategic brands is an Our focus on driving sales has delivered a number of highlights ongoing priority.
In 2010, Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West in the year.
and JPS accounted for 26 per cent of our total stick equivalent Weve increased tobacco net revenues by 4 per cent to volumes: today they account for 30 per cent a great 7.0 billion, as we continued to build momentum behind our performance and one that were building on going forward.
Accelerating the sales momentum behind Davidoff has been Our overall volumes recovered strongly from our first quarter a particular focus this year.
We delivered volume growth of and we ended the year with overall stick equivalent volumes 9 per cent and made excellent progress in Asia, the Middle East declining 2.7 per cent, the majority of which was due to ongoing and Eastern Europe, gaining volume and share in pro table market weakness in Ukraine and Poland and compliance with consumer growth segments such as kingsize superslims and international trade sanctions in Syria.
Driving quality growth Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 9 Were making Davidoff more accessible to a wider range of consumers in both new and existing markets through the launch Excellent growth from our of Davidoff iD, a new kingsize range available in both standard 1 key strategic brands and our innovative GlideTec packs.
Davidoff iD has been rolled out to 19 markets including in Spain, Taiwan, Russia, Ukraine and Global Duty Free.
Weve further developed Gauloises Blondes this year building on the brands strong base in the EU and delivering very strong performances in Africa and the Middle East.
We improved % % volumes by 11 per cent with innovation and portfolio 7 13 management initiatives continuing to support the brands Key Strategic Brands Key Strategic Brands momentum, including the Tactil and crushball variants in France, Volume Growth Net Revenue and new additive free cigarette and ne cut tobacco launches Growth in Germany.
Innovation has been key to the positive performance weve delivered with West and volumes were up by 5 per cent.
We delivered particularly good results in a number of markets in Eastern Europe and Asia-Paci c with queen size, kingsize superslims and crushball variants enhancing the brands pro le in high growth segments.
JPS continues to resonate strongly with value seeking consumers.
We delivered volume growth of 3 per cent with very positive results in Australia and the UK where we grew in both cigarette and ne cut tobacco.
% % Our enhanced sales agenda initially focused on our key strategic 9 11 brands: the priority two years ago was to drive growth in these brands and well be building on our successes.
Volume Growth Volume Growth Were also growing other core brands in the portfolio such as News, Bastos, Maxim and Fine.
These brands have strong heritage and we have a number of initiatives underway to add to their growth momentum.
Building Brands: Fine Cut Tobacco, Premium Cigars, Smokeless Tobacco Our world leadership in ne cut tobacco is a real strength of our business, particularly in the current economic climate.
We know the category and the consumers better than anyone.
Our performance re ects some great successes in the high growth make your own sector in core EU markets.
We improved make your own volumes by 8 per cent: excluding Poland they % % were up 20 per cent.
A number of strong brand performances 5 3 are driving this growth, including JPS and Fairwind in Germany, Volume Growth Volume Growth West in the Netherlands and Ducados in Spain.
We also grew volumes in papers and tubes by 4 per cent and 8 per cent respectively adding to our margin generation from ne cut tobacco consumption.
Our premium cigar division, which includes Habanos and other 1 Volume growth in our key strategic brands is on a stick equivalent basis.
premium cigars, continues to perform well.
We delivered very strong results in emerging markets through our luxury Cuban cigars, with excellent growth in China, Russia and the Middle East and were also driving good growth in premium cigars in the USA.
Limited edition launches continue to support sales and overall, we increased volumes by 11 per cent and net revenues by 10 per cent, with emerging market volumes up 7 per cent and net revenues climbing 16 per cent.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 10 Chief Executives Review continued Our Scandinavian snus portfolio had another great year, building Weve again delivered a strong dividend increase and have on what has been a strong track record of growth.
continued to steadily increase our dividends per share ahead of the growth in adjusted earnings per share.
In addition, we spent Innovation: New Consumer Experiences 528 million during the year on our share buyback programme, Weve made great progress with our innovation pipeline this year acquiring 21.9 million shares.
as we continue to focus on creating new consumer experiences.
Were developing more concepts that can be rolled out across Our People and Our Values multiple markets to drive growth.
Our people and our values set us apart from other companies.
Our values express what our business and our people stand Through our GlideTec pack weve developed an industry leading for, guiding the way we work with each other and with our innovation built around the sociability of smoking, enabling stakeholders, encouraging fresh thinking and new ways of smokers to offer a cigarette with a one handed motion.
The talent, commitment and energy of our This innovation provides smokers with choice and reinforces 37,000 people around the world is inspiring and I thank them brand differentiation.
all for their achievements in the year.
Since its launch last year weve delivered sales of a billion Creating Sustainable Value cigarettes in 17 markets plus global duty free.
GlideTec Weve put consumers at the forefront of everything we do and continues to improve the performance of our key strategic applied that to a portfolio that offers consumers unrivalled brands and strengthen the position of a number of brands in our choice.
Well continue to focus on building total tobacco brands portfolio with strong local heritage such as Lambert & Butler in and consumer experiences to deliver further high quality growth the UK and Fortuna in Spain.
Were also focused on growing share in high consumer growth Well be driving revenue and pro t growth in the EU whilst segments.
We launched a number of brands using crushball strengthening our position in the USA and targeting the lter technology which allows smokers to determine the strength signi cant growth opportunities that we have in our Rest of of the menthol avour in each cigarette.
Weve been expanding the World region.
our kingsize superslims, superslims and queen size variants in many markets and through Gauloises Blondes applying our Our focus on cost optimisation and effective cash management blend expertise to launch additive free cigarette and ne cut supports our sales agenda and by building on the momentum tobacco products.
were generating well continue to create sustainable value for our shareholders.
Pricing and Customer Engagement Our success at building our brands is also about further developing our pricing and excise strategies.
Price-mix doubled in the year to 7 per cent 2011: 3.0 per cent driven by innovation and our key strategic brands.
Weve strengthened our pricing analysis in a number of markets and broadened the price options available to consumers with additional formats.
This has improved both consumer choice and the quality of Alison Cooper our growth.
Chief Executive Maximising the availability and advocacy of our portfolio at the point of sale is an important part of our sales strategy.
One of our centres of excellence is Australia where customer engagement has been integral to the share gains we made in the year.
2013 Priorities High Margin Pro ts Were focusing on these key areas, to continue to drive Strong financial discipline is a hallmark of our business and sustainable sales in the coming year.
we continue to optimise costs throughout the company.
We continue to invest for growth with an additional 200 million Further developing consumer understandings to drive invested this year in brand and product initiatives and in people portfolio strategies to support our sales growth agenda.
Our diligent approach to Adding to the momentum across our total tobacco balancing our investments and managing cost has enabled portfolio us to maintain strong tobacco operating margins at around 42 per cent.
Accelerating the international roll-out of Davidoff iD Maximising Cash Returns Continuing to build our innovation pipeline to develop High margin sales generate strong cash ows that we use to new consumer experiences reward our shareholders and reinvest to support our sales Capitalising on growth potential of our core growth strategy.
Cash conversion was 71 per cent, impacted heritage brands by 0.5 billion working capital movements, in part re ecting the unwinding of a timing difference in our Italian logistics business Strengthening our anti-illicit trade activities across and investment in our sales growth agenda.
This included our market footprint extending our leaf stock duration and new product launches.
Enhancing our stakeholder engagement to encourage reasonable regulatory policies Further embedding our values across the business Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
