Group Chief Executives strategic review Importantly, our distinct business model is driven by the right growth strategy, our differentiated Customer 1st strategy.
Our five differentiators of right markets, right brands, right categories, right nancials and right growth strategy make us the premium choice in the automotive industry for our customers, our manufacturer brand partners, our people and our shareholders.
So, as I reect on the year, it is inevitable that I will describe those five strengths that are unique to Inchcape the strengths that continue to give us a distinct and attractive business model in the global automotive industry.
OUR STRATEGIC ROLE IN THE GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY As the global industry leader, Inchcape provides a trusted, highly professional and well nanced route to market for the worlds leading car brands, fullling an important role as vehicle manufacturers strategic partner in the automotive value chain: importing, distributing, marketing and retailing premium and luxury vehicles and providing motorists with high-quality, dedicated aftersales services.
We operate as a distributor for our manufacturer brand partners in 22 of our 26 markets across the world.
This involves the effective fullment of a wide range of critical functions, including many activities that in larger markets would be carried out by the manufacturer themselves.
Under a distribution contract, we have the exclusive responsibility for every aspect of marketing and selling their vehicles and spare parts in a particular country.
This Delivering sustainable earnings with ranges from specifying market-appropriate vehicles, ordering a high return on capital.
and distributing vehicle and parts stock and setting prices, to advertising and brand management, public relations and customer database management across the entire national Andr Lacroix market place.
Group Chief Executive Critically, it also includes managing the complete retail THE PREMIUM CHOICE IN THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY network, covering all back-ofce functions and the Inchcape is a leading global premium automotive group.
appointment and management of independent franchised Operating in 26 markets worldwide with a portfolio of the dealerships although typically, we would also own some 10-20% worlds leading car brands in the fast-growing luxury and of the dealer network ourselves.
premium segments, our differentiated Customer 1st strategy In city-state markets such as Hong Kong and Singapore, is creating sustainable growth for our people, our brand we operate as both the exclusive distributor and the exclusive partners and our shareholders.
retailer for our brand partners.
Known as vertically integrated Amidst challenging trading conditions, we have delivered robust retailing VIR, this enables us to capitalise on important earnings growth over the last three years and outperformed the margin opportunities.
industry by growing share in most of our markets.
In our four retail only markets the UK, Russia, China and Poland I am delighted to report that our 2012 profit before tax and our manufacturer partners operate as the national sales and exceptional items of 250.3m was a record and up 10% on marketing company.
Our role here is to provide quality brand last year.
representation through our large-scale retail facilities.
Our competitive differentiation is that we provide exceptional Given that many Inchcape new car markets remain below their standards of customer service through the deployment of the previous peaks, this is a strong performance and I thank all my proprietary operating processes of our unique Inchcape colleagues across the Group for their incredible efforts that have Advantage programme.
helped us achieve this outcome.
Therefore, our role as a strategic partner in the automotive value Our 2012 results demonstrate the value of our disciplined chain across five continents makes us unique within the global approach to performance management and re-emphasise industry.
We believe there are five key differentiators that enable that we operate in the right markets, representing the right us to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders.
brands, trading in the right categories which deliver the right nancials.
14 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 V e h s i t c r l a e P s a l e s n o i R t u e BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE RIGHT MARKETS t Commencing construction work to increase car retail capacity The first of those five differentiators that set us apart is that we in Moscow, Lima and Santiago: and operate with a scale presence in the right markets in fact, 21 t Starting to build two new sites in China with Porsche and of the 26 markets where we operate are in the fast-growing Mercedes-Benz.
economies of the Asia Paci c region and Emerging Markets.
It is Our access to new distribution, VIR and retail opportunities fundamental to Inchcapes success that we operate in so many in high-growth, high-margin territories is the reward for our of the worlds most dynamic growth markets.
Asia Paci c and reputation for professionalism, performance and integrity without Emerging Markets together represent 94% of the forecast global compromise.
Manufacturers require wellnanced and highly population growth and 69% of GDP growth over the next five experienced partners whom they can trust to represent them years.
So it is not surprising that these markets, with their effectively and pro tably.
increasingly wealthy and urbanised populations, also represent 80% of projected global car industry growth from 2012 to 2017 a THE RIGHT BRAND PARTNERS period during which these regions will also account for two-thirds We focus on six leading premium vehicle manufacturer groups of global car sales.
When you consider that global car sales are as our core brand partners, which between them deliver around set to grow by 26% over the same period and the global car parc 90% of our pro t. These valued partnerships that form our portfolio the key driver of aftersales and used car revenue by 20%, these of the worlds leading premium automotive brands are with are clearly signi cant gures.
Volkswagen Audi Porsche: BMW MINI Rolls-Royce: Subaru: We derive around half of Group revenue from these high growth, Mercedes-Benz: Toyota Lexus: and Jaguar Land Rover.
This high margin Asia Paci c and Emerging Market regions, which focused core allows for a consistently robust product line-up deliver more than 70% of our pro ts.
This means we are well across the Group.
positioned to continue achieving margin and pro t improvement In short, rather than spread our focus, we choose to truly moving forward.
The importance of our established presence understand the brands we work with and to deliver them in an in these markets cannot be overemphasised and, as such, we exceptional way.
This is an important strategic decision, which continue to make disciplined capital investments to enhance enables us to bene t from ever-deeper relationships and to build our presence in these regions.
In 2012 this included: best-in-class market share and superior customer service.
These t Winning three new distribution contracts Land Rover in Hong are key metrics used to judge an independent distributor and Kong, Ford in Hong Kong and Rolls-Royce in Chile.
All are now retailer: increasingly, therefore, vehicle manufacturers turn to us fully operational, and in Hong Kong we have increased Land to provide a wellnanced and trusted route to market.
Rover volume by 95% after taking responsibility for the brand There are also sound business reasons for our chosen brand at the end of 2011: focus.
First, these are the premium brands that are growing t Opening a new BMW facility in Wroclaw, south western Poland, ahead of the global automotive market as a whole, due to their which has increased our capacity in the market: luxury appeal to the burgeoning middle classes in emerging THE INCHCAPE BUSINESS MODEL HAS FIVE DIFFERENTIATORS Inchcape is distributor and retailer for the worlds leading premium and luxury automotive brands with a distinctive and attractive business model.
RIGHT MARKETS RIGHT CATEGORIES Five distinct revenue streams Over 70% pro ts from Asia Paci c & offering growth defensive mix Emerging Markets RIGHT BRANDS RIGHT FINANCIALS 90% of pro ts from six Attractive growth prospects, strong leading premium cash generation and robust manufacturer groups balance sheet RIGHT GROWTH STRATEGY Customer 1st strategy to capture growth in existing and new markets www.
com 15 t b a i F i r i l t n s a i n D c e a n e d c I i v n s r e u r S a n c e Group Chief Executives strategic review continued markets.
Second, these same manufacturers have the strength make up just one of the five important automotive segments to win share by investing ahead of their competition in fuel that we address.
In fact, for the average UK consumer for efficient automotive technology that appeals to customers in example, vehicle purchase only represents around a third of more developed markets.
And third, the pricing power of these lifetime motoring costs, while repairs, servicing, spare parts, brands helps us to secure and grow our margins, which enable accessories, insurance and taxation combined add up to us to achieve strong returns.
another third with fuel taking the balance.
In those markets where we are the appointed distributor, Our three defensive value drivers, representing approximately an important point of differentiation is our ability to have the 60% of our gross profit, are used vehicle sales, aftersales servicing appropriate brand positioning in every country it is our and the sale of spare parts.
marketing expertise that positions each brand to build a strong Illustrating the role of defensive value drivers, demand for used pricing power and to grow market share.
vehicles during the economic downturn proved more resilient We have worked with our core brand partners for many years in the UK than for new vehicles.
In addition, smaller new vehicle in some cases across multiple continents and have consistently volumes have meant that fewer cars have been reaching the delivered for them.
This is how we have retained and built upon used vehicle market, which has driven up our margins in this these deep and long-standing relationships, enabling key category.
manufacturers to trust Inchcape with their brand stewardship This is not to say that used vehicles are exclusively part of on which we build to create superior customer value and a defensive strategy.
The evolutionary stage of many of the outstanding levels of customer service.
emerging states where we operate means that there is not yet a scale market for used vehicles.
Clearly, such markets will develop A leading example of a key brand relationship is that with Toyota, with whom we have now partnered for 45 years on multiple and this presents us with a significant future growth opportunity, which we intend to seize.
levels and across several continents.
Of these, our Hong Kongbased distribution business, Crown Motors, was the first company Another key defensive profit stream is aftersales servicing, which in the world to be appointed distributor of all the Toyota Groups delivers approximately half of the Groups profits.
The margins in main brands.
This is building on a performance that is this area are very attractive, which makes territories where we exceptional by any measurement, and which includes 21 have built market share over a number of years particularly consecutive years of market leadership.
In 2012, we yet again profitable for us.
In Hong Kong, for example, 33% of the existing increased Toyotas market share in the territory.
This contributed vehicles on the road are brands we distribute, amounting to to Crown Motors being presented with the Toyota Triple Crown close to 140,000 units.
This illustrates how a ourishing aftersales Award for the 21st year in a row, which rewards being number business enables even relatively small markets to deliver large one in passenger cars, in commercial vehicles and in the market profits for us.
It is for such reasons that our distribution marketing teams THE RIGHT CATEGORIES continue to focus on customer contact and retention The range of categories in which we operate gives us a healthy programmes, both up to and beyond warranty expiry.
And diversity of profit streams, which we classify into what we call in our retail operations, rigorous sales processes are constantly growth and defensive value drivers.
This approach means that, enhancing our performance through the daily capture of no matter the state of health of an individual market place, we customer metrics including aftersales bookings, hours sold have an appropriate balance of offerings to meet its needs and and workshop productivity.
In addition, we run innovative generate profits.
aftersales initiatives and call centre programmes to capture share of the servicing market that is ahead of our competitors, Our two growth streams which represent some 40% of our gross consistently measuring their effectiveness so that we can focus profit are new vehicle sales and finance and insurance increasingly on the best means of maximising customer products F&I.
Clearly, new vehicle sales are the heart of our retention.
Such initiatives contribute strongly to the success business, but it is fundamental to our business model that these of our aftersales activities.
TRADING ACROSS THE RIGHT CATEGORIES PROVIDES WELL UK MOTORING COSTS BREAKDOWN DIVERSIFIED PROFIT STREAMS Cars, vans and motorcycle purchase 33% Inchcape has a number of significant addressable automotive Repairs, servicing, spare segments beyond new vehicles.
The diversity of our profit streams parts and accessories 13% coupled with a disciplined focus on costs has enabled the Vehicle insurance and taxation 18% Group to deliver sustainable earnings growth since 2009.
Petrol, diesel and other oils 32% Other motoring costs 4% 59.9bn See online www.
com yearinreview2012 ONS data 2009 16 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE RIGHT FINANCIALS THE RIGHT GROWTH STRATEGY Inchcapes strong financial success, which has seen consistent None of the various initiatives and successes I have outlined and sustainable growth in all key metrics in the last three years, here would have been possible without the underpinning owes much to the agility we gain thanks to our relatively low strength of our Group-wide Customer 1st strategy, which places xed costs.
the customer right at the heart of our business worldwide, as we both strengthen our existing operations and expand our Group I have already referred to the record level of profit before tax selectively in high margin, high growth areas.
This was partially due to several years of strong discipline on costs, which has seen Inchcape maximise The automotive industry is not widely recognised for the quality the benets of its exible cost structure to strip out 124 million of its customer service, so the fact that we are single-mindedly in operating costs before ination since 2008, which represents focused on being the worlds most customer-centric automotive a reduction of 18%.
We have also built on our defensive profit group is our number one source of competitive advantage.
The streams since 2007 to deliver a consistently strong operating profit key tool that we use to ensure that every customer receives margin that at 4.3% in 2012 is 1.2ppt ahead of 2009, marking yet consistently superior customer service is our proprietary Inchcape another year of improvement.
Advantage programme, first launched in 2007 and consistently rened and enhanced every year since then.
Taking tough decisions early regarding under-performing sites and headcount, along with a strong ongoing focus on day-toIn each of our sites worldwide, Inchcape Advantage continues day cash discipline, has been an important part of the Inchcape to drive all the performance management disciplines that are productivity strategy of recent years.
These decisive actions have vital to the constant year on year improvement that we continue enabled us to maintain our investment programme in strategic to deliver unique insights into customer behaviour and trends, initiatives, which ensures we are well placed to take advantage for example, that enable us to carry the optimum amount of the of future opportunities.
We have also achieved a strong return on capital employed, Inchcape Advantage is a core enabler of our Customer 1st strategy.
First, to strengthen the performance of our existing standing at more than 22%.
This is largely due to the comparatively low level of xed capital tied up in our distribution assets by delivering a superior value proposition that helps us constantly to improve market share in both vehicle sales and activities, which deliver around two-thirds of Group profits.
And second, to help us seize expansion opportunities We have delivered strong earnings growth over the last three in the premium and luxury segments by leveraging our brand years, a commendable performance during a time of enormous partner relationships based on outstanding service and challenge and turbulence in our market place.
In 2012, our basic satisfied customers.
adjusted earnings per share rose to 39.7p, up 12% on last year.
Naturally, the implementation of this strategy is rigorously Importantly, our business model is highly cash-generative.
To do so, we use the strong operational discipline balance sheet is therefore very strong, with net cash of 276.2m.
that results from our focus on what we call Inchcapes Top Five At the end of 2012, our net cash position was better than Priorities.
We ensure that at all times we have a balanced focus expected as we deferred some capital expenditure to 2013, between commercial and cash initiatives.
benefited from favourable phasing in our working capital and maintained our strong controls on cash.
Our strong financial Our two key commercial priorities are to increase market share position gives us the opportunity to continue our investments and aftersales, enabling us to grow our revenues at a rate that to support organic growth as well as consider opportunities is ahead of our competitors.
Responsibility for these areas resides to maximise shareholder value creation.
chiey at a local level, where our empowered teams use innovative marketing to drive customers into our showrooms and service centres and once there, to delight them with an outstanding customer experience.
INCHCAPE DELIVERS FOR ITS BRAND PARTNERS 4.0% Vehicle manufacturers trust Inchcape with brand stewardship and we build upon 3.0% this to create superior customer value and outstanding levels of customer service.
One such example of the strength of our brand partner relationships is in Australia where 2.0% Inchcape has been the distributor for Subaru vehicles since 1992.
Our expert marketing teams have positioned Subaru as a premium 1.0% vehicle brand in Australia and we have taken market share from c. 1% in 1992 to 3.9% in 2012.
com 17 1.3% 2.0% 3.4% 3.6% 3.9% Group Chief Executives strategic review continued And our three cash initiatives, which aim to grow our pro t THE RIGHT FUTURE and operating cash faster than our revenue, are to improve Inchcape is a company that is focused on pro table growth our margins, to control our working capital and to be highly for its brand partners and shareholders.
selective on our capital expenditure investments.
Our Top Five We are uniquely placed to fully leverage the opportunities ahead Priorities are fully integrated in our Group-wide performance of us as a highly professional and wellnanced route to market management processes.
for the worlds best car brands in what I consider to be the worlds Our decentralised organisation plays an important role most exciting and dynamic industry.
as our managers across the world have high levels of We operate with a distinctive and attractive business model empowerment that they can wield at a local level.
Under in an industry with considerable growth prospects.
We have scale this model, a clear set of policies are provided centrally and operations in the right markets, with more than 70% of our trading implemented locally, in a way that takes advantage of high pro t coming from Asia Paci c and the Emerging Markets.
We levels of local market understanding paired with our deep operate in the right categories, with a healthy balance of five knowledge of our manufacturer partners brands.
Our glo-cal growth and defensive value drivers.
We distribute and retail the operating model provides global scale and local agility.
right brands in the premium and luxury sector, which continues Our glo-cal organisational model is enabled on a daily basis to outperform the industry.
We have the right nancials with strong by our Group-wide focus on performance management with cash generation, a robust balance sheet and high returns on rigorous monitoring across a range of operational and customer capital employed.
We are convinced that we pursue the right metrics.
This performance management discipline is deeply growth strategy based on a differentiated Customer 1st ingrained both centrally and locally, in breadth and in depth, approach combined with a strong operational discipline.
and we consider this to be fundamental to the Groups We therefore believe that Inchcape is indeed the premium operational ef ciency.
choice in the automotive industry for our people for whom We drive performance management with industry leading we offer an exciting work environment: for our brand partners for whom we provide trusted brand stewardship and growth: for our processes.
This gives us the opportunity to make well informed decisions quickly as we leverage both a comprehensive set of customers for whom we provide a superior customer experience: and for our shareholders for whom we provide sustainable performance management processes and the accuracy of our performance management tools.
Against a challenging backdrop, the Group has delivered pro table growth in the last three years, growing revenue ahead of our competitors and growing pro t ahead of revenue.
During this period, our Group revenue has grown on average by c. 3% and operating pro t has grown on average by c. 14% per annum.
Margins are up 1.2ppt over this same three year period.
I believe that this consistent performance demonstrates Andr Lacroix, the strength of our business model, the effectiveness of our Group Chief Executive Customer 1st strategy and our operational discipline just described.
We are con dent moving forward in the Groups www.
com reportingcentre earnings growth potential as Inchcape is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the exciting growth prospects in the global automotive market.
INCHCAPE ADVANTAGE OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE NET PROMOTER SCORE NPS SALES AND SERVICE Customer service is our number one competitive advantage.
190 160 Not only does it enable the strengthening of our existing assets 150 through improved market share and aftersales service retention, 170 it also facilitates expansion opportunities as we leverage our 140 150 global brand partner relationships.
Inchcape Advantage, our 130 unique Group-wide programme to deliver a consistently superior 130 customer experience at every stage of the customer journey, 120 which is now in its sixth year, lies at the heart of our strategic 110 110 commitment to customer-centric operational excellence.
Its 90 100 proprietary processes drive the organic growth of our business and create strong relationships with our brand partners.
Sales NPS LHS Service NPS RHS See online www.
com yearinreview2012 Scores re-based to 100 18 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Jan-09 Apr-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12
