Informa plc Chief Executives Review Peter Rigby Chief Executive Over the last twelve years, Informa has steadily evolved attributed to disposals and a further deliberate cut in from being a relatively cyclical business, heavily geared to conference and training volume, as we focus on building small conferences, into a broad based, highly resilient large event exposure.
However, it was also a tough year for business-to-business media group.
We believe we now have the corporate training business and this did ultimately drag an attractive balance of subscription publishing revenue on the divisional performance.
and face-to-face event revenue, both with good long-term We invested a total of 151.5m in acquisitions through the growth prospects.
Digital, must-have niche information year, the largest of which was MMPI Canada Inc. MMPI.
products, delivered flexibly into client workflows enrich the This is the countrys largest exhibition and conference knowledge base, improve decision making and ultimately company with a portfolio that takes Informa into new drive return-on-investment for our customers.
Similarly, sectors such as art, crafts, and interior design.
We see further leading exhibitions provide an increasingly rare platform growth potential from its existing portfolio but also good for live interaction across global business communities, opportunities to both geo-clone some of its brands into helping to cultivate new relationships, promote the latest other markets, whilst also taking some of our other Informa industry developments and stimulate transactions.
events into the Canadian market.
Once more, in 2012, our Academic Information AI division Another key acquisition for us this year was Zephyr Associates, grew its revenue and operating profits, underlining the Inc. Zephyr in October.
This is a very typical PCI business, defensive growth characteristics of this business.
It had comprising digital subscriptions with high renewal rates, high another strong end to the year, despite the absence of any margins and strong cash flow.
It fits nicely alongside Informa major archive deals similar to those that boosted profits in Investment Solutions within Informa Financial Information 2011.
The Professional and Commercial Information PCI IFI and we think there will be some attractive synergies division saw revenues decline but profits grow, reflecting from integrating and cross selling the product sets.
This improvements in its mix and the full year benefit of cost should ensure we maintain our strong recent record of returns initiatives implemented in 2011.
We were very active in cutting from bolt-on acquisition activity.
The deals we completed in out low quality products from the PCI portfolio to improve its 2011, which included the Brazilian exhibitions businesses, long-term profile, mainly in areas such as advertising, delivered a return on invested capital of 12% last year, consulting, and one-off reports.
Similarly, in Events and comfortably ahead of our cost of capital.
Training, the decline in revenue and profit can largely be 04 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc Informa continues to adapt to the changing demands of our customer base and the markets in which we operate.
This was WE BELIEVE WE NOW very evident through 2012, as we took firm action in some of our operations to improve long-term prospects, in some cases even exiting profitable products where we felt the structural HAVE AN ATTRACTIVE risks were rising.
None of these decisions are taken lightly but we are resolutely focused on improving the quality of group BALANCE OF SUBSCRIPTION earnings, with particular reference to our four key strategic business drivers.
PUBLISHING REVENUE HIGH QUALITY SUBSCRIPTION INCOME Our publishing businesses are dominated by subscription AND FACE-TO-FACE assets with high renewal rates, where customers generally pay us twelve months in advance.
This provides strong EVENT REVENUE, BOTH visibility on revenue and allows the businesses to essentially fund themselves, with minimal external capital required.
It is a uniquely attractive model and, hence, we have seized any WITH GOOD LONG-TERM opportunities to grow our subscription exposure further, both organically and through acquisitions like Zephyr.
In GROWTH PROSPECTS 2012, 38% of Group revenue and 67% of publishing revenue was from subscription products.
In the AI division, renewal rates on journals are over 95% and usage continues to grow by a double-digit percentage year-on-year, reflecting the must-have nature of the content.
We launched eight new journals in 2012 and added 12 society journals to the portfolio.
The latter are typically lower margin than journals we own outright, but add breadth to our portfolio and help penetrate the customer base further.
PCI generated 80% of its 2012 revenue from subscription products, which are spread across our core industry sectors.
Renewal rates on average are a little lower than Subscription products AI at 78%, reflecting a more fluid end-customer base and mixed product set.
DIGITAL EXCELLENCE 38% We pride ourselves on our digital expertise, which runs deep of Group Revenue across all our businesses.
We see this as a major differentiator to some of our peers, with the vast majority of our products having already successfully navigated the transition from analogue to digital.
Most have been major beneficiaries, either on the cost side, or in generating incremental revenue.
Even in our conferences and exhibitions, by design a face-to-face medium, digital technology is deeply engrained with social media now a powerful tool for marketing pre-event and interacting during an event.
We continue to invest in digital innovation, both in generating new, valuable digital content but also in platforms to better analyse, interpret and customise this information.
A good example is the investment in T&F Online, our re-launched academic platform which carries all our digital academic content.
Its customer friendly interface, rich, searchable content and smooth workflow have led to a big jump in See High Quality Subscriptions, page 12 usage of our content and also facilitate more of our customers moving to digital-only subscriptions.
See Digital Exellence, page 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 05 5 Informa plc Chief Executives Review CONTINUED At PCI, we made similar platform investments in 2012, with notable successes such as Cityscape Qatar and Vitafoods most significantly the re-launch of Datamonitor Healthcare South America.
The acquisition of MMPI in Canada has further Knowledge Centre.
This client-led development has made bolstered our exhibition roster, with 45 events in total within our pharmaceutical and healthcare research and analysis its portfolio, including Construct Canada, the One of a Kind clearer, richer and more responsive, ensuring customers craft fairs and IDS, the large interior design industry exhibition.
gain a path to knowledge, not just content.
We now have GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION a single portal for previously separate subscription services, Finally, we continue to expand our geographic footprint, which is highly flexible and allows us to track usage closely with a particular emphasis on increasing our emerging in order to identify and develop new offerings and upsell markets presence.
In 2012, 18% of revenue was generated where appropriate.
Early signs are encouraging, both in terms in emerging markets, our largest regions being the Middle of revenue and client feedback, and we look forward to fully East 6% of revenue and Latin America 4% of revenue.
reaping the benefits of this investment in 2013 and beyond.
Our leading consumer business, Verdict has taken a similar Across our three divisions, the Events and Training business client-centric approach in building its new Knowledge Centre, has the largest exposure to emerging markets, at 27% of which will launch in 2013 using the framework employed divisional revenue.
This reflects the unique role of exhibitions for Healthcare.
Verdicts clients will benefit from a real in providing a platform for corporates to enter new markets.
transformation in the way retail market intelligence is The acquisitions we made in Brazil in 2011 helped to boost our provided.
News, data and analysis will be integrated for the presence this year, with good growth across their existing first time, and previously hard-to-access data brought to life portfolio combined with several new launches.
With the major Our AI division currently generates about 14% of its revenue retail sectors represented through dedicated channels and from emerging markets, with India, China and Taiwan its most available through mobile and tablet technologies, the new important territories.
We expect its presence to grow, as higher Verdict service will enhance retention rates and drive new education infrastructure and local R&D investment expand rapidly.
PCI currently has the lowest emerging market penetration, We also expect to generate revenues from our Chinese accounting for 8% of its revenue.
Some of its products are healthcare database in 2013.
This is a unique proposition, less suitable for local adaptation but others should become and an exciting product suite is in development for which increasingly relevant as industries become more established we expect demand to be high.
Through on-the-ground in these regions.
Our Chinese healthcare initiative will help partnerships we will collate and analyse non-classified patient drive revenue significantly in this direction.
level data drawn directly from Chinese healthcare institutions.
Our involvement in the project benefits directly from our DIVISIONAL REVIEW expertise in interpreting vast amounts of digital data and Group revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 declined commercialising meaningful product from it.
by 3.4% to 1,232.5m, reflecting a combination of disposals Robbins Gioia and European Conference businesses and RESILIENT EVENTS proactive product pruning.
We began a process of rebalancing our events portfolio away from smaller conferences towards large events over On an organic basis, revenue decreased by 2.0%, with this seven years ago when we acquired IIR.
In periods of decline mainly attributable to deliberate rationalisation buoyant economic activity, small conferences can grow of marginal products in the PCI and Events and Training strongly but revenues are inherently cyclical, particularly divisions.
The organic revenue decline across Publishing where conferences are local and one-off in nature.
This was 1.2% and Events and Training 3.0%.
was the reason we sold some of our European local Adjusted operating profits were 349.7m, up 4.0% on 2011, language Conference businesses through the year, aided by the increased focus on high quality, high margin in Austria, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
product, a strong management focus on costs and a full Our focus is now on building annual events, where customers year of savings from the integration of Datamonitor into return each year to engage with a community, particularly Informa Business Information IBI.
This pushed the where there is international reach.
Large B2B exhibition adjusted operating margin 200 basis points higher from 26.4% revenue, which is predominantly generated through selling in 2011 to a record 28.4% in 2012.
Organic adjusted operating stand space, is akin to subscription income, with customers profits increased by 2.8%, with Publishing growing by 4.7% booking and paying in advance, sometimes more than a year and Events and Training declining 1.4%, the latter impacted ahead for a prime slot at leading events.
This is a much higher by the performance of our corporate training business.
quality of earnings, in our view.
Statutory operating profit decreased to 124.4m 2011: In total, we now have over 250 events we class as large 130.3m, resulting principally from the loss on disposals events, representing 44% of Events and Training revenue.
recognised of 27.5m and the impairment of 80.0m in the We launched or geo-cloned a total of 17 events in 2012, Half Year in relation to our European conference portfolio.
06 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc Academic Information AI 2012 2011 Actual Organic IN 2012, 18% OF REVENUE m m % % Revenue 340.3 323.6 5.2 2.4 WAS GENERATED Adjusted Operating Profit 126.1 116.2 8.5 4.8 IN EMERGING MARKETS Adjusted Operating Margin % 37.1 35.9 The AI division, which produces books and journals for university libraries and the wider academic market, performed very well once again, delivering organic revenue and adjusted operating profit growth despite a challenging funding backdrop amongst its customer base.
It now represents 28% of Group revenue and 36% of Group adjusted operating profit.
Organic revenue growth for the year was 2.4%, ahead of the run-rate at Q3 after a very strong Q4 trading period.
This was particularly impressive given it had a very tough comparable period from Q4 2011, when a large archive deal was secured and there were also two additional invoicing days prior to year-end in several key territories.
The late surge in 2012 was fuelled in particular by strong book sales in the US and a number of emerging markets, where purchasing patterns evened out after an uncharacteristically weak September.
Adjusted operating margins increased by 120 basis points to 37.1%, reflecting further progress on operational efficiencies, coupled with increased demand for online products, both on the journals and the books side of the business.
The further investment made in our online platform reaped early dividends, with overall site visits 60% higher in 2012 and Emerging Markets full-text usage of our journals up 16% year-on-year.
There is also growing demand for its book content via third party online platforms, with good growth in individual sales via Amazon Kindle, Google and Apple.
18% of Group Revenue In total, AI published nearly 4,000 new book titles in 2012 and now offers some 44,000 titles in electronic format.
It also published eight new journals through the year, taking the total journal portfolio to 1,676 titles.
This list is geared towards Humanities and Social Science subject areas, where we are now the largest publisher globally, underpinning the resilience of the business.
A number of bolt-on acquisitions in the academic space were completed in 2012, notably Focal Press and the Hodder academic book list.
Whilst relatively small scale, our Academic business has the ability to integrate such deals into its established platform quickly, often extracting valuable cost and revenue synergies and, hence, delivering high levels of return.
These acquisitions also help stimulate ideas and collaboration to develop new products and a number of interesting launches are scheduled for 2013.
See Resilient Events, page 16 Perhaps the most exciting of these is South Asian Culture and History Archive SACHA, a unique, vast online See Geographic Expansion, page 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 07 Informa plc Chief Executives Review CONTINUED archive of South Asian history, encompassing five million price discussions.
Despite this, we did see overall growth in our pages of valuable research and teaching materials, with key accounts and renewal rates across IBIs product portfolio in th th documents ranging from the 18 to the mid-20 Century 2012 remained similar to 2011, underlining the high quality, niche www.
nature of the information being supplied and flexible approach to platform delivery and workflow integration.
The Finch Report was published in June and underlined the important role of publishers in the academic journal value While the trading backdrop was challenging, the headline chain both historically and in the future.
The process for PCI revenue numbers are more a reflection of deliberate implementing some of its recommendations remains unclear management action taken through 2012 to improve the but we broadly support its ambitions to widen access to long-term profile of the division.
This included an exit from research without compromising on quality.
In recent years, a number of volatile, low quality IBI products where future we have steadily built our portfolio of open access journals growth and margin potential were perceived to be weak or and we have plans for further launches and initiatives in 2013. where we anticipate structural challenges ahead.
This led to an exit from certain standalone advertising-driven products Professional and Commercial Information PCI such as Review and International Freight Weekly and various consulting businesses.
We also took the decision to merge 2012 2011 Actual Organic Datamonitor Business Insights low-value, content-light m m % % one-off reports into our revamped Knowledge Centres to Revenue 356.6 370.5 3.8 4.4 encourage subscriber uptake.
In aggregate, products that Adjusted Operating were proactively closed through the year generated close Profit 120.7 114.0 5.9 4.6 to 20m of revenue at PCI on an annualised basis, hence Adjusted Operating explaining the divisional organic revenue decline.
Margin % 33.8 30.8 The re-evaluation of our portfolio is a continuous process, as we respond to the demands of our customer base and wider The PCI division delivers high value proprietary content to industry trends, while seeking to optimise the potential a number of industry verticals including the healthcare, returns from our asset base.
The decisive action we took last pharmaceutical, financial services, maritime, commodities, year, whilst having a short-term negative drag on revenue, telecoms, insurance and legal sectors.
The division now leaves PCI in a stronger position in 2013.
Advertising, our most accounts for 29% of Group revenues and 35% of adjusted volatile revenue stream, represents just 5% of PCI.
Another illustration of our pro-active approach is the internal Both IBI and IFI faced testing market conditions in 2012.
The transfer of control of businesses where we feel it could help financial services industry continues to downsize as banks improve growth prospects.
In 2013, this will see the Medical adapt to tough new regulatory measures designed to prevent Books business within PCI move over to AI, boosting revenue another crisis.
Within IFI, this has had an impact on Informa at the latter by over 6m.
Global Markets, which sells fixed income and currency information via desktop intermediaries.
IFIs other businesses Despite revenue contraction through 2012, PCIs adjusted have proved resilient, reflecting their niche focus and leading operating profit grew, both at a headline level and organically.
For example, EPFR, an emerging market This partly reflects the full year impact of Datamonitor fund flow and asset allocation data service, had another integration synergies but a number of businesses also excellent year with revenues up over 40% in 2012.
IFI profits reported strong margin progression, including Citeline, were also boosted by the acquisition of Zephyr in October.
CPDCast, Prime, Pharma Projects and Phasic.
As a This high margin, digital subscription business provides predominantly digital subscription business, 89% of PCIs analytical software to fund managers and financial products were delivered digitally in 2012, we see the intermediaries to help analyse funds, portfolio manager potential for further margin upside in years to come, although performance and investment style.
It is being merged with this will be dependent on delivering organic revenue growth.
Informa Investment Solutions, which should create some Events and Training attractive upselling opportunities in 2013.
2012 2011 Actual Organic At IBI, the biggest sector exposure is to the Healthcare and m m % % Pharmaceutical industry, representing around 60% of revenue.
Revenue 535.6 581.2 7.8 3.0 This continued to be a challenging end market in 2012, with corporates facing up to a weak pipeline of new major drug Adjusted Operating approvals, the negative impact of the patent cliff and inexorable Profit 102.9 106.0 2.9 1.4 rise of generic alternatives.
This led to a cautious approach from Adjusted Operating our customer base, with purchasing decisions taking longer to Margin % 19.2 18.2 be approved and often including extensive, procurement-led 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc The Events and Training division incorporates all our face-toface media businesses, across a range of formats including WE WERE VERY PROACTIVE exhibitions, conferences, awards and in-house training programmes.
It accounts for 43% of Group revenue and 29% of adjusted operating profit.
IN RESHAPING THE BUSINESS, It was another busy year, during which we were very proactive REDUCING ITS EXPOSURE in reshaping the business, reducing its exposure to small conferences and training, whilst increasing the weighting towards large events.
The divisional financial performance TO SMALL CONFERENCES reflected this, with revenues declining 7.8% versus 2011 and 3.0% on an organic basis.
The sale of Robbins Gioia and the AND TRAINING, WHILST small European Conference businesses accounted for a large proportion of this decrease, with revenue contribution from these assets over 30m lower in 2012 compared to 2011.
We INCREASING THE WEIGHTING also actively cut our small conference output, focusing resources on building annual, renewable, large events.
In total TOWARDS LARGE EVENTS we ran just 6,500 events across all formats in 2012, down from 12,500 at the peak in 2007.
In revenue terms, we estimate that the conferences we deliberately cut out generated over 8m of revenue in 2011.
The other major negative impact on divisional revenue was our corporate training business.
The sharp increase in adjusted operating margin is a direct reflection of the action outlined, with most of the products we have cut generating low margins, particularly when compared to our large events.
When adjusted for currency, these large events reported high single-digit growth in 2012 and now account for 44% of Events and Training revenue 2011: 38%.
This growth was delivered through a combination of like-for-like event growth, organic launches and geo-cloning activity, as well as a number of acquisitions.
Key highlights included Arab Health and Middle East Electricity within our Adjusted Operating Profit UAE business, AfricaCom and TV Connect events within Informa Telecoms & Media, the Monaco Yacht Show and the Vitafoods series of exhibitions.
Cityscape Global in Dubai also saw a strong recovery after a tough few years, with 69% 4.0% growth in exhibition space and 25% growth in overall attendance.
The largest acquisition we made in this division in 2012 was that of MMPI in July for 34.3m.
This is Canadas biggest exhibition company, producing 45 events across various sectors including construction, design and art, and attracting more than 4,500 exhibitors annually.
It has performed excellently since we took ownership, with good growth across its H2 events and significant progress already on plans to leverage its brands and expertise across the wider Informa Group.
We continued to build our presence in emerging markets, with 27% of Events and Training revenue generated in these fast-growth regions in 2012 2011: 20%.
Highlights included the Middle East where revenues grew 36%.
Following the acquisitions made in 2011, our Brazilian business also had a strong year, recording double-digit growth at the large Fispal exhibition, with a further boost from its biennial event, ForMobile.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 09 2008 305.8m 2009 309.5m 2010 313.2m 2011 336.2m 2012 349.7m Informa plc Chief Executives Review CONTINUED The positive momentum in Brazil has continued into 2013, not appear to be worsening, and the quality and diversity boosted by the recent award of a long-term contract to of our portfolio puts us in a strong position, as evidenced organise Agrishow.
This is the largest event for the agriculture by ongoing growth in usage.
New journal, book and market in Latin America, with around 790 exhibitors and archive launches, including SACHA, will help drive more than 152,000 visitors, across 440,000 square metres growth through 2013 and we expect demand for digital of exhibition space near Sao Paulo.
products to continue to rise.
We also have high hopes that we will continue to build our profile and customer The corporate training business experienced another penetration in emerging markets, where further challenging year, with a lack of confidence amongst opportunities exist.
corporates continuing to negatively impact demand, particularly in the US, where there is still a reluctance to The PCI division enters 2013 leaner, more focused and more commit to expenditure not directly related to income.
IBI will benefit from the launch of new and revamped However, we made good progress developing more products such as the Healthcare Knowledge Centre, Verdict flexible modalities and next generation delivery and the Chinese healthcare database, while IFI, buoyed by a mechanisms, which puts us in an even stronger strong end to 2012, will also reap the full benefit of the Zephyr position to reap rewards as demand recovers.
All of this provides a degree of confidence that PCI can deliver top-line organic growth in 2013 although we The sale of Robbins Gioia has removed much of the Groups would caution that Pharmaceutical and Financial markets exposure to US government contracts and, hence, has remain subdued and fragile.
We also face a small negative helped to reduce overall volatility.
We also feel that the drag from the full year impact of product pruning avoidance of the US fiscal cliff and an upbeat start to the implemented in 2012.
In addition, our Medical Books year on stock markets may help to build confidence.
Our business will be managed by our AI division in 2013, contract pipeline certainly remains healthy, suggesting which will lead to a transfer of over 6m of revenue.
there is latent demand for our products if and when wider confidence recovers.
The Events and Training division also starts 2013 in a stronger position.
The ongoing rebalancing of the portfolio towards TRADING OUTLOOK large events is improving visibility, growth potential and cash The macro-economic environment provided little support dynamics.
Our biggest single event, Arab Health took place in to our businesses in 2012 and we are not assuming any January and delivered a record result, with revenue up 11% on significant improvement within our planning for 2013.
This was recently followed by Middle East Electricity, Unsurprisingly, Europe remains the toughest region, while the another one of our biggest events, where we estimate US is still quite mixed.
Emerging markets are more upbeat revenue grew by 8%.
This augurs well for the performance of though, with the Middle East in particular having started the our business in this region but elsewhere forward bookings year in confident mood, carrying on the improving trend we are also healthy, giving us confidence of another good saw towards the end of 2012.
We are planning to deploy performance from our events portfolio.
The key delta in the more capital into emerging markets, where the growth Events and Training division this year will be our corporate opportunities are that much greater.
It is too early to gain much visibility on trading but we are not assuming a significant market recovery.
Notwithstanding the tough backdrop in which we are We are encouraged by what remains a healthy pipeline of operating, the actions we took in 2012 to sharpen the focus contracts, suggesting there could be pent up demand once of parts of the business, coupled with the investments we confidence returns.
made in acquisitions and new products put Informa in a stronger position coming into 2013.
This is reflected in the We increased the Group adjusted operating margin solid start we have made to the year and with good visibility significantly in 2012, reflecting a proactive improvement in on many revenue streams across our subscription and the mix, the annualised benefit of Datamonitor integration exhibition businesses, there is reason for cautious optimism.
savings, but also a sharp focus on costs by our management Consequently, we are budgeting for underlying revenue team in an uncertain revenue environment.
At this point we growth across all three divisions in 2013. anticipate 2013 to be a year of consolidation, with greater emphasis on top-line growth than margin expansion.
In our AI division, the journal subscription season is well underway and to date the business has traded broadly as There will inevitably be unexpected positives and negatives anticipated, with high renewal rates reflecting strong through 2013 but we are quietly confident in our prospects demand for our content.
Budgetary pressure amongst our for the year ahead and fully expect to deliver another year of customer base remains a challenge but the situation does growth in adjusted earnings per share.
We also expect to 10 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc deliver another strong year of cash conversion, which will give us significant flexibility for investment.
We will continue WE ARE QUIETLY CONFIDENT to look for opportunities, both internally and externally, where there is the potential to reap attractive returns while building on our strategic objectives.
Equally, we remain IN OUR PROSPECTS FOR THE committed to maintaining a progressive dividend policy while keeping our leverage within the target range of YEAR AHEAD AND FULLY 2.02.5 times net debt EBITDA.
EXPECT TO DELIVER ANOTHER Peter Rigby Chief Executive YEAR OF GROWTH Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 11 11
