Chief Executives strategic review We intend to grow revenues and profitability in our core L-band services business both organically and thanks to the Q&A with Rupert Pearce complementarity of our new Inmarsat-5 satellite network, which is currently expected to be globally operational by the end of Rupert Pearce, in his first year as CEO, shares his views and 2014.
The Global Xpress era depends on the successful launch thoughts on Inmarsats strategy and plans for the future.
of the three Inmarsat-5 satellites being manufactured by Boeing, but when we have achieved this, Global Xpress will both futureQ: What is Inmarsats strategy for the next few years?
proof our mobile satellite services activities, offering new levels of A: We have three core strategic objectives: capacity and speed to some of our traditional customers, and take us into new growth markets.
To continue to grow revenues and profitability from our core L-band services business Finally, our investment in a highly innovative service enablement 2.
To successfully launch our new Inmarsat-5 Ka-band Global platform will both provide the glue between our diverse networks Xpress services, and welding them together into a unique integrated capability 3.
To complement both of those objectives by actively and empower and accelerate the business of turning our global empowering a new era of solutions, services and value-adds network into a super-charged value-added delivery mechanism across our global networks.
These three objectives are the foundation of what we believe Q: What were the key drivers for 2012 and how did the will be a new era of growth for the Inmarsat group.
A: 2012 was first and foremost about demonstrating to our shareholders that our Maritime business remains a robust and successful operation.
It contributes more than half of our annual revenues and its seemingly poor growth through the latter half of 2010 and 2011 demanded an answer.
Thats why we were delighted to see such a strong performance from the Maritime business throughout 2012, when it grew revenues by almost 15% year on year, with growth in FleetBroadband subscribers, average revenue per user ARPU and data usage meeting our expectations.
Were delighted at this turn-round, as wed stressed in the prior 18 months that the negative financial impact of a technology transition from our older services to Inmarsat-4 services would be short-term.
We believe our Maritime business is now well-placed to deliver enhanced value to our customers and to grow our market share in the commercial maritime sector.
Rupert Pearce Beyond Maritime, we were equally busy, working hard to expand Chief Executive Officer our Land and Aviation services businesses despite the twin headwinds of lower operational use by our government customers in Afghanistan and the absence of major event revenues in 2012.
There was also a keen focus on the future in 2012 bedding in some significant organisational changes designed to make us more agile and entrepreneurial in our market-facing activities, and driving the Global Xpress programme forward in a crucial development year.
I am extremely pleased at our achievements in these areas in 2012.
Q: There was good share price appreciation during 2012.
What do you put this down to?
A: Our share price will always respond to macro-economic and market trends as well as fundamental operational performance, so we cant afford to place too much importance on short-term price movements, up or down.
However, it was gratifying to see a strong rally to our stock price through the second half of 2012.
I believe this was down to us delivering on our core 2012 objectives.
I believe we have communicated those achievements powerfully and clearly to the investment community.
Q: What challenges do you see on the horizon and where are the risks?
A: It remains a challenging global macro-economic environment and so we take nothing for granted.
The merchant maritime industry is suffering from over-capacity, high fuel costs and low cargo rates, which places a premium on us finding ways to make our services ever more relevant to solving the operational needs of that industry.
Similarly, governments across the globe are budget-constrained and so we also have to find ways to be more relevant to their needs and to be uniquely agile, efficient and effective as their supplier.
Continued on page 8 06 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Volvo Ocean Race As Race Partner and official satellite communications provider to the Volvo Ocean Race, Inmarsats satellite technology is a key enabler for all aspects of the race for position reporting, safety communications and sending live video footage or photos of on-board action to the worlds media.
Our strategy Objective Progress How we manage risk KPIs Continue to grow revenues The successful launch of Long-term growth comes Activated MSS terminals and profitability from our Alphasat in 2013 will bring primarily from successful increased 14% in 2012, core L-band services business more capacity, improved innovation, which builds reflecting strong demand coverage and extended life sustained differentiation and across all our sectors through the addition of, in value in the marketplace.
14% Successfully launch our new On budget and with key Global Xpress will future- 20% of target revenues Inmarsat-5 Ka-band Global milestones met, including the proof our mobile satellite for first five years already Xpress GX services launch contract and a number services business with higher committed of distribution and technology capacity and speeds, as well agreements already signed to as significantly diversify our ensure a fast start when GX operations into new VSAT 20% rolls-out globally.
Complement both of those Our partnership with Cisco to Integrated L-band GX We are targeting MSS objectives by actively create a service enablement services and applications wholesale revenue growth empowering a new era platform will allow Inmarsat developed and deployed targets of 8-12% CAGR for of solutions, services and and our partners to develop using a standard open the period 2014-16 value-adds across our and deploy innovative architecture will foster global networks applications.
growth in our ecosystem and contribute to revenue growth.
8-12% Inmarsat plc 07 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategic review continued Finally, the Global Xpress programme is a US$1.2bn technological, Q: How does Inmarsat respond to competitors across its commercial and operational challenge, which we need to deliver various market sectors?
on time and to budget in order to reap the maximum reward from A: We watch our competitors closely and we compete vigorously our visionary innovation.
We will be the first operator to offer global with them across the different markets in which we operate.
seamless high broadband speeds using a combination of L-band But we would never allow ourselves to be defined exclusively by and Ka-band satellites and we believe this will be attractive to our competitors thats a mistake.
Instead, we define ourselves many customers.
by our customers and their communications needs.
What keeps us focused competitively is our desire to make our capabilities more and more relevant to satisfying our customers requirements, Wider portfolio Inmarsat-4 services and to make sure we keep on being highly relevant to those customers as part of our day-to-day business.
That passion drives Innovation Track record our investment in innovation and organisational development and is the key to our success in the marketplace.
Market-enhancing products BGAN, FleetBroadband and coming to market such as SwiftBroadband are now Q: How can you achieve long-term growth?
an updated IsatPhone Pro, making material contributions A: We are a technology company and so long-term growth M2M services and broadband to our growth.
comes primarily from successful innovation, which builds sustained variants.
differentiation and value in the marketplace.
Successful innovation itself comes not purely from engineering excellence, which we Q: How well-prepared is Inmarsat to meet challenges and have demonstrated over many years, but from being marketopportunities?
We want our innovation to respond to the requirements A: I think were in good shape.
The twin engines of growth for us from our customer base, and to do this in close collaboration are innovation and the strength of our channel partners, and they with our distribution channel.
We believe that this combination position us well to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead.
of customer intimacy and technological excellence drives unique long-term advantage.
We have a strong track record as successful innovators, but right now is perhaps as exciting as its ever been in our 34-year history.
Q: How do you balance the need to invest in new satellites and The Inmarsat-4 services platform is hitting its stride, with BGAN, services against providing a growing return to shareholders?
FleetBroadband and SwiftBroadband all now highly successful and A: Our Inmarsat-4 fleet, to be augmented by the Alphasat satellite making material contributions to our growth, with the additional in 2013, will not need replacement until the early-2020s, which promise of a new wave of market-enhancing Inmarsat-4-based demonstrates not only how long-term the satellite business is, but innovation coming to market, such as an updated IsatPhone Pro, also how historic investments can be leveraged over a satellites machine to machine M2M services and new variants of our core lifetime through a largely fixed-cost operational structure.
expect the Inmarsat-5 programme will, by the end of 2014, have completed the launch of the three satellites necessary for global Alongside the Inmarsat-4 services platform, in 2013 well be coverage, and we expect their lifetime to last into the 2030s.
launching our first Inmarsat-5 satellite, which ushers in the As a result, we expect our capital investment requirements to start enhanced capabilities of Global Xpress services, which none to decline rapidly from 2014 for several years, and in this same of our competitors can match on a global basis.
time period, we expect to enter a new revenue growth phase.
These two elements working together translate into a growing Lastly, the capabilities of both these powerful satellite platforms return to shareholders.
will be enriched by the development work to create an integration and solutions platform for our partners and customers.
We also believe we are more conservatively financed i. e. relatively less debt than many of our competitors which gives us greater This wave of innovation, fully funded from our strong balance investment and return flexibility.
sheet and highly cash-generative business model, gives us great confidence in the future.
That innovation is then leveraged by All our capital expenditure is required to pass stringent return on our many distribution channel partners, who together reach every investment ROI requirements before we will approve it.
This high corner of the globe with our services and who add the necessary bar is designed to ensure that our investments are self-financing customer intimacy and, of course, the value-added services and and deliver positive returns to our shareholders.
We firmly believe, solutions that transform our global mobile connectivity into highly for example, that the US$1.2bn investment in our Inmarsat-5 relevant operational outcomes for the customer.
We see this programme will surpass our ROI approval threshold and be a major collaborative business model as both agile and relevant in a contributor to shareholder returns.
Q: You have a highly motivated management team and wider staff.
An example of innovation is also our involvement as a founder How does Inmarsat maintain a skilled and committed workforce?
and active industrial contributor to the newly established Satellite A: We are extremely proud of our workforce and their extraordinary Applications Catapult Centre, which is funded by the Technology contribution to the success of the business.
Id say that we are all Strategy Board, the UK premier agency for fostering innovation.
highly motivated and I believe that this motivation springs from Its aim is to create new products and technology applications a common passion for what we do, rooted in a belief that what across a range of different sectors, including innovative we do is worthwhile, recognising that we are vital and relevant applications for use on the Inmarsat system.
to the many communities we serve whether it is providing services for saving lives daily through our commitment to maritime and aviation safety services, or delivering mission-critical connectivity and solutions to commercial and government customers in extraordinary situations.
That unity of purpose is expressed in our core values of Passion, Openness, Enterprise and being Market-driven values that reinforce our relevance and differentiation amongst our employees and to our customers and make us proud of who we are.
08 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Powering global connectivity SOLUTIONS pLaTFORm INmaRSaT-4 INmaRSaT-5 Resilience and safety Core L-band services Capacity and speed Core Ka-band services We are also committed to developing the skills and capabilities We have also supported other specific charities relevant to of our workforce through training and career development, different parts of our business, such as Race2Recovery and good management practices, a safe and happy workplace, and Everest Million, which are supported by our Global Government a stimulating environment which is at the forefront of satellite and Enterprise business units, respectively.
Our employees make our business a success.
Q: What have been the highlights for you in your first year as CEO?
A: Its been a privilege to have the chance to lead Inmarsat, Q: How do your company values feed through to value particularly at such an exciting time of transformation and for shareholders?
It has been exciting to follow my Chairman, Andy A: These corporate values of Passion, Openness, Enterprise and Sukawaty, who led us through a tremendous era of growth and Market-focus represent standards of behaviour which both unite success from 2003 to 2011.
Ive had great support from Andy, us into a powerful collaborative organisation, and also directly link the Inmarsat plc Board and my Executive Team colleagues in our actions to successful business outcomes.
For example, Passion my first year.
drives engineering excellence and the desire to go the extra mile for the customer: Openness drives collaboration and humility: Having the opportunity to meet many of our employees across Enterprise drives intelligent risk-taking and a winning mentality: the world has been very informative and beneficial for my deeper and Market-focus drives customer intimacy and relevance.
understanding of our local operations.
And Ive been able to see first-hand how our diverse cultural workforce of around 45 Q: How do you view your wider social and environmental different nationalities brings operational advantages.
a technologically challenging business and very capital intensive.
A: We were founded in 1979 to save lives at sea and that For a company of our scale and complexity we have a relatively heritage is woven into how we operate today to provide mission small number of employees, around 1,600, but they are of critical services.
Of course, a network that is relied upon to very high calibre and we are rightly, in my view, very proud support those in peril on the sea can also be depended upon of their contributions.
by an enterprise or government for mission critical services too, so the basis for our foundation is also our differentiating, driving There have been many highlights in my first year at the helm: force today.
Growth Wherever we operate, we are part of the local community The performance turn-round at the Q1 and Q2 results and we are pleased that our offices participate in various local announcements reflecting revenue growth.
Our corporate charitable commitment is to Tlcoms Sans Frontires, which we have supported for Organisation many years.
This is an outstanding charity, where we see our The successful creation of the four new business units to services bringing direct benefit to those affected by human focus on revenue generation.
Leadership The gelling of the new Executive Team to work with me We provide equipment and support to Tlcoms Sans to lead the business.
Frontires, which in the wake of disasters sets up telecom centres to help co-ordinate first responders relief efforts and Progress gives survivors the opportunity to telephone loved-ones to say Many successful milestones on the Inmarsat-5 programme theyre alive.
Inmarsat plc 09 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategic review continued But perhaps the key highlight of the year was the Shareholder In the face of a tough economic environment, we are confident Investor Day in October when everything came together into a about prospects for growth during 2013 in our Maritime really powerful enunciation of the transformative power of Global FleetBroadband service and harnessing new opportunities in our Xpress.
That day demonstrated the strength of Inmarsats Land and Aviation sectors to deliver sustainable new revenues.
positioning not just the growth potential of the new Global Xpress services, but also the way that our legacy L-band services and our new Ka-band services can be so complementary to each other, as well as the extraordinary power of our new Business Unit structure and the depth of our management talent.
As such, the Investor Day was the moment when we could see the true power of transformation of what we are all working so hard to create.
Q: What are your priorities for 2013?
A: This year shares many of the same priorities as 2012.
Were focusing on continuing the pace of growth in Maritime, fuelled by FleetBroadband, and broadening the opportunities in our Land and Aviation sectors, in a tough market environment caused by the lower operational requirements of our government customers in Afghanistan.
However, we feel optimistic about the capabilities of SwiftBroadband, BGAN and IsatPhone Pro to deliver sustainable new revenues for us in the Aviation and Land sectors.
We are also focusing efforts on expanding our market reach in the growing Our Executive Team machine to machine M2M market, where we are targeting utility This team is responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
and logistics organisations which require reliable cost-effective communications capabilities.
Rich Harris Andy Start SVP Legal & Regulatory Affairs President, Global Government In addition, a new wave of L-band product innovation will start to be delivered in 2013, aimed at broadening our addressable David Helfgott Leo Mondale markets in Maritime, Land and Aviation, so we have to stay President, Inmarsat MD, Global Xpress focused on those development programmes.
Government US Frank Coles We also need to remain vigilant and committed to the Inmarsat-5 Alison Horrocks President, Maritime and service enablement platform programmes.
These two key SVP Corporate Governance programmes will continue to be highly demanding as they move & Company Secretary Rupert Pearce into their most intensive period before commercial operation Chief Executive Officer in 2014.
Debbie Jones SVP Corporate Development Ruy Pinto What makes 2013 different, of course, is the exciting prospect of Chief Technology Officer not one but two satellite launches the first since 2008.
The L-band Rick Medlock Alphasat satellite looks set to launch around the middle of the year, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Sukawaty and the first Inmarsat-5 satellite launch is expected before the end Executive Chairman of the year.
These extraordinary events have infused the entire Ronald Spithout organisation with energy and enthusiasm, and will push us all to President, Enterprise raise our game to new heights in 2013.
10 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
