Chief Executives Review 2012 was another year of high-quality growth for IHG, with the launch of two new brands and a strong pace of hotel openings and signings.
Driven by a material increase in worldwide demand for hotel rooms, we generated an impressive 6.8 per cent growth in fee revenue, one of our key metrics of success.
This translated into double digit profit growth, driven by our preferred Brands and brought to life in our hotels by talented and passionate People.
How we win particular outperformance in our two IHG has a track record of successful largest markets, the US and Greater brand launches.
But it is our powerful Our well established, asset-light strategy China.
Importantly, in spite of the limited portfolio of established brands that create has enabled us to deliver good revenue availability of capital in many markets, we value for our owners and shareholders and profit growth again this year, despite increased the number of rooms operating today and we never lose sight of that fact the continued challenges in the wider in our System by 2.7 per cent.
This, as we continually evolve and rene them.
At the core of this combined with healthy RevPAR growth Our largest brand, the Holiday Inn brand strategy lies the third party owners of IHG is what has enabled us to grow our fee family, continues to deliver significant branded hotels.
At IHG we have a unique revenue so strongly.
value for both IHG and our owners.
This competitive advantage, which is the strong year Holiday Inn was the ofcial hotel and deep relationship that we have with Preferred Brands provider to the London 2012 Olympic and our owners, primarily through the IHG Paralympic Games and celebrated its 60th Our preferred Brands are at the heart of Owners Association.
In 2012 Holiday Inn continued our business and are key to our continued enables us to work closely with our its post relaunch track record by growing success in driving strong results.
Our owners, tap into their combined expertise its premium to the sector each year since brands are already some of the most and take action more quickly and 2007, and was ranked Highest Guest recognised in the industry but we continue effectively than our competitors.
Satisfaction Among Mid-Scale Full Service to innovate and develop them to meet As we move into our 10th year as a Hotel Chains, Two Years in a Row by changing guest needs and to stay ahead stand-alone listed company, we can be J. D. Power and Associates see page 141. in a competitive market place.
proud of our record of delivery as we We are delighted to have launched two Crowne Plaza is our second largest brand continue to gain market share, leveraging new brands in 2012: HUALUXE Hotels & after the Holiday Inn brand family.
It is already our scale to grow margins, profits and Resorts in China and EVEN Hotels in the the worlds fourth largest full-service hotel cashow.
This has enabled us to continue US.
HUALUXE has had a particularly brand in the upper segments, generating to reinvest in our business whilst strong start with 15 signings in the year.
almost 20 per cent of our total gross simultaneously returning significant sums Each of these brands has been created revenue per annum.
Crowne Plaza has of surplus cash to shareholders and through a deep understanding of the been highly successful and has a solid generating superior shareholder returns.
trends in the lodging marketplace foundation for future growth, however In August 2012 we announced a $1 billion combined with genuine insight into guest we see significant opportunity to take its return of funds to shareholders continuing occasions and needs.
They have been performance in The Americas up to the our long track record of returns, with total designed to meet a need which we feel levels achieved by the brand globally.
funds returned to shareholders since is underserved in the market today and We are currently undertaking a three-phase, the 2003 demerger, including ordinary which can deliver significant revenue multi-year repositioning programme, dividends, of around $9 billion, almost and profit opportunities over the longer which will look to provide a more consistent, twice the market capitalisation of the term, in our two largest markets.
IHGs targeted experience around the world.
significant expertise in both these We will continue to drive the business Talented People markets and the scale of our operations forward through our preferred Brands, enabled us to launch these two new Great hotel brands need to deliver a talented People and best-in-class brands simultaneously, unprecedented consistent, branded experience to guests, Delivery systems, all underpinned by our in the industry.
and talented and passionate People are commitment to Responsible Business.
At IHG we are focussed New brands are exciting and have the In 2012 we continued to outperform the on ensuring our People deliver consistent potential to create value in the future and industry with strong RevPAR growth, with 6 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
