10 Interserve annual report 2012 BusIness revIew CHIef exeCutIves statement Q&a CHIef exeCutIves statement Q&a How Has Interserve 1 performed In 2012?
2012 has been a very good year for Interserve in the face of mixed market conditions.
I am pleased with the continued progress we have made against our stated strategic objectives.
We have grown revenue and profits and continue to build a strong future workload.
In the UK, we have made good progress in spite of the economic environment, notably in our Support Services division, where we have grown revenue and remain on track to meet our margin target of five per cent by the end of 2013.
Overseas we continue to build our support services business and we will look to continue this trend in 2013.
The UK construction industry has faced challenges over the year, but our business here has shown good resilience and we continue to win work, growing future workload to 6.3 billion.
Internationally, our construction business has shown a mixed performance, experiencing varying demand in different countries.
Latterly we have started to see positive signs of recovery in the UAE, as well as signs of emerging infrastructure development in Oman and Qatar.
Revenue and margins continue to improve in our Equipment Services business, which we have achieved through intelligent management of our global fleet, a timely pricing review and accessing new, attractive markets.
adrIan rIngrose CHIef exeCutIve o ov five er rv vIIe ew w BusIness revIew governanCe fInanCIal statements Interserve annual report 2012 BusIness revIew CHIef exeCutIves statement Q&a 11 Strategically, we have made good continues to innovate with wHat are your plans progress in growing our business technologies such as PassivHaus 3 for 2013?
as planned, realising the latent and our own proprietary construction value in our PFI portfolio to reinvest system - Podsolve.
The UK business We will continue to build our core in future growth.
During the year has also expanded the scope of businesses, access adjacent markets we increased our capacity for the its operations in attractive growth and develop new opportunities for delivery of services direct to the areas such as the energy from growth.
At the start of the year, citizen, firstly in welfare with our waste sector.
Overseas we have we acquired TOCO, which will acquisition of BEST now Interserve developed our specialist joinery enhance our existing capabilities in Working Futures and in the health and interior fit-out operations in the provision of services to the oil sector with Advantage Healthcare.
Qatar and UAE and remain well and gas sector.
The strength of our placed for infrastructure development balance sheet leaves us well-placed in the region.
to exploit further growth opportunities How are you performIng both in the UK and overseas.
Support Services in the UK has 2 agaInst Company strategy?
delivered strong revenue growth In December, the UK government of 11 per cent based on the ongoing Our strategy is to build strong core announced PF2 and reasserted its need for government and businesses businesses, expand internationally commitment to infrastructure building to increase efficiencies and maximise and expand the scope of our core projects, notably through a schools effectiveness in difficult economic businesses.
We have made good building programme.
progress against all three aspects developments are positive signs for of this in 2012 and expect to see Interserve and play to our strengths Overseas we continue to expand further progress in 2013. of experience and innovation.
We our capability, notably in our expect to see further outsourcing We are ambitious and optimistic provision of services to the oil and opportunities from both the private and about our medium-term growth gas industry, both through workpublic sector, through a combination potential.
By crystallising value winning, but also with the acquisition of macroeconomic pressures and in our PFI assets we have further of TOCO at the turn of the year.
increasing demand for public services strengthened our balance sheet from a growing and ageing population.
Equipment Services is our most and are well placed to exploit global business and continues opportunities for growth in line Developing and delivering our frontline to expand its geographic reach, with our strategy.
In 2012 we have capability will be a focus in areas establishing new branch locations done this both by building our such as health, welfare and justice, in India, Chile, Panama and latterly capability in the justice market, building on our 2012 activities.
In addition we are and also through the acquisition justice market remains an important also exporting to less developed of BEST and Advantage Healthcare, opportunity for Interserve, with the markets in Central Africa, Iraq expanding our frontline service UK governments announcement of a and the Caspian region, moving our capability and exploiting rehabilitation revolution in equipment fleet to follow demand adjacent markets.
December 2012 and a clear and capture new opportunities.
Our UK construction business has not only focused on long-term We look forward with confidence to commercial structures such as making further progress against our framework agreements, but also strategy in 2013 and beyond.
12 interserve annual report 2012 business revieW strategiC overvieW Changing lives through sustainable jobs We are proud to be involved in the delivery Welfare to Work of this flagship programme, delivered across Interserve is working with its partners to West Yorkshire through interserve Working make a difference to peoples lives, by helping futures and in the South West and Wales them to find long-term employment.
through a joint venture with the Rehab Group The Work Programme is the UK Governments called Rehab Jobfit.
largest and most ambitious Government Our partnership with Work Programme providers back-to-work initiative ever commissioned blends their existing expertise in providing training, and caters for the long-term unemployed, employment, health and social care or those with substantial difficulties in and commercial services with our track record finding work.
of large-scale service delivery to Government The programme brings together many of and management of supply chains.
the best features of previous initiatives and combines them with some new approaches, all of which are designed to move more people into sustained employment.
