4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Chief Executive Ofcers review 2012 saw Intertek deliver another year of strong growth despite a difficult global economic environment.
We achieved this growth through consistent implementation of our well-established mission and strategy.
This remains at the centre of our ability to systematically capture the growth opportunities arising from our different markets.
Our mission and strategy Our mission is to provide solutions to our customers that allow them to improve the quality of their products, operations and processes.
The worlds leading companies, their suppliers and partners trust us to add value to their brands.
We do this by providing solutions based on their desired quality level that enables them to increase their competitive advantage and support their global trade objectives.
Interteks strategic focus is on meeting our customers need for quality across their organisations and along their complex supply chains.
Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer Our strategy also allows us to drive growth in our business in the future since the needs of our customers and the marketplace The worlds leading companies, for quality solutions is an ever changing environment.
their suppliers and partners trust The market for quality Our marketplace is the desire for quality by organisations us to add value to their brands.
as they develop and pursue success across their businesses Critical to our success is our ability to and operations.
Quality encompasses many dimensions, from safety and performance through to integrity, desirability and deliver solutions that bring benets sustainability.
The demand drivers for our quality services come to our customers organisations.
from within our customers organisations and from external commercial, consumer, regulatory and macro-economic forces.
Global trade and the continual ux in sourcing patterns and supply chains, as well as end-users changing perceptions on quality and desire to use more sustainable products are steadily expanding the demand for our services.
Our customers Intertek has over 200,000 customers, ranging from the smallest business with unique local needs, to the largest conglomerate seeking multinational support.
As the trusted partner of many of the worlds leading brands and their suppliers, we help local companies to meet local and international quality standards and to trade successfully with local and global partners.
We help global companies achieve higher quality standards across their complex international supply chains and in the local markets where they seek to do business.
The diverse quality aspects that our customers need to consider in their assets, production, products and services is increasing and presenting a more complex challenge for them to achieve without expert help.
This diversity is driven by the development of new technologies, the trend towards outsourcing of non-core activities and by their desire to meet the changing demands and tastes of their end-users across a range of quality, safety and environmental criteria.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Our customers are also under pressure to increase their We opened new facilities in 2012 in regions where our clients competitive edge through increasing efficiency, speeding up are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing time-to-market and reducing costs.
This means that they are new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
constantly looking for better, smarter ways to conduct their In addition to our organic investments, the Group completed testing, inspection and certication activities which creates a series of complementary bolt-on acquisitions in 2012.
These opportunities for us to increase our support to them by included 4th Strand, a product quality and benchmarking business evolving our capabilities.
and Automation Technology, asset integrity support experts, both Critical to our success is our ability to deliver quality solutions that located in the USA.
add value and benefit to our customers.
The following pages of We expanded our minerals sector capabilities with the acquisition this report describe examples of the range of ways that Interteks of Vigalab Mineral Laboratory in Chile and of Laboratory Services solutions are bringing benets to our customers.
Materials Testing & Inspection Evolving industries NDT Services and Tickford International in the UK also joined In 2012 we supported a number of emerging industry the Group.
These have brought new industrial testing capabilities developments and new technologies.
These range from within the aerospace and engine markets respectively along with unconventional gas developments in the USA and Australia, capabilities in surrounding markets.
to the physical and technological developments of energy grid Enhancing performance networks and the spread of wireless and smart-phone controlled Intertek is continuing to pursue operational efficiencies and technologies into new consumer and industrial product areas.
establish platforms allowing it to better capture growth at a It is important in delivering our strategy that our capabilities keep lower cost and to integrate acquisitions more efficiently.
In 2012 step with the evolving needs of each industry.
Thus we invest in the Group continued the outsourcing of its global IT applications new technologies in many different areas to capture organic and accounting back-ofce support.
This is a phased programme growth opportunities.
covering countries in which English is the predominant business language, representing nearly 40% of revenue.
Strategic alignment Intertek operates across a wide portfolio of industry segments.
The Groups 2012 full year adjusted underlying operating margin In late 2012 we conducted a strategic review of our portfolio of of 16.3% reects a 20 basis point improvement on the prior year, more than 20 different global business lines operating within achieved through efficiency initiatives and economies of scale our five divisions.
We reviewed the alignment of our capabilities achieved through business growth.
against present and anticipated demand within each industry Going forward and across our different geographical markets.
Looking ahead to 2013 and beyond we will continue with our As a result, in 2013 we have increased our global strategic focus established strategy, allowing us to grow our business and to on our key business lines and our operational focus around our increase our value to shareholders.
This model ensures that we are building the right By maintaining our focus on delivering services that add benefit knowledge and capabilities to serve the developing needs of to our customers organisations, we will continue to be a each industry at a global level, whilst also ensuring our services sought-after and trusted partner to our clients.
are delivered in a way that recognises local market customs and the different operational needs of each country.
Our portfolio of industry services, geographic diversity and continual development and alignment of our capabilities around Expanding capabilities our mission, will ensure that we have a broad platform to invest We focus on meeting the needs of our customers by delivering in fast growing sectors.
We are well prepared to capture early a range of complementary services along the entire supply chain.
opportunities arising in the markets of the different industries we Through a combination of new service initiatives, organic are serving and are positioned to continue our successful growth investment and acquisitions, we continue to deepen our pattern in the future.
capabilities in each of our industries.
We launched Tradegood in late 2012 which is a new online Wolfhart Hauser platform helping to match suppliers with buyers and giving buyers Chief Executive officer access to reliable data on suppliers qualications and credentials globally.
In the commodities arena, we extended our relationship with oil services group Baker Hughes, creating new efficiencies for our customers by delivering cargo inspection services in tandem with Baker Hughes treatment of customers cargo.
We also expanded our capabilities in 4G telecommunications and electric vehicle related testing and hold market leading positions in those areas.
Our new strategic relationship with the Quality and Conformity Council of Abu Dhabi will expand our capability in the Emirate and support the regions increasing demand for quality in the years to come.
6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Chief Executive Ofcers review continued Our market The global marketplace for quality solutions is dynamic and diverse.
As organisations in developed and developing economies pursue success, it creates the need to develop and maintain the right quality in their products and processes.
Below are some of the dynamics that create Interteks chosen marketplace: Quality.
Market drivers in our industries The need for quality arises at Whether our customers are developing new products, building many separate and interrelated new infrastructure and or trying to get their products, services points across a customers and projects to market more quickly, we help them ensure that organisation.
Quality is diverse their business is not compromised by poor quality.
Companies and may reect one or many seek quality solutions for a wide variety of reasons.
of the following dimensions all of which Intertek serves s.. Safety Reducing the risk of injuries and danger to life and health h from products, materials, components and operations.. End-user Sustainability expectations Helping companies to improve the social, health and environmental impact of their products and processes.
Energy Performance New growth and Enabling organisations to technologies Market development optimise the technical output ut of their products or processe es s.. drivers in our Integrity industries Evaluating the composition or reliability of infrastructure e, materials, commodities, components and systems.
Desirability Increasing the appeal of Supply chain Regulations products, materials and complexity new innovations to the varying ng preferences of end-users in different markets.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Macro-economic trends and opportunities in our sector create growth in the demand for quality services.
These also add resilience to our business model.
We have a range of opportunities to expand our business and increase value to shareholders with the enduring drivers of growth in our marketplace.
Our growth opportunities End-user expectations Global trade and emerging market trade growth Consumers in developed economies trust brands and companies Increasing interconnectedness in global trade and expanding that deliver products, or perform, with consistent quality.
This requires regional trade among fast-growth nations is expanding the market investment in quality solutions to maintain or increase their reputation for Interteks services.
In creating, buying and selling products each for quality.
Consumers in emerging markets are also demanding higher day, our customers seek independent assurance on the quality of levels of quality across a diverse range of criteria, creating new markets materials received from their trading partners.
for quality services from local and international brands.
New technologies Market drivers in our industries Companies develop new products and technologies to create new Our customers efforts to innovate, meet consumer demand markets, increase sales and to respond to diverse end-user demands.
for quality, develop energy resources, maintain efficient supply Quality services are needed from the concept stage through to chains and comply with regulations create demand for quality delivery to the end market.
Their ongoing development of new technologies, energy resources and quality in their products is increasing the demand for our solutions.
Regulations Network and service expansion Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards Expanding our services into new markets and developing continue to expand and change across companies and cultures.
new services in existing markets will enable us to capture Companies utilise quality services to maintain compliance and new business.
We continue to invest in new services and navigate regulatory change.
capabilities to support our customers current and future needs and to expand in growing markets.
Supply chain complexity Outsourcing and consulting services Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers By creating quality solutions that enhance our customers and components across multiple countries.
They seek assurances businesses, we can increase the outsourcing of quality services on quality along the supply chain to reduce the risk of product, brand and related consultancy by companies to Intertek.
Today, many and operational failures, and to increase visibility and efficiency along companies address quality needs internally but at a higher cost the supply chain.
with less exibility and dedicated knowledge.
Energy growth and development Industry consolidation By making value-adding acquisitions, we are consolidating Global demand for energy is driving increased development and trading of energy resources and infrastructure.
Our customers are our position in key industries.
These also allow us to add complementary capabilities to our service portfolio and grow requiring more quality, safety and environmental assurance support in their expanding resource production and trading activities.
our business through a full-service offering for each customer in each industry.
8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Business review Chief Executive Ofcers review continued Our strategy Interteks mission is to deliver quality solutions that add value to our customers processes, products and brands.
Our business is differentiated through our strategic choice of target market, how and where we deploy our services in that market, and in the way we interact with our customers.
Global trade model Intertek has a unique and strategic focus on supporting organisations needs for quality as they arise in the context of global trade.
Our business model targets the testing, inspection and certication of goods, commodities and infrastructure owing along supply chains and between different markets and into global trade.
Global Industry focus We are organised around the industries that we operate in.
This enables us to best meet the quality needs of each industry, which arise at many separate and interrelated points specic to their industries and organisations.
Quality Target whole supply chain Different quality needs exist at each stage of the supply chain: from the sourcing of raw materials or prototype testing, to the manufacture and distribution of a nished product.
We position our business along the length of the supply chain to support the needs of customers at each stage.
Partner Customer-oriented relationships The way that we approach our customer relationships differentiates us.
We aim to create a trusted partnership with our customers, becoming an integral part of their businesses and providing solutions that can improve their competitive advantage.
We focus on understanding our customers businesses and their needs and pressures.
Our strategy is to provide our solutions in a way that can help them better meet those needs and improve their businesses.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Our strategy is to be the premier service provider in our chosen markets.
We continue to invest in and develop our business delivery model in order to be our customers partner of choice.
Network expansion We continue to expand and deepen our network and knowledge in new regions and in new and existing industries to capture opportunities for growth.
This enables us to meet demand from changes in global, interregional and local trade and deepen our position in established and growing markets.
Leading positions in key industries We develop our service lines to support quality needs along the length of the supply chain through organic investment and acquisition.
We concentrate on industry sectors where we have the critical size to hold leading positions and provide our customers with world-class services.
New services for the present and future We create new services and innovations for our customers to help their businesses succeed.
We develop capabilities along the frontier of science and innovation which drives market demand for quality services in the future.
We develop new tools and interfaces in areas where we can support customers in new, smarter ways.
Investing in our people Our people are our core assets and we invest continually in them.
They are chosen for their technical expertise, values and their understanding of local culture.
Our people are experts and leaders in their elds, including engineers, chemists, biologists, consultants and geologists.
Many are holders of research doctorates, are graduates or advisors to global institutions.
Our talented and dedicated people provide our customers with the expertise they need to succeed.
