Chief Executives Statement 3RVLWLRQLQJ RXU EXVLQHVVHV IRU WKH IXWXUH W We h e ha ave three strong businesses with leading posi positi tio ons in industries with structural growth d dr riv ive er rsand it is our clear focus to ensure that we we c ca apture the opportunities available to us to to build bui shareholder value.
W Wa ayn yne e Edmunds, E Chief Executive Orders m During the year, we made good progress : with some significant achievements of business to bring additional emphasis thatposition us well for the future.
upon our leading brands and Inparticular, we reorganised into lines technologies.
2, 750m ofbusiness within the divisions to : increase focus on our industry-leading teams with several new appointments 2UGHUVZHUHe PLOOLRQ technologies and we are investing in across the divisions.
e PLOOLRQ XS enhancing many of our core technology : XS DW& 5 platforms.
We also grew the Invensys inenhancing a number of our core Rail order book signicantly and agreed technology platforms across the the triennial review of the Invensys divisions.
Pension Scheme UK with no change :HDJUHHGWKH 0DUFK WULHQQLDO Operating profit m tothe funding plan.
review with the Trustees of the Invensys 3HQVLRQ6FKHPH 8.
ZKLFKUHVXOWHGLQ 'XULQJWKH HDU ZHPDGHVRPHVLJQLFDQW no change to the funding plan.
achievements positioning us well for the : IXWXUH 209m banking facilities to ensure we have, QYHQV  thefunding capacity to underpin our 2SHUDWLQJSURWZDVe PLOOLRQ VLJQLFDQWO  financial position and support our e PLOOLRQ GRZQ in both core and new markets.
GRZQ DW& 5, QYHQV  achieved strong order momentum across each line of business without the benefit of any new large greeneld contract awards during the year.
QYHQV V& much weaker than expected trading conditions in the appliance market in 1RUWK$PHULFDDQG XURSH 08 Invensys plc $QQXDO 5HSRUW DQG $FFRXQWV Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information However it is disappointing that our  Invensys Operations Management had  effective at business development, another year of strong order intake across ofadditional costs arising from our teaming and partnering to provide each line of business despite the absence  comprehensive market access, as  Operations Management and a handful  the year.
The underlying rate of order ofcontracts within Invensys Rails Asia contract wins in Invensys Rail.
Revenuegrowth bystrengthening our procedures and and financing our businesses and was also strong mainly due to the ramp-up management teams in a number of areas.
of activity on many of the recently won .
However We have three strong businesses with Our core markets remain robust operating profit and margins were affected leading positions in industries with Each of our divisions is operating in  structural growth drivers and it is our industry verticals which have strong  clearfocus to ensure that we capture the growthprospects: in China.
opportunities available to us to build , shareholder value.
Invensys Rail reported a near record our core markets of oil, gas and power orderintake with the award of several have long-term structural growth Our strategy largecontracts in new markets.
Revenue prospects due to the need for greenfield The world is changing at great speed with  capacity in the developing world,  RDEs likely  especially India and China, and the to overtake the developed world in terms  potential for optimisation and efficiency  inmobilisation on some of the large new of plant operations, particularly at decade or so.
Although the core of our marketcontracts.
Despitethepreviously brownfield sites in the developed world.
overall strategy remains unchanged, we , AtInvensysRail, theglobalrail need to ensure that we continue to extend %.
infrastructure market also has long-term  structural growth prospects due to Invensys Controls had to cope with an largest customer base.
industrialisation and urbanisation in the appliance market that was much weaker Our core attributes support our strategy developing world together with capacity than had been expected at the start of Across our businesses we have a number needs and pressure to reduce carbon theyear, resulting in a decline in revenue ofcore attributes that position us well as footprints in the developed world.
However its wholesale and the global economy develops, with the AtInvensysControls, ourcoremarkets commercial lines of business held up result that we should grow faster than the ofappliance, commercial and wholesale muchbetter to offset some of the competition: are expected to grow due to a recovery declinesin appliance.
  At the corporate centre, we have eliminated consumer aspirations in the developing including software and western standard several previously group-wide functions world.
safety systems which are attractive to and returned some responsibilities to the RDEcustomers.
Wearealsoadapting Inparticular,  divisions, which has resulted in central a number of our offerings to meet many India are increasingly important markets %atCERto  for each of our divisions and we will be 38million 2011:46million.
products with features tailored to their using our combined knowledge and markets, whilst maintaining effectiveness experience from operating in these and safety.
countries to improve our capabilities  and to capture growth opportunities.
exceptional customer relationships across both the developed world and Performance highlights RDEs.
 Wayne Edmunds  performed strongly with order growth in Chief Executive issues in the year, we have strengthened Invensys Operations Management and our global delivery skills, in particular for Invensys Rail providing visibility into next .
year, additional costs on a small number of contracts resulted in a reduction in profits compared to last year.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
