Chief Executives review Key highlights No company can take success Another good performance in 2012, marking the forgranted: we need to adapt halfway point of our Vision 2015 growth strategy ifwe areto survive and prosper With our continued focus on our customers and 2 inachanging world.
our people, we expect to deliver our targeted EPS of greater than 100 pence before 2015 Our new, simplified, geographic structure isdesigned to promote collaboration and so maximise growth opportunities.
It positions Samir Brikho usfor2015 and beyond.
Chief Executive 2012 marked the halfway point in the implementation Vision 2015 the halfway point ofour Vision 2015 growth strategy.
We can be proud Ours is a straightforward business.
We operate in ofwhat we have achieved so far.
Despite uncertain fourmarkets oil & gas, mining, clean energy, and macro-economic conditions, we have made significant environment & infrastructure.
In each we provide people progress on many of our goals.
with the technical expertise to support our customers asthey build, operate or decommission their assets.
Looking forward, it is clear that we cannot afford Wewin work because of our reputation for consistent complacency.
We have already started to consider andsuccessful delivery and we do this by employing, whatthecompany needs to look like beyond 2015. training and retaining high-quality people.
JohnFKennedy said: Change is the law of life and thosewho look only to the past or present are certain Vision 2015 is explained on page 10.
Shown there is what tomiss the future.
This is a philosophy we will continue we have done to develop our customer relationships: toadopt onour journey to success.
howwe have developed our people: how our project delivery framework provides a flexible, scalable method Let me talk in turn about our 2012 performance, our ofdelivering consistently to our customers across the progress towards Vision 2015 and how we are positioning world: and how we have been achieving growth, organically AMEC for a successful future.
Importantly, we are achieving our financial targets ahead of our original plans.
Let me pick 2012 results out a few examples which typify our approach: Our performance in 2012 remained good.
Revenues were up 28 per cent, or 12 per cent if currency, acquisitions our vision is that by continually delivering excellence, andincremental procurement are excluded.
Margins we inspire trust and loyalty in our customers.
We have 1 at8.0 per cent weredown, influenced in particular by worked with many of our customers for many years increased levels of procurement.
Further detail can and continue to build on these long-term relationships.
Our targeted EPS of For example, the strength of our relationship with greater than 100pence isnow expected tobe achieved Kuwait Oil Company KOC helped us win a 16-month 2 before 2015: in2012 we were up 14 per centat 80.4 pence, project management consultancy PMC project, 71 per cent higher thanwhen the targetwas set in 2009. remediating and disposing of highly contaminated material resulting from the Gulf War.
New customers I would to thank AMECs employees for their hard work won in 2012 include Talisman, TAQA and Centrica and commitment in achieving the successes shown here and elsewhere in this report.
1 As defined on page 3 2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations beforeintangible amortisation and exceptional items.
8 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials we need to recruit and retain the best people and keep 2015 and beyond them safe at work.
This has a direct impact on our With a strong track record of success, it would be easy reputation and financial results.
We track a number of forus to be complacent.
However, I firmly believe that no non-financial metrics in this area, some of which are company can take success for granted: we need to adapt shown on pages 10 and 24.
Successfully resourcing ifwe are to survive and prosper in a changing world.
for new projects is vital and in 2012 we recruited some In October 2012 we introduced a new, geographic 800 people each month to join AMEC structureand promoted Simon Naylor, John Pearson and our safety focus remains crucial.
Although our lost Hisham Mahmoud to the new roles of Group Presidents time injury frequency rate reduced from 0.04 per ofAmericas, Europe and Growth Regions respectively.
200,000 exposure hours to 0.03, our Total Recordable Wewant to maximise growth opportunities in each of our Case Frequency Rate increased slightly, from 0.37 to four markets, providing consistent services across each 0.38.
We will continue to focus on improvements in ofthe geographies.
This is not about changing our vision, 2013 and will continue to seek to engineer safety into mission, values or strategy it is about our tactics and our our designs sense of urgency.
We now have a simplified, more agile structure with a greater focus on collaboration and the quality of submissions for our HSSE awards fostering sustainable growth.
The 2012 winners included those who intervened to perform CPR and so save the life At the global conference in December 2012, some ofa colleague: and the team working on the Chirag 60ofAMECs senior managers discussed how the oilproject in Azerbaijan.
Here there are 16 different newstructure will operate: what new opportunities it nationalities on a major fabrication site yet by improving throws up: and how quickly these can be crystallised.
two-way communication they have achieved over Weare clear that we expect growth to continue in 15million exposure hours without a lost time incident boththeAmericas and in Europe, but see the greatest opportunities in Growth Regions, where we need to we continue to focus on our carbon footprint.
Sadly, establish more and stronger localised positions.
greater transparency of North American activities has caused an apparent increase from 2.3 to 3.8 tonnes of Summary carbon per employee, despite many good initiatives in In 2013, we expect ongoing economic uncertainty and other areas morechallenging conditions in certain areas.
Overall wecontinue to expect growth, with our conventional we have been taking an increasingly collaborative oil&gas business forecast to grow strongly.
approach, providing consistent quality to our customers, despite projects being worked on across The next stage on our journey is 2015 and beyond.
One example is the Oyu Tolgoi focus on our customers and our people will continue but project in Mongolia, where our project staff are drawn increasingly we will be promoting how by collaborating, from locations as far apart as China and Canada improving and growing we can ensure we are achieving we continue to promote a strong engagement with the our targets.
Our goal is to be a trusted partner: the communities in which we work.
For example, in 2012 supplierof choice for our customers: the employer of we provided solar power and rainwater harvesting to choice for our people: and the company of choice for an SOS Childrens Village in Nigeria and worked with ourinvestors.
the children at an elementary school in Georgia, US The words may sound glib our task is to turn these onsimilar issues aspirations into reality as successfully as we have done previously.
We will do this by focusing on what we are our growth is both organic and by acquisition.
In 2012 we goodat and what matters to our clients.
expanded our position in the UK with the acquisition of 600 nuclear specialists, positioned ourselves in Australia for the provision of environmental and infrastructure services, and invested in Brazil.
We also expanded future growth opportunities with the creation of a joint Samir Brikho venture with Samsung and a collaboration agreement Chief Executive with Aibel.
These and other similar examples are 14 February 2013 expanded on elsewhere in this report.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 9
