Chief Executives letter Justin King Chief Executive Opportunities for continuing growth Our market share is its highest for nearly a decade, driven by Dear shareholder, underlying market beating like-for-like sales growth of 2.1 per cent excluding fuel.
In the business review you will see how Having achieved 29 quarters we are building towards a future of continued success.
We are of like-for-like sales growth, confident that our investment plans will drive further growth, while contributing to additional improvements in returns.
Sainsburys is not only a strong business with a successful core Helping customers Live Well for Less We believe in quality for everyone, in everything we do.
We now of food and non-food retailing, have 22 million customer transactions a week, an increase of one million on last year.
We have succeeded by understanding but also a business with real what our customers want and delivering universal appeal to opportunities for further growth.
help them Live Well for Less.
They want a great deal, whether they are on a tight budget, have a bit more to spend or simply We remain focused on doing want to treat themselves.
In Brand Match we now have the best and simplest tool in the market to help customers appreciate a great job for customers and our great value.
Similarly, our Nectar loyalty programme helping them Live Well for Less.
continues to be a key source of competitive advantage.
The data enables us to understand our customers better and to offer them efficient, meaningful and targeted promotions, which in turn helps us increase customer loyalty.
Great food Offering great food at fair prices remains at the heart of what we do.
While price remains important, customers do not want to compromise on quality and demand great service.
We have invested heavily in this over recent years and will continue to do so.
One of our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan commitments is to double the amount of British food we sell by 2020, and this year we sold more British produce than ever before.
Our own label investment goes from strength to strength and we are seeing tangible results, with nearly nine per cent growth in Taste the Difference, over half of our by Sainsburys products improved and re-launched, and basics now the second biggest supermarket value brand.
4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Business review Business review Chief Executives letter continued Compelling general merchandise and clothing Our customers trust Sainsburys Our general merchandise and clothing businesses continue to grow faster than our food business and gain share in fiercely to do the right thing and expect competitive markets.
Direct sourcing, in particular, has helped us to maintain high social, us forge better relationships with our suppliers and provide better deals for our customers.
ethical and environmental standards across all aspects Complementary channels and services Customers expect to shop whenever, wherever and however of our business.
We see the opportunities this provides and are integrating new technology, channels and services into our business to serve customers in new ways.
We have the fastestOur values make us different growing online business of any major food retailer.
We have a We have a clear vision: to be the most trusted retailer, where convenience business of scale that is expanding by one to two people love to work and shop.
Our goal is to make all our stores a week, growing total and like-for-like sales well ahead of customers lives easier every day by offering great quality the market, and helping customers to shop locally and manage and service at fair prices.
Our values are critical to achieving their weekly bills.
We already have a Click & Collect facility in this.
Our customers trust Sainsburys to do the right thing and over 900 stores, one of the UKs largest networks, designed expect us to maintain high social, ethical and environmental to make shopping easier and more flexible.
We will continue to standards across all aspects of our business.
Our values are invest in these channels, and to find new ways to improve the part of what make us different from other supermarkets, so customer experience.
we see this as a strength, as well as a responsibility.
In October 2011, we published our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan to ensure Developing new business we continue to lead in this aspect of business, and derive We are also investing beyond our core and developing new long-term, sustainable advantage from it.
By moving into areas that are a natural extension of our brand such as banking, pharmacy and energy we aim One example of this is carbon: our absolute electricity to grow value based on the trust people have in Sainsburys, consumption for supermarkets has reduced by 9.1 per cent our colleagues and our values.
Sainsburys Bank has enjoyed over the past four years, despite an increase in space of another successful year with a 40 per cent increase in pre- 25 per cent.
It is this approach which has led to Sainsburys tax operating profit.
Our strategy of rewarding Sainsburys being rated the highest performer relative to our sector shoppers with double Nectar points for choosing to bank with across all three pillars of environmental, social and governance us has been a major factor in this growth.
practices in the internationally respected FTSE4Good Index.
Growing space and creating property value Looking forward Growing our UK sales space remains central to our strategy.
As we look to the year ahead, we do so with the benefits of This year we opened a further 1.4 million sq ft of space, our clear strategy, customer insight and strong culture.
We are adding 19 new supermarkets and 73 new convenience stores demonstrating that delivering quality and value is a compelling to our estate.
We also extended 28 stores by an average of offer for customers.
The economic climate is likely to remain 18,000 sq ft, as we continue to bring our non-food ranges to challenging and we are committed to helping customers Live more UK customers.
There are areas of the country where we Well for Less.
However, in the year ahead, there are many do not yet have a strong presence, and we continue to expand reasons to be cheerful as a nation.
We know our customers our coverage to reach them.
At the same time we are also trust us to make their celebrations truly special and memorable creating valuable property assets for our shareholders and our from national occasions like the Diamond Jubilee, Olympics property estate is now valued at 11.2 billion, with development and Paralympics, to more personal and family events.
activity delivering 83 million property profits this year.
We will continue to use these assets to help fund our growth.
We are focused on ensuring that we continue to succeed for our customers, our colleagues and, of course for you our Operational excellence shareholders, in what is set to be a year like no other.
When we invest in new stores, technology or processes, we do so with strict control of the capital spent to ensure appropriate returns.
By carefully managing costs we have improved operating margins yet further, with over 100 million of operational savings this year, contributing to almost 600 million of cost savings over five years.
This is a result of improved productivity, ongoing procurement savings and simplification of in-store processes.
Justin King Chief Executive Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 5
