John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 12 Living our V Living g our Values alues Claire Buchanan, Production Operator Improver for Wood Group PSN.
On our duty holder services contract for the Hummingbird FPSO, we are focused on meeting our customers needs for safe asset operation.
Safety & Assurance Hummingbird team, Wood Group PSN, UK The opportunity arose to perform the annual major shutdown of Hummingbird earlier than scheduled, and with very limited planning time available just six weeks.
The team members all demonstrated that they are living the Safety & Assurance Core Value by delivering a safe and efficient project against tight timescales and in adverse weather conditions.
During the year we negotiated contract new maintenance work in Melbourne and Wood Group PSN renewals and extensions worth over continue to work for clients including Exxon $800 million.
We were also awarded the Mobil and Woodside.
In Africa, we remain 2012 2011 operations & maintenance contract for active in Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria $m $m Change Premier Oils Balmoral FPV, the browneld and Angola.
In the Caspian, we are providing engineering work on Totals Franklin eld facilities engineering and commissioning Revenue 3,690.7 3,012.7 22.5% and the hook-up and commissioning scope services to customers including EBITA 205.0 153.2 33.8% for Nexens Golden Eagle project.
EBITA margin 5.6% 5.1% 0.5pts The Americas accounted for around 30% Outlook of revenue.
Growth in North America was People 29,200 26,200 11% Wood Group PSN is well placed to deliver strong, particularly in the US shale regions a strong performance in 2013.
In 2012 where we saw good organic growth and we signed new contracts and renewals benefited towards the end of the year from worth around $3.6 billion in revenue, which the Duval and Mitchells acquisitions in positions us well for the future.
Looking In Wood Group PSN, revenue and EBITA the oil-rich Eagle Ford and Bakken regions ahead, the North Sea should benefit growth of 23% and 34% respectively, respectively.
Our offshore activities in the from spending on integrity management, include a full 12 month contribution from the Gulf of Mexico also performed well.
operational assurance and production PSN business acquired in April 2011. International markets, outside the North initiatives.
In North America we expect Headcount increased by 11% from 26,200 to Sea and the Americas, represent around further growth from our US shale activities, 29,200 due to increases in Oman, the North 30% of revenue.
In Oman, the loss for and in international markets we expect to Sea and the USA, together with the impact the year was around $20 million.
Despite see a significant improvement from the of acquisitions.
this poor performance, we made good progress we are making in Oman.
progress on a number of matters and are We saw a good performance in the North increasingly confident of seeing a significant Sea, which accounted for around 40% of improvement in 2013, and that 2014 will Wood Group PSN revenue.
Activity on our be profitable.
Elsewhere in the Middle East operations & maintenance and browneld we announced our first contract award in engineering scopes on longer-term Kurdistan with DNO for engineering and contracts, including with BP, Shell, Talisman support services on the Tawke eld.
In and TAQA, contributed to growth in 2012.
Australia, we were awarded significant Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements Financial statements 13 were also awarded multi-year maintenance smaller contracts awarded in 2012.
We are Wood Group GTS contracts covering Sakhalin island for SEIC, pursuing a number of good near term Power the Brent assets in the North Sea for Shell Solutions opportunities in the Americas and 2012 2011 and the Sacramento Power Authoritys elsewhere, although these are smaller in $m $m Change industrial facility in California.
Having experienced delays in project awards, we anticipate a lower contribution Revenue 1,343.3 1,195.5 12.4% Power Solutions delivered EBITA slightly up from Power Solutions in 2013. on 2011.
We have now completed our GWF EBITA 88.6 78.8 12.4% contract, recognising a profit on the contract EBITA margin 6.6% 6.6% overall.
The Dorad contract has progressed largely as anticipated and is due to complete People 3,400 3,400 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Towards the end of 2012, we commenced work on our smaller contracts with NRG and Pasadena Revenue and EBITA increased by 12% Water and Power.
reecting growth in both Maintenance and Power Solutions.
Headcount was in line with the position at December 2011.
Outlook In GTS we anticipate continued Maintenance revenues were up on 2011 improvement in Maintenance in 2013, and EBITA increased by around 10%.
Our principally due to operational improvement aero derivative joint ventures, which are initiatives.
The European power-related predominantly oil & gas related, made Maintenance market is expected to remain a strong contribution.
EBITA margins soft but we believe that we will see some improved, largely due to our increased focus improvement in the USA.
In Power Solutions, on operating efficiency initiatives across our we remain on course to complete the Maintenance activities.
During the year, we Dorad contract in 2013 together with the Living our Values Relationships Marcelle Yee Keow, Wood Group GTS, USA Marcelle manages all projects for a major client.
She is responsible for supporting the requirements for gas turbine auxiliary equipment, such as lube oil, water injection and pumping systems.
Don Cramer and Philip Booth, Marcelle has built up a strong relationship Wood Group GTS.
Our test centres with the customer, and received plaudits ensure quality of service to our customers.
from them for her commitment and support, while supporting them for the past three years.
