8 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Chief Executives Statement I am very pleased to say that Johnson Matthey had a good year in 2011 12, Neil Carson Chief Executive continuing our strong financial performance and making good progress towards improving our environmental, health and safety performance.
We have also increased our focus on developing our people and on defining and disseminating our culture, both of which are key to the success of our growing global business.
The year has also seen us making good progress on our strategy of delivering superior value to our stakeholders through technology leadership, continuing to increase our investment in research and development and in state of the art manufacturing facilities around the world.
The year saw good growth across all three of our divisions.
Sales excluding We have made good precious metals sales were substantially progress this year on ahead of last year, up 17% at 2.7 billion, and the rate of growth in underlying our strategy of delivering operating profit was higher, at 23%.
superior value to our Our Environmental Technologies stakeholders through Division had a very good year.
Its Emission technology leadership, Control Technologies ECT business benefited from good growth in sales of light continuing to increase our duty catalysts, ahead of growth in global investment in research and vehicle production, and a substantial development and state of increase in demand for heavy duty diesel the art manufacturing catalysts, particularly in North America.
Our Process Technologies business performed facilities around the world.
well boosted by another excellent year from Davy Process Technology DPT and a good contribution from our Additives business formerly Intercat, which was acquired in November 2010.
Precious Metal Products Division also performed well, especially in the first six months of the year.
After a very strong first half, precious metal prices softened in response to concerns over the global economy which adversely impacted the divisions Services businesses.
Its Manufacturing businesses saw good demand across their product range.
Fine Chemicals Division exceeded our expectations, delivering excellent results in 2011 12, supported by a very strong performance from its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing businesses.
Its global Research Chemicals business also grew well in the year.
9 For the group as a whole, revenue the growth and success of the company of the headwinds in the first half of was 20% up on last year at 12 billion in the last few years.
Manufacturing is at 2011 12 associated with higher rare earth and sales were 2.7 billion, 17% higher the very heart of our business.
It is how material prices and the Japanese than last year.
Underlying operating profit we bring our science and technology to earthquake should ensure that ECT will was 23% higher at 450.1 million, while life and deliver what our customers want, perform well in the first six months of this underlying profit before tax was also when they want it.
Process Technologies is also well 23% up at 426.0 million.
The groups established and launched a groupwide placed for another year of growth, underlying return on sales increased to Manufacturing Excellence programme.
benefiting from the ongoing strong 16.8% from 16.1% last year, primarily due I believe that this important initiative will demand for DPTs licences and for to operational leverage, particularly in our better equip us to produce high technology additives.
heavy duty diesel catalyst business, and products for our customers in the most Precious Metal Products Divisions the excellent performance from our higher sustainable and efficient way and will bring performance is, as we have outlined margin DPT business.
major benefits to our business in the years before, more dependent upon precious Sustainability is a key element of our ahead.
metal prices and their recent falls, if strategy for growth and is well embedded Our people play a vital role in the maintained, will impact the divisions in all of our businesses and embraced by success of our business, they truly are our Services businesses.
In addition, these our employees around the world.
Their training and businesses suffer from relatively tough continue to make good progress towards development and protection of their health, comparatives as metal prices and refining achieving our Sustainability 2017 Vision via safety and wellbeing have long been, and intakes were strong in the first half of the challenging targets that we set remain, key priorities.
Therefore, if precious metal ourselves when we launched it back in to make good progress during the year in prices remain at current levels, the December 2007.
Our sustainability strategy developing our systems and improving performance of the Services businesses in and targets are subject to continuous performance in these very important areas.
the first half of 2012 13 will be significantly review and during the year we have made lower than in 2011 12.
The Manufacturing some changes to our targets which are businesses are expected to make progress Outlook outlined on page 15 of this annual report.
After another year of strong growth, the In particular we have taken a detailed look The performance of our Fine group is well positioned for the year ahead.
at our commitment to reduce carbon Chemicals Division in 2011 12 exceeded However, once again, it is difficult to emissions from our operations.
our expectations and the strong drivers for assess with any degree of confidence how Over the last few years we have the business remain in place.
Continued the global economy, especially in Europe, gained a much better understanding of demand for our existing APIs, the will develop in the short term.
This carbon legislation, markets and emissions introduction of new products and further uncertainty has resulted in a substantial from our processes and we have come to geographic expansion of our Research fall in precious metal prices over the last the conclusion that carbon neutrality is not Chemicals business footprint should few months, despite robust demand.
an appropriate target for a growing ensure that we have another strong year.
Nonetheless, we remain confident that our manufacturing business like ours.
However, In the longer term, we are continuing strong position in markets with structural we remain committed to driving down our to expand our manufacturing capacity growth will allow us to make further carbon emissions as much as is realistically around the world and to invest in R&D.
progress in Environmental Technologies possible and with effect from 1st April Together, this should enable us to provide and Fine Chemicals in 2012 13.
This, 2012 we have replaced carbon neutrality products that satisfy tightening global however, will be offset by a weaker with a new target to halve our carbon legislation and that meet the growing performance from Precious Metal intensity, relative to our 2007 baseline demand from our customers.
We have Products, if precious metal prices remain figure, by 2017.
I believe that this continues strong positions in markets that will see at current levels.
structural growth over the next few years The outlook for our Environmental Johnson Matthey is extremely well and, despite current global economic Technologies Division remains positive.
placed to benefit from a combination of uncertainties, we are confident of the Emission Control Technologies should improvements to the efficiency and groups continuing growth potential.
benefit from the continued development of environmental performance of its own the heavy duty diesel catalyst market and manufacturing operations and from anticipated growth in light duty vehicle developing new products that bring production in North America and Asia.
significant sustainability benefits to our However, we remain cautious about the customers.
Operational improvements and outlook for European car and truck increased efficiency have undoubtedly markets.
Notwithstanding that, the removal Neil Carson been making a significant contribution to Chief Executive
