Chief Executives Review fide livering against our targets For the fifth consecutive year we have met our annual production targets.
The major challenge during 2012 came from rising costs at our current operations and improving operational efficiency in order to reduce costs remains a key focus for management.
In 2012, we made significant progress on our major growth projects, which are central to the development and transformation of Kazakhmys.
In 2012, we produced 292 kt of copper In 2013, we anticipate that output of The Power Division is dominated by nished copper will be similar to 2012.
Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power station cathode from own material, a reduction Copper grades are likely to decline modestly, in Kazakhstan, in which Kazakhmys has a of 2% on the previous year.
As anticipated, in line with our medium-term mine plan, 50% share.
The Division has continued to our output was derived from a 12% increase but will be offset by higher ore volumes.
perform well, assisted by the commissioning in mined ore, which had an average copper By-product output will be marginally lower of a further unit at Ekibastuz GRES-1 during grade of 0.95% compared to 1.01% in the across all metals.
The rate of ination has December 2012.
Total power generated previous year.
The reduction in grade was moderated, although there are still cost at Ekibastuz GRES-1 increased by 13% to largely due to the recommissioning of Konyrat, pressures in the industry.
We will continue 14,368 GWh, which along with a 12% rise a relatively low-grade open pit mine.
The with our optimisation projects to raise in the average realised tariff led to an 18% processing of additional material along with recovery rates at our processing plants, increase in the Power Divisions EBITDA ination in salaries and higher transportation improve the throughput and handling excluding special items to $189 million.
costs led to a sharp increase in operating costs.
of materials and obtain greater labour There was some rebuild of inventory during When Kazakhmys first purchased a stake in efficiency.
We believe that there is much 2012, so that sales declined by 4% to 282 kt.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 in 2008, we set out plans more to be done in all of these areas, for a $1 billion refurbishment programme, with the strategic aim of ensuring adequate The average LME price of copper over self-funded from the plants operating cash cash generation for the maintenance and the year was $7,949 per tonne, 10% below ows.
$483 million has been invested to extension of our existing asset base.
The performance of copper was date, including $38 million on environmental considerably better than most non-precious Meeting our production targets has improvements.
Two of the original eight metals, and is testament to its strong been to the credit of all my colleagues, 500 MW turbines are still to be refurbished, demand and supply fundamentals, even and I should like to thank them for their which will then restore Ekibastuz GRES-1 in weak economic conditions.
We have seen further to its nameplate capacity of 4,000 MW.
in the copper price, lower copper sales improvement in our management of health The refurbishment programme remains on volumes and a rise in costs led to a 36% and safety issues, however, it is clear that schedule and is due to be completed in 2016. fall in EBITDA excluding special items we still have considerable work to do in In 2013 we will be continuing work on the at our Mining Division to $1,160 million.
promoting and ensuring the safety of rehabilitation of the seventh turbine, our workforce.
which will be commissioned in 2014.
8 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Chief Executives Review Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 14 Key Performance Indicators 28 Operating Review The market value of our holding in ENRC In 2012 we spent $624 million on sustaining until the end of the year to ensure a smooth was worth $1,546 million at the end of 2012, capital expenditure in the Mining Division, transition.
I should like to thank him for his compared to $3,289 million at the end of signicantly higher than 2011, including exceptional input over the past eight years.
The holding was purchased at an around $180 million on projects relating to Matthew joined Kazakhmys before Listing average price of 575 pence per share, below new mine developments and concentrator and he led the creation of a strong finance the previous carrying value of 786 pence per upgrades.
In 2013, we anticipate that function which enabled us to put in place share.
We have reviewed the carrying value sustaining capital expenditure will reduce the debt facilities necessary to deliver our of the holding and on a value-in-use basis, to between $450 million and $550 million, growth projects and to meet high standards required by accounting standards, and have including around $150 million on new mine of reporting.
Andrew Southam, the current revised the carrying value to $2,027 million, developments and concentrator upgrades.
Deputy Chief Financial Officer, will become or 375 pence per share, representing an Chief Financial Officer from May 2013.
The major growth projects are backed by impairment of $2,223 million.
EBITDA $4.2 billion of long-term funding, lent by The outlook for copper remains the most excluding special items at ENRC declined the China Development Bank.
The nature attractive of any industrial metal.
By managing by 43% to $548 million, impacted by of the funding gives a high level of certainty our existing assets efficiently and delivering lower commodity prices.
to our delivery of the projects.
Gearing will our growth projects we believe that we can The combination of earnings from our increase as the spending on the projects transform Kazakhmys over the medium managed businesses and ENRC led to rises, but the long dated maturity of the debt term, so that by 2018 around 80% of our Group EBITDA of $1,912 million, compared reduces strain on our cash ows and allows ore output will be from open pit mines, to $2,925 million in 2011.
EPS, based on prudent management of our balance sheet.
dominated by five large and low-cost Underlying profit, was 94 US cents per operations and taking us to production of In 2012 65% of our copper sales were to share, benefitting from lower tax payments, over 500 kt per annum.
Most of our customers have been but impacted by a charge for future disability reporting on our progress in 2013 as we with us for many years, and I thank them payments, following an actuarial recalculation continue to invest in and grow our business.
of the Groups disability benets provision.
Our Chief Financial Officer, Matthew Hird, Oleg Novachuk In 2012 we made excellent progress on has decided that he wishes to step down in Chief Executive our growth projects.
Bozshakol moved into May 2013, but will remain with Kazakhmys development and a significant part of the site preparation and infrastructure foundations was completed during the year.
In 2013, we look forward to the delivery and installation Delivering against our targets of the major processing equipment.
Hiring and training the operational staff is now well Copper production underway and will be critical for successful In 2012 we produced 292 kt of copper cathode from our own ore.
This was in line commissioning in 2014.
Bozshakol remains with the annual target of between 285 kt and 295 kt.
The volume of mined ore on track for first production in 2015 and in increased, which put pressure on costs.
In 2013 we anticipate producing a similar line with the budget of $1,900 million.
amount of nished copper to 2012.
The Aktogay feasibility study was approved in By-product output December 2012 and initial development work The production of our principal by-products, zinc, silver and gold, was above our will start in early 2013 with first production annual targets at 152 kt, 12.6 Moz and 129 koz, respectively.
By-product output is from the main ore body in 2016.
Bozymchak, likely to reduce slightly in 2013. the gold and copper project in Kyrgyzstan, has Power been affected by the availability of materials The Power Division benefited from increased demand for power and the and skilled labour during its early development, commissioning of a sixth turbine at Ekibastuz GRES-1, in which we have a 50% but good progress is now being made and first stake.
Output at Ekibastuz GRES-1 increased by 13% to 14,368 GWh.
The output will be produced in 2013. refurbishment of the last two turbines is continuing.
We continue to work on several mid-sized Costs copper projects, largely based around our Our net production cost for copper, of 174 USc per pound, nished within our existing operations.
These projects include target range of 150 to 180 USc per pound.
Net costs benefited from by-product Akbastau and Kosmurun, Zhomart and volumes and prices, though the overall cost base saw significant ination from salaries, South East Nurkazgan.
The projects have transportation costs and higher ore volumes.
Management are focused on carrying considerable potential, but the speed of through a variety of programmes to contain cost pressures and raise efficiency.
progress will partly be inuenced by the availability of funding, while we deliver Health and safety our major growth projects.
Improving our health and safety performance is our main operational priority with a core objective of zero fatalities.
This requires a significant change in behaviours and working practices, assisted by continued investment.
We have seen some improvement, but with 19 fatalities in 2012, there is clearly much to do.
