Business review 12 Chief Executives review new shops paying back on average year in succession assisted by our Richard Glynn examines in around 2.5 years, we are confident strong control of costs.
in further opportunities to grow the business performance During the year we strengthened our estate.
Next year we plan to open 100 position as the clear market leader in in 2012 and expands on new shops on a net basis, targeting machines.
Only two years ago, our areas that are currently under supplied.
our performance performance placed us third or fourth in the market.
Since that time through Enhancing trading capability objectives for 2013. a determination to create the best Increased OTC profitability in 2012 was possible offer for our customers we driven largely by a strengthening of have added a further 84 million of our horseracing and football margins.
Sporting results are a key factor in determining the performance of any Our competitors are not standing still betting business and there is no doubt and the machines market is constantly that results in 2012, particularly across developing: we will be working hard to football during the second half of the develop our offer further in order to year, have been favourable when maintain our market leading position.
In 2013 we will start the rollout of a new, advanced machine cabinet which Results however are only part of offers customers more interactive the equation.
More significant is features through improved technology.
whether the business is well placed to We will also continue to offer the maximise returns and minimise losses broadest and most exciting range of consistently.
In that respect, we have taken great strides this year to leverage content, introducing new and exclusive the investment in our new trading games throughout the year.
Better technology, increased Revenue growth in our OTC business automation and the continual evolution Richard Glynn during 2012 was in spite of a significant of monitoring tools and algorithms are reduction in UK horseracing meetings, Chief Executive Officer enabling our trading teams to develop with the calendar affected by the more control: decreasing volatility, British weather throughout the year.
whilst still ensuring a competitive 2012 has been an important year for We are encouraged that the number product.
In short we are improving Ladbrokes.
We have increased revenues of customers coming into Ladbrokes the quality of our earnings.
in every major division of the business, shops to place a bet has remained grown underlying earnings, further broadly flat during the year, showing This has benefited all parts of the strengthened our balance sheet by that the popularity of retail bookmaking business, with tangible improvements reducing net debt and also increased endures, alongside growth in online in our Digital and Retail gross win our dividend to shareholders by 14.1%.
We expect to be able to However, 2012 has been important not develop this further in the year ahead We face several specific headwinds only because of a strong financial with more innovation continuing within UK Retail in 2013.
The introduction performance, but because of the throughout 2013. of Machine Games Duty and ongoing significant progress we have continued operational cost pressures, particularly Developing customer value to make in developing the business.
regarding horseracing picture rights Over the past two years we have Growing on the UK high street are significant and we will address invested in technology to enable us to The performance of UK Retail in 2012 them as part of a clear and focused deliver the best products and customer further demonstrates the continuing growth agenda.
This includes an experiences to our Digital customers.
appeal of betting on the high street.
improved sports experience with more We have redefined our core IT 2012 was a record year for shop broadcast events, an increased retail architecture, increased the flexibility revenues and it is pleasing to see Bet in Play offer via more self service of core supplier relationships, growth driven by Over the Counter betting, new video walls and the trial of significantly expanded the range of OTC and machines.
Operating profit new shop formats designed to create a products offered to customers and more interactive environment for staff growth in UK Retail has been strong developed a new proprietary trading and customers.
With our investment in with profit per shop ahead for the third platform.
By the end of March 2013 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 s e c n e i r e p x l e a r t e i Business review Flexible technology platform g m i o D t s u c e u q i n U E u d Y n o r a l u o i r r a p b e t e s x e a e c Business review 13 we will have launched a new Digital outcomes and we will continue to with the number of mobile customers sportsbook, with a new mobile explore opportunities which will help growing up to five times quicker than those using traditional digital means.
us accelerate this process going forward.
We expect this to lead to During the year we have continued to The focus for the business can now improving metrics as the year develop the Ladbrokes Sports Betting turn to growing net revenue per progresses, with growth in net revenue app, improving functionality and customer.
The ongoing development of and Digital profits, particularly during usability as well as adding more our new Active Data Warehouse, which the second half of 2013. innovative features.
We have also is beginning to enable more effective delivered more gaming product, insight into customer behaviour is Aiming to lead in mobile particularly on tablet with a new live the foundation for this.
In parallel, we Mobile is the key driver of growth in dealer casino and several exclusive have begun to improve our Customer the digital market.
Mobile devices are slots games.
Relationship Management capabilities, portable, convenient and increasingly refining the way in which customers popular.
They are driving a trend Our new mobile platform will be live are segmented, developed and towards more spontaneous during the first half of 2013.
It has rewarded as well as working closer consumption of betting and gaming been developed in parallel with new with key suppliers and product experts.
Over 33% of our Digital Application Programming Interface This has started to show some positive customers bet via a mobile device, API technology, which enables us to Our business model Regulation Customer Data & CRM Responsibility Ladbrokes is in the business of providing excitement to customers.
We deliver the excitement of sports betting and gaming in retail, online, via tablet, mobile and on the telephone.
We are building on our brand leadership and heritage in the UK, Ireland and Belgium by expanding into new markets like Spain, and by establishing a presence in markets with significant future potential like China and the USA.
In developing our product offer in each market we are governed not only by regulatory frameworks, but by a commitment to corporate and social responsibility.
Our approach is to put the customer at the heart of what we do, develop best of breed products utilising a newly invested flexible technology platform to deliver unique customer experiences.
com ar2012 R i k t n o e K r R m b U d e e a t n L a t i l s e c n e i r l e a p n x e o i r t e a Best of breed product m n o r t e s t u n c I e u q i n U Business review 14 adopt a flexible approach to launching we will roll out new Self Service Betting Chief Executives review apps, allowing the simultaneous Terminals, increase our presence continued development of a variety of products all in Valencia and expect to confirm targeted to meet the needs of different opportunities for expansion into further groups of customers.
We also continue to develop release new products quickly will be a our nascent businesses in the USA real advantage in a market which is and China, both of which offer great evolving rapidly.
We expect to launch potential for future growth.
Investing in our people Growing our international We are investing in making Ladbrokes business a great place to work for our 15,000 Our retail businesses in Ireland, people.
Employee engagement is Belgium and Spain contributed more critical to this, and we have rolled out than 20 million operating profit several development programmes during 2012, an increase of over 50%.
during 2012, aimed at giving people Despite tough economic conditions in the motivation to go above and beyond Ireland our business there has been to help Ladbrokes succeed.
We expect legislation allowing Our Vision & Values programme is extended shop opening hours in the a long term initiative designed to give Republic of Ireland to be introduced absolute clarity on how all of our during the second half of 2013. people can make faster, better In Belgium we expect further growth decisions using a common framework.
to be driven by the anticipated It has been rolled out during the year introduction of machines to shops.
through a series of roadshows, In Spain, our joint venture business, publications, videos and team Sportium is now generating positive development sessions, specifically cash flow in Madrid and Aragon, regions where the business remains with the aim of raising awareness the clear market leader.
During 2013 and understanding of the companys 1 2 Our Retail Digital excellence capability str ategic The digital betting and Retail betting has evolved gaming market continues priorities to become a genuine leisure to grow and is becoming experience over recent increasingly competitive.
years in both our core UK We have made good progress market and overseas.
in developing flexible We strive to continually technology which allows us to innovate, providing customers deliver the broadest range of with a differentiated product products to customers, which offer, whilst optimising will be showcased on our new both margin and sportsbook website and operational efficiency.
UK profit per shop was up 16% in 2012, the third Net revenue growth of 9% driven consecutive year of growth by strength in sportsbook see KPIs on page 11 see KPIs on page 11 Clear market leader in 15% growth in Active players machinesin the UK.
Gross to in excess of 1 million win per machine week 946 see KPIs on page 11 see KPIs on page 11 Focus on product range drives 150% 51% operating profit growth across increase in Bet in Play events and our European Retail businesses 34% increase in amounts staked Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Business review 15 strategic direction, and the behaviours approach to tackling issues like perhaps even more critical, how the tax and core values required to take us problem gambling.
To further restrict will be enforced to prevent unregulated there faster.
regulated and licensed high street operators from targeting the UK market.
betting shops whether in terms of We have also this year launched a Outlook shop numbers or availability of product new talent development programme We have continued to make good would merely drive people to online to identify, nurture and stretch our progress throughout the Group during or mobile services which are freely high-potential employees, which is 2012.
The investments we have made available, or would give rise to an illegal essential for succession planning.
over the past two years to reinvigorate gaming machine market.
It would also By fostering an internal culture of the business are starting to drive have a significant economic impact on performance.
In 2013 we will invest excellence, we believe we will deliver high street employment.
We will further in our retail businesses and an even better experience for our play a full part in the forthcoming expect to see underlying benefits from customers and in turn become a Triennial Review of stakes and prizes our development of trading.
With the more successful business.
consultation and we are reassured that launch of our new website and mobile UK regulatory update the Governments current position is to services on track, our focus in Digital is We are currently facing an active and maintain the status quo.
on enhancing our customer relationship often misleading media and lobbying management capabilities.
We expect Other regulatory matters in the UK campaign in the UK targeted at both all of these to drive increasing include the introduction of Machine shops and in particular gaming customer appeal and continued Games Duty and the draft bill to machines.
We continue to work both improvements in our operational regulate offshore gambling operators.
as a company and alongside industry and financial performance.
We continue to engage with Treasury organisations like the ABB to tackle the on the latest data supporting our case myths propagated by this well funded that Machine Games Duty is in fact a campaign.
We aim to ensure that tax increase on the industry and we Government, MPs and Local await the Culture, Media and Sport Councillors are fully aware of the Select Committees pre-legislative facts regarding betting shops.
scrutiny of the bill to regulate remote Ladbrokes is a responsible business gambling operators, where our key Richard Glynn and we continually develop our concerns are both the rate of tax and Chief Executive Officer 3 4 5 Pricing, trading Customer Regulatory and liability management and Brand leadership The development of a new Ladbrokes is still the The continued evolution proprietary trading platform, most recognised betting of tax and regulation is a key enhancement of algorithms brand in the UK.
Over influence on the development and increasing use of the last year we have of our business.
Ladbrokes automated trading tools, invested to evolve the plays a lead role in ensuring has enabled us to improve brand with an increasing that the Government and all liability management and emphasis on excitement.
regulatory authorities fully reduce earnings volatility.
The development of our understand our industry and offer, be it in Digital or its significant contribution to Investment in trading team and Retail, is centred around the economy, employment technology driving improved quality improving the experience of earnings across all channels and taxes.
Digital sportsbook gross win margin Continually developing our approach 1 up 100 basis points Spontaneous brand awareness to responsible gambling with a new ahead of competitors and growing staff training programme New trading platform facilitates following new marketing expansion of sportsbetting offer Working to ensure the industrys Odds On, our customer loyalty contribution to the economy and scheme, rolled out to machines communities is recognised Contributing to communities through New shop designs will enable the Ladbrokes in the Community us to increase interaction Charitable Trust and Ladbrokes with customers Community Fund 1 Based on TNS Omnibus survey of 2,084 18 adults.
