Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information 31', #11 0#4'#5 Chief Executives strategic review Selling value, not price L aird sells value not price.
The value that Laird sells is embedded in three strategic differentiators innovation, reliable fullment and speed.
These differentiators resonate with customers and enable the Group tocreate and capture value.
David Lockwood Chief Executive 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Business review Chief Executives strategic review Q&A with David Lockwood David Lockwood, Chief Executive, answers questions put to him regarding the Companys strategy How will you measure your How will you fund your strategy strategic progress?
Within Laird, we ensure our internal strategic measures match with Laird is an inherently cash-generative business.
That, combined with our external strategic targets.
At the Group, divisional and business the strength of our balance sheet, allows us to fund our ambitions for unit level, our targets for revenue growth, margin improvement investment in R&D, market development and bolt-on acquisitions, andcustomer diversication are all aligned to ensure that what we and at the same time allows us to reafrm our dividend commitment.
have committed externally to the outside world is what we also measure internally.
Have you already identied the new market segments and geographies you Where do you see the greatest want Laird to enter going forward?
opportunities for growth across Laird has opportunities across both geographic and sectoral markets.
both the Performance Materials We have analysed those sectors and geographies by the addressable and Wireless Systems divisions?
market and our current presence within them.
We have many diverse opportunities in both the Performance Growth markets for our existing businesses include China, Korea and Materials and the Wireless Systems divisions.
To deploy our business model we will ensure that, over time, we grow our engineering presence in Within Performance Materials, there is great scope to grow our these selected markets.
Similarly, there are major opportunities for customer base geographically and to grow in new market sectors, cross-marketing, taking the full Laird portfolio to existing customers whilst adding complementary capabilities to ensure we meet or a particular business.
Finally, there are attractive adjacent thefullscope of our customers needs.
The division focuses on markets where our existing customers can provide testament to sellingvalue not price and targets markets that exhibit long-term ourcredentials.
A video of this interview is available to view online at www.
com The Wireless Systems division operates in a market that is less mature than that of the Performance Materials division and therefore faces a broader range of strategic options.
There is the opportunity to move further into sub-system applications customising rmware and software and work more collaboratively across our different businesses.
There are a number of emerging trends in our core markets that will create the opportunity for us to grow our scope ofsupply.
12 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Chief Executives strategic review Strategy Lairds vision is a world where smart technology enables virtually everything to sense, think and communicate: transforming our way of life and empowering us to do more than we can imagine today Laird creates value by being a trusted partner to our customers, Innovation in new capabilities and delivering useful technology through innovation, reliable fullment, collaborative design andspeed.
As a partner in designing communication and electronics protection A common focus throughout Lairds diverse product range is reected solutions, Laird must deliver new technology to our customers.
This in the value we deliver to our customers.
Lairds products and includes the use of the latest material innovations in areas such as solutions are typically a small, but critical part of the large systems for metal alloys and polymer composites: new process capabilities like which they are designed.
Our customers have neither the extensive automated assembly and antennae designed through articial resources nor time to be experts in, or develop advanced solutions intelligence: and new applications expertise including interconnects in, antenae systems, EMI shielding, or thermal management.
Design and high-noise RF communications.
Laird is able to bring these broad in these areas, however, tends to be vital to the performance and palettes of solutions to customers across all its market segments.
protection of the final product ensuring that these solutions are We are committed to technology innovation, demonstrated by our continually being engineered away from commoditisation.
Laird sustained level of R&D investment.
See KPIs on pages 24 and 25. is able to not only provide the innovation and collaborative design necessary to bring the most advanced technology, but also to deliver this in a awless fashion and at market-pacing speeds.
Our customers Reliable fullment means providing the depend on Laird to make sure their products incorporate state-of-thehighest levels of delivery, quality, safety, art technologies and function beyond expectation.
and compliance Regardless of how novel or advanced Lairds designs and capabilities Our differentiation are, the cost of any error in delivering the products to customers can far exceed the value of the design.
Beyond simply being a confident Customer choice for our customers, Laird also brings high levels of business reliability and security.
By having processes and systems in place Speed Mindshare andthrough driving a culture of performance and risk management, Laird can ensure that it delivers reliably for customers.
Reliable Fullment Our speed allows our customers to exceed expectations in launching their products Innovation Lairds customers often face rapid product launch cycles.
Competition along with business and consumer expectations is relentlessly driving compression of these timelines.
Complementing the innovative solutions and assured delivery of our products, Laird drives marketpacing speed through the design and delivery cycle.
From product development timelines to initial customer engagements involving design iterations, prototypes and quotes through scale-up and production ramps, Laird offers more than being faster than other suppliers.
We set the pace and exceed the expectations of the market.
Our customers respond by adapting their product cycles to take advantage of Lairds capabilities further setting the Company apart from the rest of the pack and reinforcing Lairds position as a critical design partner.
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Business review Chief Executives strategic review Strategy Growth through strategic acquisition Delivering against our strategy As Laird pursues its strategy to win customer mindshare, a number Our Business Model drives our teams constantly to review the prole of opportunities arise to acquire capabilities or market access in new of our businesses and direct strategic decisions, whilst our targets business areas that t the overall strategic direction.
As the Wireless emphasise our strategic ambitions.
Systems division seeks to add value through the management of We have set targets that benchmark our progress, and in 2012, information, new software and applications will be vital to allow us we have improved operating margin, despite a lower growth to expand our available market.
The Performance Materials division environment.
We remain confident that we are positioned in the right will look to add new product and technology groups to its portfolio of markets for organic growth over the medium to long-term, and this capabilities, bringing even more value to customers andallow further will drive further profit improvement.
In support of our organic growth access to new market segments and regions of theworld.
ambitions we are increasing investment in targeted innovation and Our strong balance sheet allows us the opportunity to pursue further market entry strategies.
acquisition opportunities see Financial KPIs on pages 24 and 25 Internally, we are rolling out an enhanced programme of governance NetDebt: EBITDA and cash generation.
which will bring benets in 2013, and will ensure our risk mitigation and identication processes are much closer aligned to our strategy.
Customer diversication The risk framework is explained more in the Governance section on pages 53 and 54.
We have built up long-standing relationships with our larger customers, developing alongside them.
Our strategy is to remain diversied, serving a broad customer base across different market Strategic outlook segments and geographies.
In 2012, significant progress has been made to focus We understand the global trends driving growth in the wider market, the Company on its three primary sources of sustainable such as changing energy requirements and ubiquitous connectivity.
differentiation innovation, reliable fullment and speed.
These Our aim is to ensure we serve a wide range of customers across these are also the qualities that are most valued by Lairds customers.
The Company sells into global market segments with attractive growth prospects.
This, together with Lairds clear strategic focus and increase in investment, provides a good platform from which to deliver its medium to long-term targets.
We expect first quarter revenues to be at a similar level to last year as we continue to see the impact of our exit from lower margin business and as customers adjust inventory in their supply chains.
We expect revenues to be weighted towards the second half of the year, as a result of our and our customers product launches and seasonal factors, and we are confident of making good progress in 2013.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and demonstrable cash generation characteristics to fund further acquisitions, and drive further value for shareholders by enhancing Lairds capabilities and market access.
"14 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Thought leadership #, "" $-0 1 02 5-0 "" A smart world allows people the freedom Liberating work from the workplace they increasingly require to work remotely."
implies access to information wherever and whenever, enabled by a variety of Not only can people work from home, but go-anywhere devices.
Lairds continuing employees can move around their ofce innovation in Wireless Systems and or different company locations, accessing Performance Materials underpins the documents and emails with ease.
Laird is a market leader The rise in remote working will not only in wireless infrastructure, in-vehicle systems drive technology sales but have a cultural and radio modules that enable mobile impact on the way people interact with one connectivity, and our shielding, thermal another.
Companies are moving towards a management, power storage and signal bring your own device paradigm which will integrity solutions are relied upon in enable easier and more efficient business smaller, lighter and faster mobile devices.
Opportunities will arise, Laird does not just benefit from the trend driven by this paradigm shift, for product towards mobile work, Laird helps to shape it.
and services supporting security, network backbone and storage.
In the past, companies have tended to refresh their IT infrastructure equipment periodically or in line with regular budget cycles.
Some companies are now encouraging employees to use portable equipment, such as tablets, and purchasing these more frequently to reect the latest innovation in technology.
"15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Case study #', % &# 0"" -4# 2&#, -'1# # # 2'!1G m Increasing use of mobile data can be achallenge, especially in environments suchas stadia where tens of thousands of people demand connected Wi-Fi."
Not only do stadia have to cater to users, they need to maintain connectivity for business use such as point of sale and ticket scanning.
Lairds Wi-Fi modules are embedded into ticket scanners and point of sale machines in a growing number of stadia such as the Gillette Stadium, home of the New England Patriots, allowing devices to maintain Wi-Fi reliability with enterprise-grade security.
STOCK IMAGE 16 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
