Lonmin Plc Chief Executive Officers Review [ 09] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We delivered a solid operational performance in the 2012 financial year in spite of the significant disruptions that we experienced.
Operational improvement continues around our excellent assets Dear Fellow Shareholder, 1.
Introduction Both the Chairman and I have spoken in this report about the shocking events which took place at Marikana in 2012, their impact and effect on our Company, and South Africa more widely.
As the Acting Chief Executive Officer CEO, it is my role in this section of our Annual Report to review the year for our shareholders and to report on our performance.
Our success as a business is central to our ability to be a good corporate citizen of South Africa and to play our part in its transformation.
Everyone, then, has a stake in our success.
I am pleased to report that we delivered a solid operational performance in the 2012 financial year, in spite of the significant disruptions that we experienced.
The results reflect the healthy state of our operating assets and a team that is continuing to deliver in a challenging environment.
Taking the 2012 financial year as a whole total tonnes mined were 10.4 million, a 1.3 million tonnes decrease from 2011 as a result both of the Events at Marikana and the uncharacteristically high number of safety stoppages that were seen across the South African PGM mining industry during the first half.
This resulted in total refined production for 2012 of just under 690,000 Platinum ounces compared to just over 730,000 Platinum ounces in the previous year.
Sales of Platinum ounces were 702,000 helped by running down stocks in the pipeline.
Total revenue declined by US$378 million from 2011 to US$1,614 million for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Total underlying costs excluding the impact of the strike disruption in US Dollar terms decreased by US$134 million mainly due to the impact of cost escalations being offset by decreased production and positive foreign exchange movements.
Resulting underlying EBIT was US$67 million, although this is before special costs including those relating to the Events at Marikana and the impairment of Akanani.
After special items, which are detailed in the Financial Review, the loss before interest and taxation was US$702 million.
Our unit cost guidance of an 8.5% increase was exceeded as unit costs increased by 12.9% to R8,507 per PGM ounce produced as a result of the significant disruption to production we experienced.
On a normalised basis, unit costs would have increased by 5.2%.
Cash flow generated from operations was US$300 million although this benefited from the pre-paid sale of gold undertaken in the first half of the year and the reduction in closing stocks following the Events at Marikana.
Capital expenditure at US$408 million was less than guidance.
Total cash outflow was US$185 million leaving net debt at US$421 million.
Simon Scott Acting Chief Executive Officer www.
com Chief Executive Officers Review Lonmin Plc [ 10] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fatality Free Shifts We have been monitoring carefully our covenant As noted at the time of the Companys interim position in relation to our existing debt facilities.
results, productivity at all the mining divisions, While the covenants as at 30 September 2012 Karee, Middelkraal, Easterns and Westerns in were not breached our debt levels are likely to the first half of the year was impacted by an rise significantly over the coming months in order uncharacteristically high number of Section 54 to fund the production ramp up and enable stock safety stoppages, which were also seen across levels to be rebuilt through the production the whole South African PGM mining industry pipeline.
Indeed at 31 October 2012 net debt during this period.
The momentum established was approximately US$550 million.
In light of this, at the beginning of the second half was however we believe that the Company may breach its impacted by the Events at Marikana which covenants under the terms of the existing debt affected production of the whole operation.
The facilities when they are tested for the six months combined impact of these disruptions in the ended 31 March 2013, or subsequently, in the period was a loss of approximately 2.4 million event that the Company does not raise new tonnes, of which 1.8 million tonnes, equivalent to equity and secure the agreed amendments to its 110,000 mined Platinum ounces, was as a result existing bank facilities.
This is addressed in of the Events at Marikana.
disruptions we made good progress with our mining initiatives which aim to improve productivity.
Our immediately available ore reserves increased 2.
Safety by 14% to 3.3 million centares equal to 18 months.
Our commitment to zero harm and safe production This level of preparedness provides flexibility for in our work place remains undiminished.
Our safety initiatives have produced believe that while our fundamental approach to excellent results and this is reflected in the safety management remains sound, we continue number of industry safety awards that were won to learn from the root cause of each incident.
by the various mining teams and shafts.
Regrettably we recorded two mining related fatalities during the period and we extend our Our Line of Sight System to track production on a sincere condolences to the family and friends of daily basis and identify early technical bottlenecks Mr Albino Moises Cuna who died in December is progressing well and our production incentive 2011 and Mr Thobisani David Didi who died in bonus system is now fully rolled out.
The full year mining safety record, team effectiveness training has now been rolled absent these fatalities, has been commendable.
out at Karee and early indications are encouraging.
Lonmin achieved the lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR in the platinum industry of Processing 4.16 per million man hours worked, 11.7% lower I am pleased to report the success of a number than the 4.71 achieved in 2011.
Rowland shaft of initiatives in the Process Division in the 2012 continued to be an industry leader as it recorded financial year.
The Easterns Tailing Treatment the significant achievement of 12.9 million Fall of Plant was commissioned, coming into production Ground Fatality Free Shifts over a ten year period.
in April 2012, and has contributed to the We also recorded a best ever five million Fatality improvements in our overall recovery rates.
The Free Shifts for Lonmin as a whole.
We remain smelter complex has improved its flexibility and completely focused on improving our safety capacity through the rebuild and modification of the working in partnership with the Department of Number One furnace and the construction of the Mineral Resources DMR.
The first matte tap from Processing the Number Two furnace took place in July 2012.
Operational Review There is no question that the tragic events that In terms of performance the total tonnes milled took place at our Marikana operations in August during the 2012 financial year declined by 10% and September were hugely disruptive but I am to 10.8 million tonnes when compared against pleased to say that we are working well to 12.0 million tonnes in 2011.
This translated into stabilise the Company and bring production back total refined production for 2012 of just under to normal.
Following the addendum to the 690,000 Platinum ounces, compared to just over existing wage agreement signed at the end of 730,000 Platinum ounces in the previous year.
September, employee attendance is back to Despite the disruptions, we delivered underlying normal levels.
The production ramp up is operational improvements with total milled head currently going better than expected and we fully grade and overall concentrator recoveries anticipate that we will be operating at previously improving during the year.
achieved productivity run rates during the third The US Dollar basket price including base metal quarter of the 2013 financial year.
revenue at US$1,163 was 16.3% lower than the prior financial year.
The corresponding Rand Mining basket price including base metal revenue was In respect to the 2012 financial year, the total ZAR9,304, which was 4.2% lower than the 2011 tonnes mined were 10.4 million, a 1.3 million financial year.
tonnes decrease from the 2011 financial year.
See p 34 for more information See p 36 for more information Lonmin Plc Chief Executive Officers Review [ 11] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4.
Balance Sheet Structure The announcement of our results therefore In last years Annual Report, we provided coincides with the launch of a Rights Issue guidance on our planned capital expenditure of seeking to raise approximately US$817 million around US$450 million for the 2012 financial year, before costs, the intention for which we based on the then outlook for PGM markets.
In addition, the terms guidance was reiterated at our interim results in of our debt facilities will be revised subject to a May 2012, recognising the uncertain near term successful Rights Issue to provide greater outlook for PGM prices the price of platinum had funding flexibility.
More details on the agreed fallen from a 2012 peak of US$1,722 per ounce amendments to debt facilities are included in the on 28 February 2012 to US$1,440 by the time of Financial Review.
publication of the interim results on 14 May 2012, and stating our intention to defer future capital Rights Issue expenditure if appropriate.
The proceeds from the Rights Issue will be used to permanently reduce the Companys available By the time of publication of the Third Quarter US Dollar denominated borrowing facilities from Production Report on 26 July 2012, the platinum US$700 million to US$400 million and partially price had remained below US$1,500 per ounce pay down outstanding amounts on our remaining for more than eleven weeks, and we facilities.
Post the repayment, the US Dollar acknowledged that the weak pricing environment Revolving Facility of US$400 million and the other was likely to persist for longer than anticipated.
Facilities of approximately US$225 million will As a result, we announced that capital expenditure remain available to the Company.
This lower level would be reduced to around US$430 million in of borrowing will provide the flexibility we need to Equity Capital the 2012 financial year reflecting the proximity of fund the Companys normal working capital.
the year end and the lead time relating to capital expenditure programmes, and to around The UK issue price of 140 pence per new share US$250 million in each of 2013 and 2014 represents a discount of 44.4% to the theoretical financial years.
This reduction would be achieved ex-rights price TERP and a discount of 69.1% principally through the deferral of capital spend to the closing price of 452.8 pence per share on on the Hossy, K4 and Saffy shafts, as well as the Thursday 8 November.
The South African issue optimisation of some of the processing projects.
price of ZAR19.4872 per share represents a Against this backdrop, the Events at Marikana discount of 45.0% to the TERP and a discount resulted in a material reduction in mine production of 69.7% to the closing price of ZAR64.22 per at a time when we were not well positioned to share on Thursday 8 November.
absorb the resulting financial shock, though The Rights Issue is being fully underwritten save production and sales of finished metal continued in respect of new shares which the Companys during the period of the work stoppage by Directors have irrevocably committed to take up, maintaining operations in the Process Division which is around 0.03% of the new shares to be through the running down of stocks in the pipeline.
issued in the Rights Issue.
Further details relating Given this we completed a thorough review of to the Rights Issue are outlined in a separate Lonmins strategy and capital structure and announcement published today.
concluded that reducing Lonmins cost base and capital expenditure in the near term, whilst raising 5.
Future Production, Cost Management and additional equity, in conjunction with entering into Capital Expenditure amended bank facilities, is the best route to Borrowing Future Production achieving a more appropriate and robust capital We continue to have a clear strategic focus on structure with greater financial flexibility.
our mineral resources, mining and processing We believe that Lonmins long-life assets should infrastructure at Marikana, and have invested be substantially funded by long-term equity significantly in these areas in recent years.
This capital, supplemented by free cash flow with investment had two aims.
First, it was necessary appropriate levels of debt funding available to in order to restore the operational health of the provide additional financial flexibility for the Group business which had fallen to unacceptable levels as well as to reduce its overall cost of capital.
We believe this aim has been this context, we view debt financing as providing achieved.
There have been significant the flexibility required to fund Lonmins normal improvements in metrics such as development, working capital requirements and to accommodate grade and recoveries, and following further short-term cash flow volatility inherent in an expenditure in the Process Division the risk of operationally geared business arising from either smelter outages, for example, have fallen or both of movements in the price of PGMs and materially.
The second aim was to deliver the Rand US Dollar exchange rate.
In addition, significant growth in production and sales over we believe that it would be more appropriate for the medium-term in order to meet expected the Groups debt facilities to contain covenants demand and to result in a reduction in unit costs that are linked to capital expenditure and tangible over the corresponding period.
net worth rather than covenants linked to profitability, which do not reflect the significant asset backing that underpins the longer term credit quality of the Group.
com See p 43 for more information See p 43 for more information Lonmin Plc [ 12] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In light of the Events at Marikana, the focus of These measures include: and priority for the Company during the 2013 A review of the Companys operating model, financial year is to return productivity levels safely as well as management structure, is back to, and then above, the run rates achieved expected to yield savings in excess of prior to those events and to improve relationships ZAR200 million per annum, on an annualised with employees.
Part of this will require basis, with the full effect from 2014 onwards: implementing sustainable inclusive collective A procurement initiative known as Total Cost bargaining structures that facilitate wage of Ownership is being implemented which is agreements that are accepted by all the relevant expected to yield savings of ZAR100 million stakeholders to be binding.
We have announced in the second half of the 2013 financial year plans to target production at Marikana of around and in each subsequent financial year 680,000 Platinum ounces of metal in concentrate thereafter: and in the year ending 30 September 2013, although The Company has already completed and Platinum sales for the year are expected to be embedded a productivity enhancement around 660,000 ounces as in-process inventory programme known as Line of Sight and levels are rebuilt within the Process Division.
The Mission Directed Work Teams, which will ramp up back to these normalised levels of form the foundation for a series of further productivity is so far progressing better than productivity and optimisation initiatives in the planned and we fully expect the Marikana 2013 financial year.
Team effectiveness operations to be operating at previously achieved training trials at various shafts in the Karee productivity run rates during the third quarter of mining unit during the 2012 financial year the 2013 financial year.
Platinum Sales have shown the potential of this initiative, We will continue to monitor developments in which will be extended across the business PGM market conditions closely and may during the 2013 financial year.
This will be accelerate or delay planned investment if we supported by improved systems and training, deem doing so to be in the best interests of particularly for supervisory management.
Taken together, these and other initiatives should Beyond the 2013 financial year, we will continue significantly improve the productivity of the to target growth in production and an Company.
improvement in its relative position on the cost curve.
We are targeting production in excess of Capital Expenditure 750,000 Platinum ounces in each of the years In order to achieve the targeted level of ending 30 September 2014 and 2015, and in production Lonmin expects to invest approximately excess of 800,000 Platinum ounces per annum US$175 million for the 2013 financial year and by the 2016 financial year.
approximately US$210 million for the 2014 financial year depending on the Rand US Dollar Cost Management exchange rate.
Of the aggregate capital The Events at Marikana have created two specific expenditure planned for the 2013 and 2014 cost pressures for the Company in the 2013 financial years, approximately US$260 million financial year.
First, the agreement entered into relates to the Mining Division with the balance with the trade unions and worker representatives relating to the Process Division and expenditure increased the wages paid to Lonmins workers as part of the Companys Social Labour Plan Capital Expenditure employed in the Category 4-9 bargaining units by SLP commitments.
In the 2015 and 2016 about 14% from 1 October 2012, which includes financial years, the Directors expect that capital the wage increase of 9% due under the existing expenditure will rise to around US$400 million wage agreement signed in 2011.
As a result, per annum depending on the Rand US Dollar employment costs overall will increase by exchange rate.
The step-up in capital expenditure approximately 11% in the 2013 financial year from 2015 onwards primarily relates to further against the normalised employee cost in FY2012.
development in Hossy, Saffy and K4 in order to Secondly, there is inefficiency inherent in any support the increased production levels and production ramp up, as the business bears the processing projects.
However, the increase in full costs of operations, but does not achieve full capital expenditure in the 2015 and 2016 financial production in the early stages of that ramp up.
years is contingent upon performance in the earlier As a result, we anticipate unit costs of around years and that there is sufficient market demand ZAR9,350 per PGM ounce produced for the and sufficiently attractive pricing for PGMs to 2013 financial year.
The thresholds in the financial covenant linked to capital A number of measures are in place, or will be expenditure within the amended bank facilities implemented during the 2013 financial year, described in the Financial Review have been set both to address the pressures of gross cost at approximately 10% above the budgeted levels increases and also to improve the effectiveness of capital expenditure outlined above.
Chief Executive Officers Review See p 24 for more information See p 43 for more information Lonmin Plc Chief Executive Officers Review [ 13] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Housing Strategy 6.
Building a Sustainable Business The Events at Marikana have shown, however, that much remains to be done and we need to Social Licence to Operate work more closely with our communities to Alongside our legal and regulatory obligations, improve dialogue and rebuild trust as this will be we believe it is essential to hold an informal social key to enhancing better relations with them.
Our licence from the people and communities that management team will be focusing on this in the host its operations.
We have transformation goals which were established in line with the Mining Charter and Equity Ownership are aligned to our SLP commitment to the South We are required to increase HDSA ownership in African Government.
We have worked with our operations by 31 December 2014 to the 26% determination to accomplish the goals we have required under the Mining Charter.
As at 30 set and made progress in many areas, notably September 2012, HDSA investors directly and in our education programmes for the community, indirectly owned 18% of the share capital of our in the number of Historically Disadvantaged subsidiaries that own and operate Marikana and South Africans HDSA employees within our Limpopo and that participate in the Pandora joint management structures, which now stands at venture, as well as 26% of the share capital of its 36% excluding white women and in our subsidiary that owns Akanani.
initiatives to procure from HDSA managed and Our BEE partner, Incwala Resource Pty Limited owned suppliers.
Incwala, is owned as to 50.03% of its equity by Our gender-related policies and procedures, Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited.
Other designed to increase the participation of women in equity investors in Incwala include a trust for the the Company, have had some success, with the benefit of community members, the Industrial number of women at the Company having grown Development Corporation and Lonmin itself.
In by 66% since 2007, but there are still challenges considering how best to meet its HDSA 2014 in order to meet our 2014 commitments.
ownership requirements, we believe that one element we must consider is how to achieve Nevertheless, we recognise that we have further HDSA ownership through a broad-based delivered more slowly in some areas.
Housing is solution as this will ultimately be in the best the hardest task the wider mining sector faces, interests of shareholders.
in terms of what is still to be done.
Lonmin is far from alone in trying to deal with what is essentially Judicial Commission of Inquiry a national problem in South Africa.
The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the Judicial Commission Our housing strategy is comprised of three Events of Marikana commenced on 1 October, elements: hostel conversion, Marikana housing led by retired Judge Farlam.
We welcome this ownership and the long-term housing programme.
Inquiry and will be co-operating fully with its work.
To date we have converted 79 of the 128 old-style hostels into 931 single person occupancy and 7.
Guidance 580 family units and we have detailed plans to In light of the Events at Marikana, our focus during convert the remaining blocks by 31 December 2013 is to return production safely back to the 2014.
We have also seen 242 employees run rate levels achieved prior to those events.
become owners of homes, sold through the We have announced our plans to deliver Platinum Marikana Housing Development Corporation.
production at Marikana of 680,000 ounces of saleable metal in concentrate in the year ending The challenge however is in facilitating the 30 September 2013.
This is below our previous provision of mass affordable employee expectations for two reasons associated with the accommodation particularly for our migrant Events at Marikana: first, due to the estimated workforce.
The Events at Marikana have time required to return to normal productivity levels: highlighted the critical shortage of affordable and, secondly, due to the impact of lower capital housing as a major challenge for Lonmin and the spend and the suspension of production at K4 South African nation more broadly, reflecting the shaft which, as previously announced, was placed need for a solution that involves all stakeholders on care and maintenance in September 2012. including government, mining companies and employees.
Management is engaging with The metal in concentrate output forecast for 2013 employees and all stakeholders as necessary to is expected to result in Platinum sales of around understand better their requirements as part of 660,000 ounces.
The shortfall of around 20,000 developing a framework for a sustainable and ounces from the metal in concentrate output fundable solution.
We recognise there will be a represents the necessary build-up of pipeline cost to this and we will develop appropriate ounces in the smelters and the refineries during budgets in due course.
The partnership Lonmin 2013 to replace stocks depleted during the fourth has with the Greater Lonmin Community where quarter of the current financial year.
its operations are based is important to us.
For over 18 years, we have paid royalties into a trust on behalf of the Bapo Ba-Mogale community.
The amount of funds contributed to date is approximately ZAR371 million.
com See p 28 for more information See p 32 for more information Chief Executive Officers Review Lonmin Plc [ 14] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Taking into account the reduced production profile for 2013 and the increase in wages, we anticipate that the unit cost per PGM ounce will increase by 10% to R9,350.
Capital expenditure for 2013 is forecast to be US$175 million as mentioned above.
Executive Ian Farmer, CEO, is undergoing a course of treatment for a serious illness diagnosed in August.
In all of this, he remains firmly in our thoughts.
Our executive team has excelled, despite trying times.
The team continues to demonstrate its cohesiveness, eminent expertise, and notwithstanding the recent absence of Ian, solid support for me in my role as Acting CEO.
My thanks go to the Chairman and Mahomed Seedat who have joined the Executive Committee and to Alan Ferguson who has been working with me on a part-time basis.
Their support has been invaluable during this challenging time.
Thank You to All The dedication, support and professionalism of our employees remain key to our success.
The tragic events of the last two months of the financial year have affected all of us and although saddened, I am satisfied that the Company navigated these events appropriately.
I am confident that we have the right strategy and plan to realise long-term value from the Companys high quality resource base and existing infrastructure for the benefit of all our stakeholders and I look forward to delivering against these plans in 2013.
Ian Farmer joins me in conveying our best wishes to everyone in the Company.
Simon Scott Acting Chief Executive Officer 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information 01 Lonmin Explained 16 Our Business Model 18 Strategic Overview 22 Market Review 24 2012 Key Performance Indicators 26 Transformation and Sustainability Overview 30 Year at a glance
