OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT As a result of markedly weaker Cynthia Carroll commodity prices, ongoing cost pressures and an operating loss in our Platinum business, Anglo American reported an underlying operating pro t of $6.2 billion, a 44% decrease.
Underlying EBITDA decreased by 35% to $8.7 billion and underlying earnings decreased by 54% to UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT $2.8 billion.
2011: $11.1 bn Our safety performance has always been my first priority and our efforts continue to build on the progress we $6.2 b n have made since 2006, both in terms For more information of lives lost and lost time injuries turn to page 42 sustained.
I am deeply saddened that 13 of our colleagues lost their lives in 2012 a constant reminder that we FINAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE must persevere to achieve zero harm.
2011: 46 cents Anglo American continued its drive for strong operational performance 53 c e n t s throughout 2012 in an environment of tough macroeconomic headwinds and a number of industry-wide and company-speci c challenges.
01 Record volumes of metallurgical coal, achieving benchmark equipment performance levels, and of iron ore Kumba Iron Ore, lifting our ownership and increased volumes of export The new mining by 4.5% to 69.7%, re ecting our view thermal coal and copper helped operations and on the quality of the business and its offset the impact of illegal industrial expansions highly attractive performance and action, declining grades and higher delivered and growth pro le.
commissioned Our divestment programme has during 2011 The new mining operations generated proceeds as announced contributed and expansions delivered and of $4 billion on a debt and cash free to production commissioned during 2011 basis, which excludes $7.4 billion cash growth and contributed to production growth and generated from the sale of 49.9% of generated generated $1.2 billion of underlying AA Sur.
In line with our divestment $1.2 billion operating pro t. The Los Bronces programme of non-core businesses as of underlying expansion contributed 196,100 tonnes set out in October 2009, I am delighted operating pro t. of copper in 2012 and has achieved that Tarmacs UK joint venture with full ramp up since August 2012, while Lafarge was completed in January Kumbas Kolomela mine exceeded 2013, creating a leading UK expectations by producing 8.5 million construction materials company tonnes for the year both considerable with signi cant synergies expected.
achievements while we have been We are focused on delivering slowly ramping up Barro Alto.
shareholder value and returns through Beyond organic growth, we have the cycle by maintaining a prudent completed our acquisition of the and disciplined approach to managing Oppenheimer familys 40% interest our businesses and capital allocation.
in fide Beers, taking our holding to Despite the macroeconomic 85%.
In Chile, our joint ownership of headwinds and likely sustained higher Anglo American Sur AA Sur with capital and operating cost environment Codelco, Mitsubishi and Mitsui, while for the industry, we are committed to we retain control of the business, rmly returning cash to shareholders and aligns our interests in one of the most have recommended an increase to our exciting producing and prospective final dividend of 15% to 53 cents per copper orebodies in the world the share, bringing total dividends for the Los Bronces district.
During the year, year to 85 cents per share, a 15% we also increased our shareholding in 10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Overview 01 At Thermal coals 02 Cleaning copper 03 As part of the Boards 04 Specialist asset strategy Highveld hospital in anodes in the tank house visit to Minas-Rio in engineer Sylvester Mpumalanga province in at Los Bronces in Chile.
October, the directors Hennessy monitoring South Africa, Sister Evah visited the CRCA data at Metallurgical Molefe takes a sputum Cultural and Coals of ces in sample to test for Environment Centre, Brisbane, Australia.
TB from Kleinkopje which houses specialist colliery plant operator information in the elds Sipho Mhlabane.
of archaeology, biodiversity and water.
Together with the safety and well-being of employees, our primary sustainability issues are adapting to climate change, securing access to water and energy, and managing relationships with stakeholders, particularly communities.
During 2012, we made good progress implementing our long term water and energy strategies.
To date, more than 70% of our operational water requirements are met by recycling re-using water.
03 In support of our commitments to protect and enhance the health of our people, contractors and communities, we are extending our industry-leading health and wellness programmes, which include HIV AIDS and TB treatment and care, to long term contract employees in South Africa.
Looking ahead, recent months have brought a degree of renewed optimism to the economic prospects.
While European and Japanese economic activity remains weak, recent policy changes ought to stimulate growth in 02 04 2013.
Alongside a continuing recovery in the US, we expect robust growth in the major emerging economies increase.
This re ects our con dence expenditure, we continue to be especially China and India as they In Platinum, in the underlying business and con dent of the medium and long bene t from continuing urbanisation.
we completed completes the reinstatement journey term attractiveness and strategic Rising living standards and an our review to rebase our dividends to be positioning of Minas-Rio and we expanding middle class should support and have competitive with our diversi ed peers.
remain committed to the project.
demand for our products across our put forward The first phase of the project will begin We recorded impairments diversi ed mix.
proposals its ramp up at the end of 2014, with totalling $4.6billion post-tax in to create a operating costs expected to be highly I step down from my role as chief relation to Minas-Rio and a number sustainable, competitive in the first quartile of the executive after six years knowing that of platinum projects that are competitive FOB cash cost curve, generating Anglo American is a safer place to uneconomical, which is disappointing.
and pro table signi cant free cash ow for many work, with a clear strategy and a much In Platinum, we completed our review business.
in January 2013 and have put forward There is no doubt in my mind that proposals to create a sustainable, We continue to sequence investment Anglo Americans people and asset competitive and pro table business.
by prioritising capital to commodities base are unmatched in the industry We, of course, regret the potential with the most attractive market and I wish my successor, Mark Cutifani, impact on jobs and communities and dynamics and projects with the lowest every success in leading this great have designed an extensive social plan execution risks.
I sincerely thank the to more than offset any such impact.
In metallurgical coal project in Australia Board of directors, my executive Brazil, Minas-Rio is a world class iron is under way and on schedule while, management team and all our ore project of rare magnitude and in Peru, successful completion of our employees for their support and quality, representing one of the worlds community dialogue process at the relentless effort since 2007. largest undeveloped resources.
The Quellaveco copper project will allow us published resource has increased to target submission to the Board for more than fourfold since acquisition, approval in 2013. of which we have subsequently Managing the social, economic converted 1.45billion tonnes to Ore and environmental impacts of our Cynthia Carroll Reserves: we anticipate increases in operations is essential to our success.
Chief Executive the resource con dence and further Our approach to sustainability is a conversion of resources to reserves key differentiator for Anglo American, through our ongoing in ll drilling is fundamental to the way we do programme.
Despite the dif culties business and is embedded in we have faced that have caused a everything we do.
signi cant increase in capital Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 11
