28 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC recognises its responsibility to encouraging sport activity: ethics training and shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers support for a diverse and vibrant workforce, and the wider community.
We comply with all 20% of whom are from outside Switzerland.
relevant national laws and regulations and aim Environment for continual improvement of our financial, Ten sites audited by external consultants for social and environmental performance.
environment in 2007 Meggitt is committed to: 66% of sites certi ed for ISO14001 upholding sound corporate governance as at 31 December 2007 Empl oyees by length principles Signatory to the Sustainable Aviation Strategy of service years providing a supportive, rewarding and safe of the Society of British Aerospace Companies work environment During 2007, Meggitt made substantial progress conducting business relationships in an in its environmental management strategy.
ethical manner supporting the communities in which The groups UK Environment, Health & Safety Less than 5 3,903 we operate Council held two meetings and proved a useful 5-10 1,543 minimising the environmental impact forum for coordinating efforts to prepare for 10-15 614 of products and processes forthcoming legislation and sharing best practice 15-20 560 20-25 539 acting as a responsible supplier throughout the group.
Over 25 1,139 and encouraging our contractors and suppliers Many of our business units have continued to adopt and implement these principles.
to implement initiatives to reduce their Governance and compliance environmental impact.
Endevco in the US In January 2007, the main board approved the replaced air conditioning units, signi cantly Employees by region adoption of a corporate responsibility CR policy.
reducing energy usage, the risk of refrigerant This sets out the values underpinning the way gas leakage and running costs by around we manage social, ethical and environmental USD99,000 per year.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking issues and is available on our website.
Systems in the US invested USD350,000 in air pollution controls for new furnaces, reducing Meggitt devotes signi cant resources to ensuring UK 2,513 potential organic compound emissions by that its operating units comply with its CR policy North America 4,380 99%.
Meggitt Polymer Solutions in the UK Europe 1,196 as exempli ed by the rolling programme of implemented a green travel scheme involving Rest of world 209 independent environmental and health and car sharing and cycling.
safety compliance audits by external consultants.
This approach enables us to identify and We achieved several notable improvements in manage potential compliance issues across waste and wastewater management practices in Empl oyees by segment all units.
Meggitt Thermal Systems, which relocated to Dunstable in 2006, increased its rate of The board delegates responsibility for overseeing recycling of solid waste from 4% in 2006 to 61% CR to the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and Managing directors, presidents and general Engineered Fabrics Corporation in the US used managers are responsible for implementing 300 tons of hazardous waste as an energy source Aerospace equipment 58% CR activities locally.
Defence systems 11% Sensing systems 30% CR in action Endevco in the US implemented a treatment Group 1% Vibro-Meter in Switzerland exempli ed the system reducing a hazardous wastewater stream approach of many Meggitt businesses to by 97%, generating clean wastewater for discharge responsible corporate citizenship when it under permit, signi cantly reducing the frequency won the cantonal prize for Encouragement of off-site transportation and saving USD100,000 lEntreprise Citoyenne.
This recognised the per year on haulage and disposal costs.
signi cant economic contribution to the local Meggitt Thermal Systems in Coventry achieved community made by Meggitts conditionISO14001 status during 2007.
The process of monitoring specialist, underpinned by a firstobtaining certi cation has delivered real bene ts class apprenticeship scheme: early adoption of to the business, enhancing its environmental environmental management standard ISO14001: management systems and developing closer equal pay: exible working hours and family relationships with the local community, local involvement: help with smoking cessation and Corporate responsibility 29 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 authority and other enforcement agencies.
Figure 1: Environmental data 2007 2007 2006 The few remaining sites without ISO14001 excluding K & F have plans to achieve certi cation.
Carbon dioxide emitted In January 2008, we appointed a Group Health, Safety & Environmental Manager.
This tonnes 000 revenue 0.12 0.08 0.08 appointment supports and progresses our tonnes 107,389 57,110 56,995 management of these areas and will enable Volatile organic us to focus on improving environmental compounds emitted performance aided by the data we have collected around the group since 2006.
Figure 1 shows a tonnes 000 revenue 0.00029 0.00009 0.00009 selection from our 2007 data see our website tonnes 255.38 65.05 59.95 for all CR data collected.
Water consumption The substantial K & F operating units are 3 m 000 revenue 0.94 0.71 0.59 resource-intensive and their manufacturing 3 m 826,820 527,679 395,638 processes have had a signi cant impact on our Non-hazardous headline data and metrics based on revenue.
waste recycled We are committed to working with all our businesses to develop a long-term strategy % 35.06 35.54 32.11 to minimise our environmental impacts.
Ken Thrasher Group Vice President Manufacturing & Material Control, Meggitt Aerospace Equipment Improving the operational performance of Meggitts aerospace equipment businesses worldwide couldnt be more stimulating.
When the group buys companies, it buys  to do things better.
It sees the gold and my team are the miners tasked to extract it.
Management structures, product lines, cultures, people and degrees of operational effectiveness differ but one things commonthe way our continuous ow methodology switches lights on and shows people how to transform their companies into best-in-class executing organisations.
It is very ful lling to see professional pride and shareholder value rise at the same timeand I feel especially satis ed when sales people never have to apologise and can make promises about price, speed and quality with absolute con dence.
30 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility continued Health and safety Training and development Eight sites audited by external consultants for The Group Organisational Development Director health and safety and Group Human Resources Manager continue to drive initiatives to improve training and In January 2008, the main board approved a group development across the group.
This includes policy setting out our commitments to health and a leadership development programme and safety, which include operation of the formal professional development reviews.
management systems needed to ensure we comply with legislation, regulation, best practice In 2007, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems in the and employee engagement at all levels see the UK demonstrated its outstanding commitment policy in full on our website.
to employee training and development, winning an award from Coventry City Council for its Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems in the UK apprenticeship programme.
Later in the year, implemented an enhanced programme of apprentice Victor Asiasi won Apprentice of the training to reinforce awareness and personal Year from Coventry City Council and from the responsibility for health and safety.
For Meggitt Midlands Engineering Employers Federation.
as a whole, the number of reportable injuries per 100,000 employees in 2007 was 1,579 Average training hours across the group per 2006: 2,669. employee was 27.91 2006: 26.27.
Ethics Customers and suppliers During 2007 we adopted the European Aerospace Supplying safe and mission-critical products & Defence Common Industry Standards for Antirequires the highest standards of performance, Corruption and incorporated them into our Ethics delivery and quality if we are to sustain and win and Business Conduct Policy.
We promote a robust quality released across the group in 2007 focused on ethos accordingly.
anti-corruption, diversity and con icts of interest.
Our relationships with aerospace and defence We provided bespoke training and conducted a customers are well established and we continue successful pilot programme on ethics and US to receive commendations and performance government contracts.
In 2007, we adopted a global data protection In 2007, Meggitt Avionics received the 2007 policy covering the processing of personal Boeing Performance Excellence Award for information to achieve a minimum standard of superior supplier performance.
Meggitt Defence compliance across the group see the full policy Systems in Canada was ranked seventh in a list on our website.
of top defence companies by the authoritative Meggitt continues to be the principal sponsor defence journal, Canadian Defence Review.
of the innovative National Intercollegiate Endevco was awarded the Best of Sensors Expo Business Ethics Competition designed to 2007 Bronze Award for new product development promote increased awareness of business and was accredited as a total quality supplier by ethics and hosted by Loyola Marymount United Launch Alliance Harlingen Operations for University in Los Angeles.
its outstanding record for product quality and on-time deliveries.
Wilcoxon Researchs shear mode vector sensor development featured in the US Navys Success Stories, a roll call of technologies providing superior solutions.
Corporate responsibility 31 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Business continuity Employees gave their time, like the Meggitt USA 88% of group sites have implemented and staff who joined other volunteers with MedWish embedded business continuity plans International in the remote villages of Honduras, providing medical assistance to impoverished 12% of group sites are new to the programme patients.
In 2007, group acquisitions led to four new The Meggitt group supports charities relevant sites starting to work on business continuity to our people and our businesses.
The remainder of Meggitts sites have we sponsored a student under the Arkwright implemented plans and are progressing through Scholarship Trust, which encourages high calibre the more advanced stages of the programme.
students into engineering careers by awarding Learning from training and real incidents such scholarships over the A level Scottish Higher as the Bunce eld explosion, is captured academic years.
We donated 10,000 to Help for and shared.
Heroes, a campaign for the rehabilitation of Local communities and charitable donations wounded soldiers.
Our local community and charitable strategy Committing the resources entrusts each business to undertake appropriate The year 2008 has already seen excellent local initiatives.
There are numerous examples progress with the appointment of a Group Health, of positive contributions.
In 2007, Endevco Safety & Environmental Manager and the employees contributions to the American adoption of a Group Health & Safety Policy.
We Red Cross Fire Relief Fund for victims of the will continue to commit the resources needed to Southern California res were matched by ensure that we run our businesses responsibly the business unit.
and with respect for all those involved with them.
Khoon Ooi Vice President, Engineering and Business Development, Meggitt Airdynamics At Meggitt Fluid Controls, we understand uid and thermal sciences, electromechanical design for high-speed machines, high-power density motors, control electronics and system integration.
These technologies are the building blocks from which we develop innovative products for a variety of uses, not least the emerging electric aircraft and any platform where high performance, lightweight equipment is needed.
Today we are working on traction drive systems.
With signi cant experience in lightweight, extreme environment equipment for aircraft and cooling components for battle tanks, we expect to reduce the weight of components and sub-systems for next-generation combat vehicles.
This delivers tactical advantagesmaller military transports to deploy them: days, not weeks and months, before they reach their destination: and operational agility on the ground.
