Corporate and social responsibility The board is committed to running the Company in accordance with best Ethical practice in corporate governance.
This commitment includes recognition The Company manages its resources prudently to ensure appropriate by the Company of the importance of taking into account its corporate investment is made in its research and development programmes and its social responsibilities CSR in operating the business.
In this context, commercialisation activities.
Up-to-date security systems are utilised to Micro Focus seeks to integrate CSR considerations relating particularly to protect the Companys IT systems.
The Companys intellectual property is social, ethical and health, safety and environment HS&E issues in its protected through an appropriate trademark registration and patenting day-to-day operations.
The board acknowledges its duty to ensure the programme.
Close attention is paid to maintaining relationships with key Company conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for stakeholders including business partners, suppliers and shareholders.
all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliers and the local communities.
The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy with which all Company staff are required to comply.
In exercising its corporate social responsibility, Micro Focus seeks to ensure that: Health and safety The Company has well-developed health and safety policies and The board takes account of the significance of social, ethical and procedures, safeguarding staff, contractors and visitors and it complies HS&E issues: with current legislation and best practice.
Business practices are managed ethically: Environment Micro Focus complies with all local environmental legislation.
The business is focused on delivering value to stakeholders: The directors acknowledge that the Companys business as a provider of Existing legislation, regulations and guidelines are adhered to as enterprise application management solutions has a minimal direct impact a minimum: on the environment.
The Company has introduced a number of automated processes to reduce the quantity of paper and packaging that is used in the Employees are recognised as key to the business with individual skills business.
Employees are encouraged to eliminate unnecessary travel and and experience being valued and developed: and use video conferencing facilities and other methods of communication in its place.
Computer and other office equipment that has reached the end of Health, safety and environmental issues are treated as critical areas its working life are resold, recycled or donated to local organisations as of concern for the business.
Having many offices worldwide, the Company is conscious of its total energy consumption and the amount of waste materials generated Social and is actively working to reduce both energy usage and the quantity of The health, welfare and development of the Companys employees waste materials produced that cannot be recycled.
With the intent of attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Micro Focus maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its employees, for example an equal opportunities policy approved by Acas.
Employee development is encouraged through appropriate training.
Regular and open communication between management and employees is viewed as essential for motivating a highly educated workforce.
Briefings are held regularly to provide updates on Company business and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
Review meetings are also held regularly within each department.
The Company maintains both an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all employees.
During the year, a Sharesave scheme and a US ESPP scheme were introduced and the directors actively encourage employee equity participation, subject to compliance with the Groups share dealing policy.
Details of the current employee share option schemes and options granted during the year are given in note 24.
