Corporate Social Responsibility INTRODUCTION A structured programme of staff training and workshop seminars The Board take regular account of the significance of social, is also carried out in all locations.
Employees at every level are environmental and ethical matters to the business of the encouraged to develop their skills and qualifications.
A variety Company and identifies value arising from those matters as well of internally managed development programmes are available, as opportunities to enhance value that may arise from them.
The covering human resources issues and industry specific training Group Risk Management Committee has identified and assessed the and, in certain regions, the Group offers nationally recognised Companys significant short and long term risks.
The Board believes qualifications and a tuition support programme for external courses.
it has received adequate information to ensure that the Company The portfolio of available courses will be extended during 2008. has effective systems in place for managing the Groups key risks.
The principles of the national standard of best practice in employee The Groups significant Risk Factors are included on pages 34 to 35. development and involvement are being followed in the countries in which we operate.
Best practice in terms of labour standards is also EMPLOYEES upheld.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of its people.
During the year, grants of options were made under the Long Term The Group strives to build on the qualities inherent in its global Incentive Plan in which 32 employees participate, and under the environment by developing and valuing people with different views, Sharesave Schemes in which 75 employees, other than Directors, styles and approaches.
participate by entering into a three or five year savings contract.
The Companys policy is to provide equality of opportunity for all CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS employees without discrimination and continues to encourage the The Groups strategic service vision was launched on a global employment, training and advancement of disabled persons in basis in 2006, by way of an initiative called Outstanding Service accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can Experience OSE.
Our customers are now benefiting from this be employed in a safe working environment.
Suitable employment initiative and we are continuing to train new employees to ensure would, if possible, be found for any employee who becomes service levels are of a consistently high standard.
disabled during the course of employment.
It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the terms of The Group understands that communication of its achievements payment with suppliers at the commencement of the trading or and aspirations are key and is committed to keeping its employees contractual relationship and to operate within such terms subject fully informed regarding its performance and prospects.
Employees to satisfactory completion of the suppliers obligations.
It does not are encouraged to present their suggestions and views at staff follow any particular guidelines established by third parties.
The consultation groups at each location and the Group believes that effect of the Groups payment policy is that its trade creditors at the the dissemination of appropriate information is key to achieving financial year-end represent 22 days purchases 2006: 22 days.
During 2007, two new relevant on-line the year end, the Company had no trade creditors 2006: nil.
resources, the marketing intranet and docustore were developed The Board has adopted a Business Integrity Policy which provides to bring marketing and corporate information to the desks of standards on relationships with suppliers and customers.
requires Directors and employees to act honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 53 Corporate Social Responsibility HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Groups environmental objectives are being extended to include Safety and environmental management are key management measurement and management of carbon emissions.
The Groups management is responsible for ensuring our carbon emissions, we aim to achieve carbon reduction targets that reasonable and practical steps are taken to maintain a safe and in all our regional operations.
The Company will continue to healthy environment for guests, employees, visitors and contractors.
investigate ways to improve the efficiency of waste disposal and Performance in this area is measured and judged in the same way as recycling whilst minimising any adverse effect on the environment.
Staff are trained to meet the needs The Company only uses refrigeration equipment which complies of disabled customers.
Obsolete equipment is removed by nominated waste disposal companies for safe disposal.
Regional Health and safety is managed on a practical level by the established environmental initiatives vary but include recycling of paper, regional health and safety management groups.
The Audit cardboard, glass, bottles, coat hangers and cleaning of rooms with Committee receives a report from all regions at each meeting.
Specialist health and safety and food safety consultants have been appointed to provide advice and guidance in all aspects of To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of health compliance with relevant legislation and to monitor, audit and and safety and the environment, Wong Hong Ren, in his capacity review systems to ensure compliance with such legislation.
Training as Interim Group Chief Executive Officer, has been identified as needs are being met at all levels.
the Board member responsible for both areas.
The Company has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK Index of socially responsible The Board has a formal environmental policy in place and a companies since the indexs establishment in July 2001. structured Environmental Management System.
The Group is committed to meeting regulatory requirements in the different COMMUNITIES countries in which the Group operates, minimising the use of The Group has extensive links with the community through energy, water and materials, managing effectively the waste and partnerships established by employees and management at hotels emissions produced and managing any specific environmental and at a corporate level.
Across the Group, staff and management risks associated with any of its operations.
Based on environmental are involved with a range of charitable organisations.
The Group impact assessments, specific targets are set for environmental gave 44,629 2006: 44,183 to charities during the period.
The improvement and progress is monitored against these targets.
Groups policy is to consider charities that improve the economic or Environmental management is integrated into existing health and social well being of ordinary people or those who are deprived in safety structures established by the Board.
some way within the Groups area of operation including local and national charities.
The Group made no political contributions during The Group operates strict controls to reduce consumption of energy, 2007. for example by installing low energy light bulbs and water saving shower-heads in all its hotels.
Hotels have energy committees that gather information on a monthly basis and report on energy use, water use and waste management.
We are committed to assessing, monitoring and minimising the impact of our activities upon the environment.
54 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
