People and corporate responsibility Our commitments One Misys Strong emphasis on results and values Now addressing key Employee Survey findings Continued support for wider community Our values We have created one Misys We are responding to the views We take an outside-in The business has made substantial of employees view that prioritises the changes this year, with the creation of a We carried out the first ever global needs of customers new management team, a new structure Employee Engagement Survey this and a new strategic direction.
The full year every Misys employee around We work with honesty and separation of Treasury & Capital Markets the world was asked the same set of integrity, using facts and and Core Banking was completed and questions about their career experience plain talking the Global Services and Open Source and priorities.
In total 77% of employees We pursue excellence, businesses launched, so we now have chose to take part in the survey, which quality and competence five business units.
Sesame has been is a great response rate.
We put innovation at the sold, so all of our businesses are now heart of everything we do pursuing the Companys core strategic The survey showed that employee direction, with a very strong emphasis engagement levels are reasonably We always work as a team on delivering value to all customers.
high for an organisation undergoing We are passionate about great change, but there are four key winning and getting results We are driven by results and values areas we must address and strengthen.
We lead by example The organisation is focused on achieving Employees are asking for more performance within a new set of clearly communication about future direction, defined values.
For us, performance is more open dialogue, better visibility of all about achieving excellent results senior management and more focus Employee Survey: Four key as employees and achieving excellent on listening to customers.
areas we are addressing now results for our customers and Future strategy More clear shareholders.
This approach was put The survey took place before the launch information about the future into action by our new senior team, of our new strategy on 8 March 2007 Trust in leadership More who have done a great job of leading so we are pleased that the areas visibility of senior managers by example this year.
highlighted by employees match so Communication More closely with the principles behind the open dialogue The financial incentives for the senior new direction.
The senior team has team are directly aligned to the interests taken the findings of the survey very Customer service More of shareholders.
People here are seriously and action plans are being focus on listening to rewarded for meeting and exceeding developed with teams of employees to customers and delivering stretching targets.
All senior leaders address the issues and deliver positive value are accountable for their business or improvements.
area of responsibility, and this culture of accountability and delivering results We are turning strategy into action is being cascaded throughout the We believe strategy is only valuable organisation.
when it is executed successfully.
The focus of the next 12 months will be Our people strategy ensures we attract, on ensuring that the new direction at develop and retain excellent people at all Misys is embedded throughout the levels throughout Misys, so that we have organisation at all levels, in all offices, the capacity to meet our customers in every country.
With around 5,500 needs anywhere in the world.
We are employees within Misys change takes enhancing our internal capabilities by time, but we have set a fast pace in the partnering with other organisations first months of the turnaround and will wherever necessary, including technical be increasing our momentum specialists and organisations in lowerthroughout the year.
24 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Throughout the Company Misys people are working together to deliver greater value for customers.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 25 People and corporate responsibility People and corporate responsibility We have a relatively small and light environmental footprint but we try to improve our performance wherever we can.
We continued our support for Corporate responsibility Over 1.1m IT education Total Misys Foundation Established in 1997, the Misys We are enhancing our environmental funding donated since Foundation is a charitable trust set up to performance 1998 support IT education, with Misys as sole As a software and solutions company funder.
The Foundation provides funding we have a relatively small and light support for three groups: environmental footprint but, regardless, 300 employees we try to improve our performance Students studying IT-related subjects participated in the annual wherever we can.
We are reviewing the at university Salvation Armys Holiday travel undertaken by employees to ensure Hopes Programme Schools who are finding it difficult to all the trips we make are necessary, raise the money required for their IT and we are investing in more video education programme conferencing facilities to reduce the need for travel.
Charities working to further IT education in the wider community In terms of legislation and regulation, Misys aims to meet all current In 2006 07 the Foundation gave 113,000 Code of Ethics requirements wherever we operate.
in scholarships to students, 20,000 to We believe Misys and our We have put in place a number of new schools and 19,000 to communityemployees, advisers and measures to ensure we comply with the related projects.
In total 38 scholarships agents should meet a high EC Directive on Waste Electrical and were awarded to students studying at 12 ethical standard wherever Electronic Equipment WEEE and we British universities, and 13 scholarships we operate.
Ethical conduct prepared successfully to comply with the were awarded to students studying in promotes trust and ending of smoking at work in England Bangalore, India: Cape Town, South encourages collaboration.
The We have a clear Code of Foundation has also continued to fund Ethics, a Whistle-blowing We have maintained our good record in a Voluntary Service Overseas VSO Policy and reporting health and safety volunteer who is providing IT support mechanisms for employees.
We built on the audit of environmental, to students in Ethiopia.
For more details please see health and safety performance within misys.
com the Company completed last year by The Foundation encourages employees to implementing a consistent set of health nominate schools in need of support, and and safety policies for all jurisdictions.
FTSE4Good this year all the schools supported were The policies cover people, processes Misys is a constituent recommended this way.
This adds an and training and represent the first member of the FTSE4Good important employee engagement aspect globally consistent approach in this area Index.
Companies in the to the work of the Foundation.
FTSE4Good Index Series are doing more to manage In the year ahead the Foundation will be Established in 2005, the Misys their social, ethical and carrying out a pilot scheme with Walsall Environmental, Health & Safety Working environmental impacts, and Academy aimed at encouraging gifted Group supports the Board in meeting its are better positioned to pupils to stay on at school after 16 to legal obligations in these areas.
The capitalise on the benefits of study an IT-related subject.
Groups work also helps to identify and responsible business mitigate related risk and highlights practice.
performance improvement opportunities that might benefit the business and the environment.
The Group met three times this year.
26 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing 1 Misys employees donating toys to the Salvation Armys Holiday Hopes Programme 2 Misys employees, Mike Pritts and Krishna Kushwaha visiting Nele Narendra school in Bangalore 3 Misys employees interacting with the school children, during their visit to Nele Narendra 1 3 2 We continued to support the community In Raleigh, employees participated in the annual Salvation Armys Holiday Hopes Programme, which collects and distributes holiday gifts and clothing for needy children in the community.
Employees also took part in walking and cycling events, including the 2006 Heart Walk in Raleigh for the fundraising campaign to fight cardiovascular diseases, and the Komen Race for the Cure a global charity event supporting breast cancer research, education and treatment.
Employees in research and development in Raleigh also collected food for the needy through the Food Bank of North Carolina.
Misys sponsored a number of Wake Education Partnership initiatives to improve education in the Raleigh area, with employees volunteering as mentors and programme leaders within the public school system.
Misys also sponsored the North Carolina Symphony and NC Museum of Art programmes.
Employment policies Employee share ownership In Tucson employees represented Misys We treat all employees and job We are committed to encouraging through walks and runs to support applicants fairly and on merit employee share ownership.
Misys cyclists also regardless of gender, sexual years we have operated tax efficient participated in the El Tour fide Tucson Bike orientation, age, race, nationality, savings-related share option plans Ride, the largest cycling event in Arizona.
physical ability, political beliefs sharesave plans for all eligible UK The funds raised benefited health and or religion.
We do not tolerate employees and for overseas employees fitness initiatives.
During the holiday harassment or discrimination of in jurisdictions where it is practicable season, employees donated toys for the any kind.
People with disabilities to do so.
Cash-based phantom share Toys for Tots Campaign and contributed are given the same consideration as option plans, which operate in a similar to a community food drive.
others when applying for jobs.
If an manner to sharesave plans, are offered employee becomes disabled we will where local regulations prohibit shareIn India the Misys office supports a different charity each month and this make every effort to retain them in based plans.
year employee efforts ranged from their current role or provide retraining helping refugee and orphaned children or redeployment within the Group.
to providing contributions for people in need.
During the Christmas season the employee-backed Misys Caring Club in Bangalore collected toys, clothes, books and pens to give as gifts for children in the Rakum School for the Blind.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 27 People and corporate responsibility
