Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers offers an Alcohol and Social Responsibility policy Mitchells & Butlers operates in a highly independently administered confidential Mitchells & Butlers was one of the first regulated industry and recognises that it hotline, also known as a whistleblowing companies to establish a comprehensive has an inherent duty under its licences to: hotline, for any employee wishing to report policy for the responsible retailing of ensure the responsible operation of its any concern that they may have that alcohol, in 2000.
Our Alcohol & Social premises for guests, employees and the they feel unable to raise with their line Responsibility ASR policy includes clear wider community: and manager.
All whistleblowing allegations guidelines on the responsible operation promote the objectives of the Licensing are reported to and considered by the of our pubs: the sale and promotion Act 2003, namely: Audit Committee.
of alcohol: our under-18s policy: and the prevention of crime and disorder our staff training and development public safety The Board takes regular account of programmes.
the prevention of public nuisance social, environmental and ethical matters the protection of children from harm.
concerning the Company through the The introduction of our leading Chief Executives regular reports to the policy shaped the development and This is at the heart of the business and is Board, presentations to the Board at its implementation of industry-wide codes why the Company strives to ensure that strategy meetings and through adoption of conduct.
We update the policy regularly, corporate social responsibility underpins of its Code of Ethics.
The Company re-launching it in October 2004 and in its business operation at every level.
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that May 2006.
In August this year we updated Directors are made aware of and receive it again to reflect: Please note that the following sections training in respect of such matters.
the acceptance of an international provide a summary only of our policies Formal reporting to the Board of social, passport as a recognised form of in respect of our corporate social environmental and ethical matters takes identification we continue also to responsibility CSR activity.
A more place every six months.
accept UK Passports, UK photograph detailed account of Mitchells & Butlers driving licences, and proof of age cards CSR practices and corporate compliance, Identification and assessment of risks bearing the PASS hologram as including case studies, can be found to the Companys short and long-term recognised forms of identification: in our separately published Corporate value arising from social, ethical and the tightening of guidelines around Social Responsibility Review 2007 environmental matters are achieved pricing, discounting and promotions on www.
com csrreview through the Companys Major Risk and across our businesses: and Assurance Review, regularly updated and the inclusion of new information Corporate governance presented to the Board annually.
The listing the units of alcohol contained The Board is responsible for the Companys Board considers as an intrinsic part of this in commonly served drinks.
internal control and risk management review whether the steps taken to address system.
The Corporate Governance report these risks are appropriate.
These are We are determined to ensure that on page 30 gives details of how this detailed further below.
Opportunities Mitchells & Butlers pubs are operated responsibility is discharged.
to enhance the Companys value are in a way that fully justifies the grant considered as part of that review and of a licence for the responsible retailing Our Executive Committee, comprising the at strategy discussions.
In that regard we were HR Director and General Counsel as well pleased to be recognised by the Morning as the Chief Executive and the Finance A Mitchells & Butlers Risk Management Advertiser for the second time as this Director, has adopted a Code of Ethics and Disclosure Forum exists to monitor years most responsible drinks retailer to promote honest and ethical conduct the Companys activities and to ensure in the managed pubs category.
The code that a consistent and proactive approach includes: to managing risk occurs throughout the Challenge 21 the ethical handling of actual or Company, including those of a social, Mitchells & Butlers led the industry in apparent conflicts of interest between ethical or environmental nature.
The 2004 when we launched our Challenge 21 personal and professional relationships: Forum aims to meet on a quarterly basis.
It is not an over 21s only a requirement that any hospitality from entrance policy but rather a requirement suppliers must be approved, with a The Board also receives regular updates to ask for identification if a customer presumption against its acceptance: on significant legislative change or appears to be under 21, so as to prove requiring full, fair, accurate, timely and development in corporate governance that he or she is at least 18 years of age.
understandable disclosure in periodic best practice.
The Companys social, The principle of Challenge 21 to support reports required to be filed by Mitchells environmental and ethical disclosures and educate our staff and customers on & Butlers plc: and are reviewed for accuracy through the issues relating to under-age sales is promoting compliance with all a combination of detailed verification now firmly embedded in our Company applicable rules and regulations that by members of management responsible culture.
To monitor the scale of attempted apply to the Company and its officers.
for the individual areas of corporate under-age purchasing in our pubs, we now social responsibility and high level reviews record all instances of refusal to serve and Our Business Conduct guidelines describe by the members of the Board and are currently registering around 50,000 the standards of behaviour expected from Executive Committee.
those working for the Company.
Our corporate reputation depends on all staff acting in good conscience and behaving with integrity in our dealings with employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and all other stakeholders.
24 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review Through our various training Conflict management Mitchells & Butlers has so far applied programmes, all our retail staff, including Mitchells & Butlers recognises that failure for an average of just over one additional door staff, are made aware of their to identify and resolve potential sources hour per day per pub.
In making responsibilities for serving alcohol and the of conflict in our pubs or on the door can applications we sought to balance the personal penalties for failure to comply have serious consequences.
As a result, opportunity to offer our guests more with the Licensing Act requirements.
conflict management training is flexible opening times with respect for undertaken as appropriate within our local communities.
In the vast majority We also regularly audit our businesses to retail management training, helping to of cases our applications were successful.
ensure our practices are being maintained reduce the risk of serious incidents and We do not hold not did we apply for and employ an independent company to better protect both employees and guests.
perform test purchasing visits as an additional check.
Conflict management training also helps The Companys experience has been our staff to manage issues associated with one of successful implementation, much Responsible promotions policy drugs abuse.
Where there is any evidence of this due to extensive education as to As part of our Alcohol and Social of such in our businesses, we move the objectives of the Licensing Act and Responsibility policy we have strict rapidly to assess the situation and take training to ensure these objectives are guidelines in place regarding the pricing appropriate, tough measures to resolve adhered to.
We have seen a marginal and promotion of our drinks.
increase in sales overall, but with less promotional activity must be approved by pressure at closing time and few instances the Marketing Director and observe the Industry partnerships of disorder.
guidelines outlined in our ASR policy.
Mitchells & Butlers works closely with the key authorities, including the Police, Fire, Smoking bans The guiding principles of the Companys Local Authorities and the Government, in We believe the introduction of the smoking policy are: pursuit of our commitment to responsible bans will be beneficial to our businesses in to offer guests real service and value retailing practices.
They present us with a at fair, competitive prices: real opportunity to attract new customers, to seek to encourage guests to return It is Company policy for all pub managers who did not previously use pubs because to Mitchells & Butlers pubs, rather than to join and support their local Pubwatch, of tobacco smoke, to come into our pubs to encourage increased consumption if one exists, which we believe both builds and pub restaurants across the country.
by guests during a single visit: relationships within the area and helps to ensure that guests are offered choice staff identify and resolve potential issues Our experience since the bans came into and value without inducements to drink before they escalate.
force shows that our large pubs, serving to excess.
We will not, for example, high volumes of good food at attractive offer any 2 for the price of 1 drinks Across the country, a number of individual prices, are already seeing this benefit.
promotions: and Mitchells & Butlers pubs have gained Were continuing to develop the to encourage and support designated recognition from city councils and the reputation of our pubs for serving driver and other anti-drink drive police for running safe, responsible good food at good value prices, focusing initiatives.
businesses via the Best Bar None Award on innovation in the development of scheme and City Safe schemes.
our menus and drinks ranges, to appeal Mitchells & Butlers is a member of to a wider consumer base arising from the British Beer & Pub Association and We support regional Crime and Disorder the ban.
played a central role in the formation partnerships and aim to participate fully of the organisations code encouraging in the drive against binge drinking and Gaming promotional activity.
In addition all our its related effects, as outlined in the Mitchells & Butlers was involved in the promotional activity complies with the Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy for creation of the first gaming industry code Portman Groups Code of Practice.
of practice in the 1990s that aimed to prevent under 18s from playing pub Alcohol awareness We also support a number of Business gaming machines.
The Company has Mitchells & Butlers is a major contributor Improvement District schemes BIDs for contributed for many years in cash and to the Drinkaware Trust, an independent example Broad Street, Birmingham and in kind to charities such as GamCare UK-wide charitable trust with the objective the current proposal for Nottingham.
that work in the area of treatment for of positively changing public behaviour problem gamblers.
In recent years, the and the national drinking culture, to Licensing Act Companys contributions have been made tackle alcohol-related harms.
The Licensing Act 2003 came into effect via the Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
From that date A Mitchells & Butlers senior manager Our updated ASR policy issued in August licensed premises have been able to is a trustee in this organisation.
this year now includes details of units make use of any variations to previous of alcohol in relation to the ABV of every opening hours granted by the relevant alcoholic product sold in our pubs, to local authority.
ensure staff can assist customers who ask for guidance.
Brand specific training also highlights ABV information to managers and staff as part of all new product inductions.
ABV information and responsible retailing messages are also included in some drinks menus and promotional materials, to raise staff and customer awareness.
Mitchells & Butlers 25 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate social responsibility continued Mitchells & Butlers, through its support We continue to develop our menus with an independent assessment of of the British Beer & Pub Association, the focus to improve nutritional content.
standards combined with technical has worked closely with the Gambling In August this year, Harvester came top in support on improvement: and Commission on the drafting of the a national comparison of family restaurant education and training provision Gaming Machine Code of Practice, which chains, carried out by an independent for businesses failing to meet our replaced the industrys voluntary Code dietician, on their offer of healthy dishes expectations as to standards.
In addition to the Companys internal Good food Following the successful launch of safety experts, leading consultants in the As the food supply chain becomes nutritional data on the Harvester website fields of food safety and fire safety are also increasingly complex, we take into account in 2006, Toby Carvery will also be retained.
As a result of the audits, the a number of factors when purchasing our launching a nutritional breakdown management of health and safety, food food, including the health and safety of of all menu items in late 2007. safety and fire safety is constantly reviewed our guests, food quality, provenance and and improvements made where necessary.
With large scale national brands Environment competing in different markets, we require Mitchells & Butlers takes its environmental Employees our suppliers to guarantee the supply of responsibilities seriously and has a policy Please refer to section on operational large quantities of quality ingredients for of seeking continuous improvement, excellence in the OFR on page 15. the life of a menu.
Our objective is to offer with particular focus on recycling and competitively priced dishes of appropriate energy usage.
In some instances Mitchells & Butlers is fully aware that this means a regional supplier and in We have an established recycling each one of our businesses has an impact others worldwide suppliers.
programme for both glass and cardboard on its local community.
We aim to ensure in our businesses.
In the last 12 months that this impact is always positive and we The Company carries out an assessment we recycled over 14,000 tonnes of waste.
pursue this through a carefully planned of the environmental policies and blend of local and national initiatives.
practices of its major food suppliers.
We are continuing to make excellent Growers and farmers who supply Mitchells progress in energy saving and, in Our pub managers raise thousands of & Butlers are required to comply with the September, we opened our first green pounds for charity.
They are supported Euro-Retailer Produce Working Groups business, designed to trial a number via the Companys Community Awards standard of good agricultural practice, of energy saving measures, at the Toby and celebrated via the annual Heart of the known as the EurepGAP Standard.
These recognise the efforts of our employees in forging good Mitchells & Butlers also abides by the Health and safety relations with their local communities.
Code of Ethics issued by The Chartered The Company strives to provide a safe A prize fund of 25,000 is collectively Institute of Purchasing & Supply.
environment for all employees, guests received by the award winners for Our guiding principles on corporate and other visitors to its premises and donation to their individually chosen procurement are to: to comply with relevant health and safety good cause.
enable the Company to conduct its legislation.
In addition, the Company: procurement activities in a safe, ethical aims to protect the health Our Employee Community Award scheme and professional manner: of employees with suitable, encourages our employees to support exclude suppliers that disregard health, specific work-based strategies: a charity through their own fundraising safety and welfare: seeks to minimise the risk of injury activity or voluntary work.
During the last ensure all personnel conform with from Company activity: and year 40,000 has been donated by them to national and EU laws: ensures that sufficient resources variety of charities as part of the scheme.
ensure representatives are fair and and information are made available reasonable with suppliers: and suitable management systems Throughout the year we have also made exclude suppliers that exploit are in place to address health and a number of in-kind donations such as people unfairly: and safety matters.
offering use of Company facilities, such utilise suppliers that preferentially as meeting rooms, free of charge, and conserve the environment.
The Board is responsible for ensuring donating complimentary meals in our that sufficient resources are available to businesses to local community groups, We aim to offer a broad range of menu implement its Health and Safety policy.
items across our estate so guests seeking Compliance with Company policy is healthier options have plenty of choice.
monitored and audited centrally and a Our brands are also are key supporters Focus on menu development has enabled comprehensive annual health and safety of national and local charities of their own us to offer guests more variety, from report is produced for the Board.
Harvester restaurants have raised sharing small plate dishes in Ember Inns 33,500 over the last 12 months for the or hand-cut Maris Piper chips in our We use a major, independent safety and childrens charity Make-A-Wish Foundation Metro Professionals format to the Best assurance company to audit and report UK.
In March, Ember Inns launched its of British range in Cornerstone, our on safety practices in all businesses.
second annual Drink Pink fundraising successful community pub format.
We These inspections, which take place campaign for leading charity Against have developed fresh dishes that are at least twice a year, form an essential Breast Cancer.
All Ember Inns pubs healthier and tastier, with a wider taste element of our due diligence and include: donated 5p per glass of rose wine sold, profile and better provenance for independently verified means raising over 17,000 for the charity.
example, organically farmed Shetland of monitoring safety standards: salmon features on the new Vintage Inns consistent audit systems across menu.
Vegetarian options are also now all businesses: available across all our pubs.
26 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review Around 600 pubs including Ember Inns, The OFRs intent is to provide ONeills and Hollywood Bowl offered information to shareholders and should customers a free hot drink, in return not be relied upon by any other party for a voluntary donation, as part of their or for any other purpose.
This OFR, involvement in Macmillan Cancers Worlds and other sections of this Annual Biggest Coffee Morning in September.
Report, contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, We have marked our third year of performance and financial condition partnership with Barnardos with a further of the Group.
By their nature, these 50,000 donation.
Employees have also statements involve uncertainty since future supported the partnerships through events and circumstances can cause results fundraising activities and raised an and developments to differ materially additional 12,600. from those anticipated.
The OFR and other sections of this Annual Report As a leading company with its contain certain forward-looking statements headquarters in Birmingham we also which are made by the Directors in good sponsor a number of successful arts faith based on the information available organisations in the city.
Partnerships to them up to the date of their approval of include the City of Birmingham the financial statements and the Company Symphony Orchestra CBSO, undertakes no obligation to update these Birmingham Royal Ballet BRB, The forward-looking statements.
The forwardBirmingham REP and ExCathedra.
looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, Our special CBSO On the Road including both economic and business programme enters its fifth year of risk factors, underlying any such forwardcommunity based concerts, performed looking information.
Nothing in this by members of the orchestra around the Annual Report should be construed Midlands region.
The concerts allow as a profit forecast.
community organisations to experience a performance from professional musicians The OFR has been prepared for the while providing an excellent fundraising Group as a whole and therefore gives opportunity.
Our long-standing relationship greater emphasis to those matters which with the CBSO was recognised in this are of significance to Mitchells & Butlers years Jaguar Arts & Business Awards, plc and its subsidiary undertakings where the partnership won the inaugural when viewed as a whole.
This year our sponsorship of the Birmingham Royal Ballet has secured additional funds from Arts & Business enabling the BRB to host a series of educational dance workshops in primary schools across the West Midlands.
Including these additional funds from Arts & Business, the Companys total corporate donations were over 215,000 2006, 200,000.
Our role as good neighbours Our pubs and pub restaurants play an important role in the heart of thousands of communities across the UK.
As a Company we committed to encouraging and supporting our businesses in this community role.
Through schemes such as Pubwatch and via our managers taking part in Residents Association meetings, we are able to establish better communication and develop valuable discussion forums for handling and resolving local issues.
Mitchells & Butlers 27 Annual report and accounts 2007
