MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 33 corporate responsibility At MITIE, our approach to CR is an integral part of the way we do business.
Responsible business practice is not only the right approach to take from a moral and ethical standpoint, it also makes good business sense.
We know that our customers prefer to work with an Workplace organisation that manages its business responsibly and The number of people employed by MITIE on 31 March that this approach will provide not only long-term benets 2007 was 44,866.
It is critical that we motivate our people for the environment and the communities in which we and create enthusiastic, respected employees who want operate, but also for the future profitability of our Group.
to do their jobs better than anyone else.
We understand that motivation comes in many shapes and sizes.
It CR and sustainability have always been high on our can be about the way people are treated at work, agenda.
However, we have recognised the need for an the recognition given for a job well done, being kept increased focus on formally setting our objectives and informed, or opportunities to develop skills and careers.
on being able to measure their impact against set targets.
We have identied five priority strategic areas in In recognition of our employees hard work we run line with Business in the Community BitC best practice: numerous annual awards schemes that reward staff that Health and Safety, Workplace, Marketplace, Environment have gone the extra mile for colleagues or customers, and Community, and we are committed to measuring and in February 2007 we launched an Employee Rewards our performance in these areas.
Scheme that offers all employees discounts on a huge range of goods and services.
We have published a separate CR Report which will be issued to all of our Shareholders and to other Engaging with our people is equally important to our stakeholders.
This provides more details on our CR success and to that effect we have a corporate intranet activity and our related performance measures.
site, a senior management magazine, and a Group-wide newspaper.
Encouragingly, these tools have recently Health and safety received recognition for their strategic impact in Health and safety is of paramount importance at MITIE.
supporting sustainable growth and engaging employees It is the first item on every Board agenda.
Our employees via the BIFM Communications and Marketing Award 2006. are our most important asset and it is essential for them to be able to work in a healthy environment that is free This year has also seen us establish the MITIE Central from risks and danger.
Academy of Service Excellence, which provides internal and external training courses for staff and clients in a MITIE has comprehensive systems and processes in place wide range of disciplines.
Investing in people in this way for the management of health and safety.
In the coming is vital: we understand that relevant training will help year, we want to raise the prole of health and safety even us motivate staff and enhance their skill sets, while further and use it as an enabler of increased efficiency improving service delivery for clients.
MITIE is also keen and enhanced working practices.
We are introducing to introduce more skills and new talent to the industry as a new annual Group-wide Health and Safety Performance a whole and supports apprenticeships across the Group, Programme.
This will set the standards for our business, with around 240 apprentices currently working in our define expectations, and help us to further improve our various businesses.
This initiative will ensure that health and safety remains a core objective in In line with this, we launched a new apprenticeship all aspects of MITIEs service delivery.
scheme with Dumfries and Galloway Housing Partnership for the construction of social housing.
At the other end We also understand that training is key to improving safety of the country, we ran our Real Apprentice scheme, skills and awareness.
Eighteen months ago, we focused a programme that for the last two years has been helping management and operator training across many areas to provide opportunities to young people in East London, of the business on working at height and are now seeing an area with some of the highest rates of unemployment the benets with the number of accidents that occur in the country.
The scheme is run in partnership with the having been reduced by 16%.
With such tangible results, East London Business Alliance and has already won our continued investment in training is easy to numerous awards, including a prestigious Big Tick understand: this year we spent over 18,900 hours training Excellence Award 2007 and the 2006 PFM Partners with and developing the core safety competencies of People Award.
It guarantees jobs to successful candidates our people in courses that impact upon the success who complete ten weeks in an ofce support of our business.
work-placement with MITIE at client sites including  and Merrill Lynch.
This year saw another 16 young people offered jobs by MITIE, following in the steps of the nine who were recruited in 2005 06 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 34 Corporate responsibility continued and who are still with us.
The Real Apprentice has been Environment hailed as a best-practice blueprint scheme for helping Almost all of MITIEs operations involve working with to tackle unemployment issues in urban regeneration buildings.
As buildings produce almost half of the UKs areas and has been such a success that as it enters greenhouse gas emissions, MITIE has an important role its third year, we are planning on rolling it out in other to play in helping the country to meet its tough climate areas of the country.
Marketplace During the year we carried out a major exercise to CR is not only an essential part of what MITIE does measure, for the first time, the energy, water, fuel and internally.
The services we offer and the skills we have waste used and produced throughout our organisation.
mean that we can help others achieve their Corporate This is a major part of our commitment to improving Responsibility targets too whether that be through how we measure and benchmark our impacts energy management, skills development, against set targets.
or, for example, through food.
This initiative will help us to focus our efforts on positively With buildings estimated to be responsible for almost reducing our environmental impact.
We think that half of the UKs carbon dioxide emissions, proactivity by calculating and monitoring our Carbon Footprint and MITIE is critical for our clients.
Heating, ventilation, lighting 2 emission is much more effective reducing our rate of CO and air conditioning all need to be considered in the ght than simply buying carbon credits in the market.
to keep efficiency high and carbon dioxide emissions to Importantly, MITIE is not only investing in reducing the a minimum, which MITIE, with 20 years of experience in size of its own carbon emissions, but are helping our this arena, is in a prime position to achieve: transforming clients to reduce theirs too.
MITIE has sought to align the ideals behind sustainability into commercially viable its energy goals with those of its clients for some time realities.
MITIE has its own registered low carbon now and is already working with customers to develop consultants and teams of specialists.
These teams innovative ways that will help them to make a difference.
are helping to ensure the design and application For example, our Security business is now offering energy of more efficient forms of energy generation patrols that will switch off lights and machinery and and distribution in the built environment.
We also provide comprehensive waste MITIEs catering business recognises that the sourcing management and recycling services under of food is also a key CR issue to us.
One measure of our TREEHUGGER brand.
its impact is food miles the distance that food travels from farm to plate.
Excessive food miles can cause environmental, social and economic damage.
We are seeking to reduce our own food miles index by 10% over the next twelve months via reduced delivery frequencies, increased order delivery values and local sourcing.
Quite apart from the environmental impact of transporting goods, locally produced food retains investment in local communities and is often both fresher and more nutritious.
We established a Sustainable Procurement Forum in the year, which is drawing up an expanded ethical trading code to help us source products in the most ethical manner.
Some sustainability issues are clear cut.
We believe it is truly important to be alive to issues, communicate with our stakeholders and proactively meet as many of our sustainability targets as possible.
34 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:05 Page 35 MITIE enables people to full their potential.
Community We believe that providing employment skills to young people is one of the most important things that a MITIE enables people to full their potential the people responsible organisation can do.
However, this only forms in the communities that we work among, as well as the tip of our community investment iceberg.
We have the people who work for us.
also been involved in dozens of community initiatives over the past twelve months, ranging from painting murals We have been creating a network of Construction Skills in schools in Bristol to helping local regeneration and Centres across the country since opening our first centre making and selling a CD with client Rolls-Royce that in Portsmouth in 2001.
The Skills Centres represent MITIEs raised over 25,000 in two hours for charity.
We do this largest community investment and greatest commitment: because the work that MITIE does every day takes us into we opened the fifth, sixth and seventh of these centres the very heart of the communities in which we operate, during 2006 in Birmingham, Ipswich and in Hackney, some of which are among the most disadvantaged London and will be opening the eighth in Airdrie in in the country.
They give young people a chance to realise their potential, offering vocational As we look to the future, our people remain top of our training for all, and are currently helping over 420 1416 strategic agenda.
We will continue to invest time, energy year olds to learn a range of construction skills and obtain and resources into remaining true to the ethos that nationally recognised vocational qualications as part of defines our business: giving opportunity to individuals, the National Curriculum.
The courses in our Skills Centres whatever their background.
We are committed to are delivering qualications that are equivalent to the constantly evaluating new opportunities and risks which attainment of five GCSEs.
will help to shape our CR strategy over the coming years.
Everyone benets from the Skills Centres: from the young individuals whose skills sets, qualications and employment prospects are improved, the schools whose attendance and pass rates have increased and who have access to new funding sources, and to the communities that have access to new facilities out of school hours.
Not forgetting MITIE, whose employees are motivated by their involvement and whose future contains a home grown local pool of talent.
Indeed, the scheme has been so successful that it was rewarded a 2007 Big Tick Excellence Award by Business in the Community.
That is why we are delighted to be one of just three employers invited by the London Development Agency to be part of a new public and private sector partnership in East London.
This is designed, in part, to help deliver central government targets on increasing levels of employment.
That, after all, is central to what MITIE does.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
