Thesecanbe   ourshareholders, ouremployees, the www.
,  Challenge Prioritiesin200 Ourcommitments Sustainable To ensure that our forestry practices To successfully maintain the certification We will meet all requirements of our enable us to provide the future resources of our sustainable forestry practices and Forestry Policy and Operating Standards forestry our business needs in a sustainable trace wood and virgin fibre throughout the to manage risks and issues, including those manner.
supply chain, so enhancing our reputation relating to forest stewardship, responsible as responsible forestry stewards and purchasing, wood tracing, ecosystems and resource developers.
biodiversity action planning, land access and indigenous people.
Reducing As a member of global society, to help To further reduce our environmental We will meet all requirements of our meet the worlds paper and packaging footprint, supported by our key Climate Change and Environmental environmental needs and simultaneously reduce the environmental performance indicators Policies and Operating Standards.
Our environmental footprint of our products, which set specific targets in areas of target is a 15% reduction in carbon-based impact especially mitigating the impact of significant impact.
Going forward, our energy use per unit of production by yeargreenhouse gas emissions on the climate.
current performance results have formed end 2014, against the 2004 baseline.
We the basis for identifying areas which require also have a target of a 15% reduction in enhanced focus and these are reflected in greenhouse gas emissions per unit of our priorities for 2008, including: advances production over the same period.
in the inventory of greenhouse gases, reduction in waste to landfill in South Africa and plans for further reduction of organic waste water loads.
Safetyandhealth To achieve our vision of zero-harm To eliminate fatalities from our business.
We value life above all else and regard one workplaces, ensuring that all people Our plan is to address our most material injury as one too many.
Our commitment stewardship working for Mondi understand, rigorously safety risks in 2008 with a focus on to achieve a level of performance below apply, and fully comply with our safety transportation, in particular mobile plant 0.5 TRCR Total Recordable Case Rate standards.
Our occupational and and equipment.
In addition, we are and below 0.1 LTIFR Lost Time Injury community health challenge is to ensure targeting a significant reduction in injuries Frequency Rate by year-end 2010 is that our health programmes recognise and to hands across the Group in 2008.
We are considered to be world-class.
This, influence the health factors which impact also taking further steps to address the risk together with achieving our other target our employees, contractors, their families of noise-induced hearing loss.
We are of zero fatalities, will take us closer to our and our neighbouring communities.
continuing to work at a local level to fight stated objectives of zero-harm workplaces HIV AIDS in South Africa, by both and safety excellence.
educating our communities and managing disease infection rates.
Long-termsocial, To understand social and community To continue with community participation We will be a role model in terms of social issues and expand our role as corporate and engagement.
While Mondi operates impact and transparency in our industry.
community citizens, so that the communities in which the majority of its community engagement To achieve this, we will continue with we operate value our citizenship.
programmes at a local level, it facilitates community engagement plans for all andstakeholder a consistent approach to community significant operations.
We will continue to relationships development via the Socio-Economic make anti-retroviral treatment available to Assessment Toolbox SEAT.
employees to combat HIV AIDS in South Africa.
We will also maintain a merit-based and empowering culture which meets the requirements of our Corporate Citizenship and Global Employment Policies and Operating Standards.
32 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 During the year, we worked to These include the Greater St Lucia Forestry take the best of our former parents Wetlands Park, where we were We have a forestry policy that, sustainability culture and use it to the first commercial organisation among other commitments, binds before... during... shape and inform our own across a to delineate an accurate ecous to increasing the volume of range of key focus areas including boundary line between a World sustainable fibre we produce per forestry, the environment, safety Heritage Site and a forestry unit of area, to practising active for employees, contractors, plantation.
stewardship of our land and its communities and consumers of our Certification is very important ecosystems, and to promoting products and social responsibility.
for any forestry business and the interests of indigenous people we use both the FSC Forest In doing so, we have begun and communities.
Stewardship Council and PEFC to create a sustainability ethos that We are developing a new model for The Programme for the Endorseis individually Mondis, shaped to our forestry operations, based on... today ment of Forest Certification reflect the nature of our operations still-emerging scientific knowledge schemes in Mondi.
Currently all in some of the worlds most and engagement with communities 350,000 hectares of Mondi land environmentally and socially Casestudy and Non Government in South Africa are FSC-certified sensitive regions.
Rehabilitating Organisations NGOs, to meet as are 1.6 million hectares in At the heart of this is the developenvironmental, social and climate Russias Komi Republic.
thewetlands ment of our own Sustainable change challenges.
Today, we are placing much Development Management The Mondi Wetlands Project Our work includes a number of emphasis on helping the small System SDMS, which we aims to bring about the reimportant areas of investigation growers from whom we buy timber completed during 2007.
This is habilitation, wise use and in our South African plantations in Europe and South Africa to gain a comprehensive sustainability sustainable management of that are already producing some certification.
To ease the often management system, owned at valuable wetlands, including very encouraging environmental complex and costly certification Group level and applicable to all springs and seeps, marshes, results.
For example, we are process for them, we are working our sites, operations and activities floodplains, swamp forests, working with Professor Michael to find an acceptable and practical throughout the world.
Samways, who heads the solution with many partners It is widely recognised as South Including our sustainability policies, Department of Conservation including The Forests Dialogue Africas most successful nonmanagement and operating Ecology and Entomology at and a number of key NGOs and governmental wetlands project, standards, commitments and Stellenbosch University.
His certification bodies, including WWF successfully promoting performance requirements, the research is showing that leaving and local Russian NGO Silver Taiga.
conservation among governSDMS is also supported by a set undeveloped corridors of land ment agencies and private and To maintain our own certification of auditable standards, which will between different ecosystems communal wetland users.
and to meet our commitments, assist us in achieving our stimulates biodiversity in areas we are ensuring that we and our commitment of full compliance that have already been affected suppliers comply fully with the with the SDMS by 2010.
In addition, by forestry or agriculture.
protection of High Conservation we have developed a set of In parallel, our land in South Africa Value HCV forests.
As part of this transparent and measurable is home to a range of practical effort, during 2007 we continued improvement targets across the experiments and trials aimed at our work on the development of Group.
These can be found in full enabling the recovery of natural a risk-based tracing system that in our sustainability report at freshwater resources.
This has will enable us to assure the www.
resulted in our taking some sustainability of all the wood we We made progress in many areas 5% of our land out of production use.
We will support the system in 2007, some of which we describe to create treeless buffer zones in with all the resources, training, in this review.
Many of the issues riparian waterside areas or next to education, consultation and facing us, however, are long-term wetlands, which has led to the rapid auditing needed to ensure that challenges which require long-term recovery of threatened resources.
we can consistently meet our solutions.
Our commitment to seek commitments.
Scientific research of this kind is ever more sustainable ways of enabling our involvement in several In these and other ways, we are working across the Group will projects where intensive forestry is working to meet our commitment therefore remain a fundamental now operating hand-in-hand with only to use wood, fibre and biomass reality of our business for many world-class conservation activities.
Sustainability review Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 33 Sustainabilityreview continued We have also invested widely in the The year saw major reductions Theenvironment Safety energy efficiency of our production in the two most significant waste Under Mondis environmental Safety is always the first agenda processes.
This involves a wide water loads emitted during the pulp policy, the Group is committed to item at Board and DLC executive range of individual projects, from and paper-making process: AOX integrating environmental principles committee meetings as we pursue using improved, more efficient chlorinated organics and COD such as conserving raw materials, our zero-harm policy of seeking compressed air systems or chemical oxygen demand.
using clean production processes to prevent any injury to our staff water pumps, to reducing water Following an ongoing investment and reducing emissions from our or contractors.
During 2007, we consumption through the use of programme, we reduced total COD operations.
introduced a new set of nine safety closed-loop systems and increasing levels by 21% from our baseline rules to live by.
As a significant part the motor efficiencies of equipment level of 138,523 tonnes in 2005.
A primary focus for us is to restrict of our Group safety requirements, throughout the business.
In terms of AOX, we reduced total our emissions of greenhouse we also initiated a Group-wide levels by 65% from 439 tonnes in gases, and we drive year-on-year The gains to be made from each focus on the four main areas that 2005 to 152 tonnes in 2007. reductions through a Group-wide individual improvement are likely we have identified as critical to energy strategy that ensures we to be small but replicating them Mondi is also committed to improving our safety record: people, keep our financial and environmental in tens of sites across Mondi makes reducing its emissions into the process, emergency preparation & energy costs as low as possible.
a powerful contribution towards atmosphere to as low a level as response and crisis management.
helping us achieve our carbon possible in all its plants throughThis is based on four central While the year saw the continuation emission goals.
out the world, through a set of requirements: of a significant ongoing trend that ambitious improvement targets Across Mondi, as a direct result managing energy price volatility has seen our lost-time injury LTI supported and enabled by a of investing in our own energy effectively: frequency rate fall from 0.47 in 2004 rolling investment programme.
production, we reduced our to 0.23 in 2007 the number of LTIs consistently improving the consumption of electrical energy The main issues affecting us are multiplied by a factor of 200,000 energy-efficiency of our from the grid by 4,788GWh in emissions of Total Reduced Sulphur divided by the total man-hours production processes: 2007 from 2006.
TRS, Sulphur Dioxide SO and, 2 worked across the entire Group to a lesser degree, Nitrogen Oxide increasing the proportion of during the year, it was marred Where possible, we have replaced NOx and other particulates.
power that we produce ourselves: by the deaths of three of our the inefficient production typical contractors.
We have focused of a conventional power plant with The majority of TRS emissions increasing the overall share significant resources on establishing close to 100% implementation of are caused by the pulp-making of energy from renewable the precise causes of these tragic greatly more efficient combined process and a focus on our sources as a proportion of accidents and have taken action heat and power CHP technology.
pulp mills has helped us reduce the energy we use.
to ensure that everyone in the total emissions by 60% from 2005 Our industry has the potential In 2007, we made progress on all business has the support needed to 2007.
Significantly, investments to reduce its carbon impact by these fronts.
For example, the 1991 to prevent future incidents.
at our Merebank mill in South Africa replacing fossil fuels such as Kyoto Protocol enables us to invest have seen an 80% reduction in total Forestry is the area of our business coal, lignite brown coal or cost-effectively in so-called Clean SO emission levels since 2004.
2 with the highest safety risks, and we gas with renewable biological Development Mechanism CDM are running initiatives in both Russia power sources such as our ownCareful management continues projects in developing countries, and South Africa to create a safer produced biomass, black liquor, to achieve progressive reductions so enabling us to manage the cost working environment.
In South sludge and other renewable fuels.
in the waste we send to landfill.
For more than Africa, these include an initiative Currently, 41% of our total energy To date we have reduced total two years, we successfully focused called Phepha the Zulu word for is from biomass.
waste to landfill by 20% from our on developing the methodology safety, which we are now also 2005 total.
for CDM projects the results Such efforts have also enabled us bringing to our contractors, and of this work came to fruition in to reduce our total CO emissions 2 a highly effective traffic light card South Africa during 2007 with the from fossil fuels by 6% from 2004 system, red for danger, green for completion of a bark boiler and gas to 2007. good practice.
turbine at our Richards Bay mill.
34 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 We also work consistently to in a wide range of carefully selected Socialresponsibility Casestudy help promote the health of our small businesses.
Promoting health more widely is people.
One example of this was Protecting Mondi Zimele is a key constituent also an important element of our an AIDS-awareness initiative in our efforts to support the South work with communities and we run pristineforest conducted by the clinic at our African government with its ongoing a number of schemes throughout Richards Bay mill.
This facility As we work to ensure the transformation of business and the our operations, from supporting a has won two prizes in the 2007 protection of High Conservation economy, which aims to ensure that hospital in Ruomberok, Slovakia, South African Occupational Health Value HCV forest in Russias black and female representation in to funding a trauma clinic near Nursing Practitioners Awards.
It Komi Republic, one of the the ownership and management of Johannesburg that opened in was selected as the outstanding greatest challenges is identifying companies should eventually match November 2007. practice and Christine Viljoen, those pristine areas, with a very the wider demographics of the who runs the clinic, was chosen as We base this work on real needs, high ecological value, in which country as a whole.
the Occupational Health Nursing identified through in-depth Sociologging should not take place.
This transformation, supported Economic Assessment Toolbox This is particularly difficult, particularly by the Broad-Based SEAT reports involving wideOur commitment to safety also because such protection is Black Economic Empowerment ranging interviews and liaison extends to our products, and we not enshrined in legislation.
BBBEE legislation, is behind with stakeholders throughout the are constantly investing in new In addition, it is necessary our efforts both to change the communities where we operate concepts and applications that to balance appropriately the management profile of our business material sites.
These give us protect our customers and end interests of a range of and to procure products and detailed insight into how our consumers.
services from more black-owned activities impact on communities, For this reason, in our packaging companies.
We have wide-ranging and highlight areas where our input Our solution is to work business we are going beyond training and development can be of true sustainable value.
co-operatively with different the legislative requirements of programmes in place, alongside interest groups, including such In South Africa, helping the EU human food hygiene rules, a merit-based promotion and stakeholders as the local government combat the countrys by implementing one of two recruitment policy that favours population and administration, HIV AIDS epidemic is a major focus additional forms of certification.
black applicants when all other other companies, NGOs and for us, both providing education These are Hazard Analysis Critical criteria are equal.
the government and State Forest and support programmes for our Control Points, an internationally Service of the Komi Republic.
This approach is having a signifistaff and working with communities, recognised system for food safety To date, some 23% of the cant impact on the make-up of including an outreach scheme to management, and the British Republics 21 million hectares our business.
At our Springs mill, help children orphaned by the Retail Consortium and Institute of of productive forest has been for example, black management disease.
Packagings BRC IOP technical identified as pristine, and we representation has risen from standard and protocol that sets Another important focus is have helped negotiate full 0% in 1998 to 34% today, and the food packaging quality for retailereducation, and we are involved solutions for 800,000 hectares, proportion continues to increase.
in a wide range of projects from and a partial solution for a further This is one result of our commitpromoting the study of maths 1.2 million.
Together, these two schemes and science in South Africa to ment to global employment certify that we have addressed all Mondi and local NGO Silver standards and ethical business working with schools in Russia relevant regulations covering food Taiga have also created together and Slovakia.
Some 25 of the 40 relevant an inventory of over 3.4 million sophisticated benchmarking Mondi plants achieved full We are also committed to hectares of pristine forest, as well schemes that measure us against certification in 2007, and work supporting small businesses based as gaining significant experience acknowledged global leaders.
around our operations, and we run in managing HCV forests during Using MORIS Mondi Reporting many schemes aimed at helping the FSC certification process.
and Information System, our new local companies flourish as part This is helping us ensure that the Group-wide sustainability platform, of our supply chain.
These include forestry activities we undertake we are successfully identifying, a formal preferred supplier scheme are environmentally and socially sharing and applying throughout at wiecie in Poland, where our responsible.
Looking ahead, our the Group the best management procurement practices favour the plan for 2008 includes reaching practices that we find within our regions small and medium agreement on new areas and operations across the world.
enterprises over international opening dialogue on others.
In South Africa, our The full sustainability report is enterprise development arm Mondi available for download from Mondis Zimele invests funds and expertise website at www.
Sustainability review Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 35
