22 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Corporate Responsibility Report This is the first time the Group has commented on its role as a The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The corporate citizen although the Group has always operated with Group aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, an underlying awareness of its wider responsibilities.
directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, nationality citizenship, sex, sexual orientation Communities and charities or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part The Group recognises it has a responsibility to support the time or on the grounds of age.
development of local communities and has fostered links with them over a number of years through its donations to local The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and charitable causes.
In August each year, employees vote for their the positive benets to the Group.
Therefore our commitment to choice of local charity for the following 12 months.
Various events health and safety makes good business sense.
are then held within the Group during that year to raise money for that charity.
The Group matches amounts raised by The Group has a health and safety policy which is communicated employees from those events.
to all employees through a health and safety handbook.
The health and safety handbook is regularly reviewed and updated.
Between August 2006 and July 2007, a total of 8,185 was donated by the Group to Capricorn Animal Rescue, a local Supporting students Welsh charity which cares for animals.
In order to build links between the Group and schools and colleges, the Group offers work experience and placements to The current Group Charity of the Year is BIRD Brain Injury students.
In doing so, we strive to make work placements Rehabilitation & Development, a Chester based charity, which positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies provides a unique programme to aid the rehabilitation of people and their future job prospects.
As at 31 December 2007, 2,425 had been raised for BIRD.
Consumers The Group is committed to providing a high quality price Environment comparison service to consumers, enabling them to compare The Group strives to reduce energy and raw material usage to a wide range of products in the finance, insurance, travel and support environmental and financial performance.
The Group home services markets, and to nd the product most suited currently provides facilities for paper to be recycled and utilises to their needs.
energy saving systems in its ofces.
To maintain high levels of consumer satisfaction, the Group is The Group has chosen not to set environmental key performance constantly assessing the views of its consumers and undertaking indicators due to its relative size and the limited impact it has on consumer testing of its website.
The Group provides consumers the environment.
with information from a variety of sources such as editorial content, consumer and expert reviews, forums and community Employees features to enrich their shopping experience.
The Group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities by regular briengs and the circulation to employees of relevant information including corporate announcements and the Group newsletter.
