Corporate Social Responsibility Open pit at Los Pelambres.
The Esperanza project will cover various areas The Esperanza project intends to ensure that at least 30% of the staff of social activity.
come from the Antofagasta region.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 36 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT Contents Description of Groups Activities 38 Occupational Health 46 Governance and Ethics 39 Safety 48 Systems and Risk Management 39 Environment 49 Communication 42 Community Relations 55 Working in Partnership with Other Organisations 42 Awards and Recognition 59 Human Resources 44 As explained in the Chairmans Review on pages Introduction 5 to 21, the Group has recently acquired a number The Group aims to discover world class mineral of growth opportunities in Chile and abroad, and deposits and develop and operate its assets safely, continues to seek opportunities to secure world-class responsibly and efficiently, in order to provide good mining assets.
At the same time, the mining industry returns to shareholders and benefit stakeholders in Chile has been confronted by new issues in areas throughout economic cycles.
Sustainable development such as energy and water usage, labour markets, considerations are an integral part of the Groups increased competition for resources and increased decision-making process and it adopts a long-term scrutiny from its different stakeholders.
These view in formulating strategy, company policy and developments provide new challenges and everyday business procedures.
opportunities which need to be addressed in Mining companies can be instrumental in the an effective and timely manner while taking the development of economies and communities.
sustainable development considerations outlined The Group recognises both its global and local above into account.
responsibilities and seeks to contribute to the socioAccordingly, during 2007 the Board decided to develop economic development of communities located around and implement a Sustainable Development Policy to its operations and projects principally through forming provide a structured framework through which its mutually beneficial local partnerships.
strategy and growth plans could be achieved: Some of the Groups operations have sustainable formulation of this is now in progress.
This development policies in place, which are implemented process, which is being led by the mining divisions in day-to-day business in a number of ways.
The environmental and external affairs departments, has Group places the adoption of safe work practices involved Board members, senior management at at the centre of operational activity.
It exercises corporate and operational level and the sustainability stewardship of natural resources to manage social teams of each mining operation.
The process and environmental risk and to minimise pollution and will result in specific policies for environment and environmental footprint: this includes an integrated community relations which are currently under review approach to the conservation of biodiversity and and are intended to be applied across the Group.
It seeks to minimise The Group has also placed greater emphasis stoppages in its mining and processing operations, on its accountability for reporting on sustainable minimise costs and maximise the benefit gained from development matters beyond the information a motivated workforce.
These policies and practices contained in this Annual Report.
During 2007, are underlined by a culture of strong management Los Pelambres published its first annual sustainability combined with a focus on innovation, exploration report relating to the 2006 calendar year as well as and investment.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 37 Corporate Social Responsibility continued a separate report on its integral health system model: Antofagasta Minerals S. A. has also issued a publication to show different initiatives the mining division has taken on environmental and community issues.
Description of the Groups Activities Mining The Groups three mines are managed by experienced executives under the supervisory umbrella of Santiagobased Antofagasta Minerals S. A. AMSA.
AMSAs activities are outlined in the Chairmans Review on page 8.
Los Pelambres is a world class porphyry copper mine owned 60% by the Group and 40% by two Japanese Los Pelambres truck maintenance depot.
Located in the high Andes near Salamanca in Chiles IV Region, its operations extend from its As explained in the Chairmans Review on pages 12 and open pit high in the Cordillera to its dedicated port 13, Michilla is currently reviewing several options in order near Los Vilos.
Los Pelambres produces copper and to extend its mine life which currently runs to the end molybdenum concentrate with gold and silver credits of 2009 and continue production at its SX-EW plant.
Tailings are currently held Production and sales details for the three mines are in a dam in the Cuncumen Valley to the south of shown on pages 22 and 143.
Ore reserve and mineral the concentrator plant.
Work has proceeded on resource estimates for each mine are shown on the Mauro tailings dam which is described in more page 146. detail in the Chairmans Review on page 10.
Copper The Group has a portfolio of exploration and concentrate is transported by pipeline 120 kms to the development projects to which it extends similar coast, where it is dewatered, dried and stored prior sustainability considerations as it does to its existing to shipment by sea.
The molybdenum concentrate is mines.
The most advanced is the Esperanza project, packed in drums and shipped from the concentrator which is located approximately four kms south plant to roasters.
Development of Esperanza received El Tesoro, 100% owned by the Group, is located Board approval in June 2007 and the Group has in the Atacama mining district in northern Chiles II submitted an Environmental Impact Assessment Region about 200 kms north east of Antofagasta with EIA which is expected to be approved in mid-2008.
good road and rail access to the ports of Antofagasta Construction should take place between 2008 and and Mejillones.
El Tesoro is an open pit operation and 2010 and Esperanza is expected to produce copper uses a conventional heap-leach SX-EW process to concentrate containing a significant gold credit produce LME Grade A copper cathodes.
from the end of 2010 and molybdenum from 2015.
Other projects include Antucoya, located approximately Michilla, which is 74.2% owned by the Group, is 35 kms from Michilla, and the Reko Diq joint venture, located about 100 kms north of Antofagasta and is the a copper-gold deposit in south-west Pakistan, both Groups first mine acquired in 1983.
Michilla is a mixed of which are expected to undergo feasibility studies copper oxide and sulphide orebody and mines its ore during 2008.
In addition, the Group has an active from a combination of open pit and underground exploration programme in the Sierra Gorda district operations.
Michillas plant is similar to El Tesoro and surrounding El Tesoro, a target generation programme also produces LME Grade A copper cathodes through in Chiles II and IV Regions and an active search for the heap-leach SX-EW process.
Michilla is connected other opportunities both in Latin America and globally.
by road to the ports of Mejillones and Antofagasta.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 38 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT developed their own business principles and Transportation procedures to ensure good governance and adherence The Antofagasta Railway FCAB has become one to ethics.
The Group seeks to ensure similar standards of the largest combined rail and road transportation are maintained by its joint venture partners.
Further companies in Chile due mainly to the phenomenal details of the Groups corporate governance and risk growth of mining in the II Region over the last management practices are set out in the Corporate decade.
It also controls the Andino network in Bolivia.
Governance statement on pages 64 to 71.
The combined networks, with a total of 2,350 kms of track, transported 5.0 million tons by rail and 1.3 million The Group also has a Corporate Code of Ethics which tons by road in 2007.
The FCAB is regulated by the has been adopted by the Board and is aimed at all Superintendency of Railways.
Details of tonnage employees and contractors who are expected to transported are shown on page 143. understand and fully comply with its requirements.
The Groups Code of Ethics sets the guidelines for Water all employees behaviour, highlighting the importance Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. ADASA is based in of honesty, integrity and commitment, and warning Chiles II Region where it supplies water for domestic of potential conflicts of interest and independence.
and industrial use as well as treating waste water.
It is regulated by the Chilean Water Authority and the Systems and Risk Management Superintendency of Sanitary Services.
Water statistics Systems are shown on page 143.
Management systems are in place at all the Groups operations, to ensure quality of processes and Governance and Ethics products, health and safety of the workforce and The Group is committed to conducting business in compliance with environmental standards.
During an accountable and transparent way reflecting the 2007 the Group continued obtaining certification to interests of all stakeholders who may be affected by international standards for management systems and its activities.
In so doing, the Group demands honesty, has set targets for 2008.
The progress achieved and integrity and responsibility from those related to it.
targets are summarised in the table below and on It ensures that human rights, customs and values of pages 39 and 40.
Where international standards are its employees are respected, that information about not applied, companies use management systems its activities is properly communicated and that under relevant national standards or have developed environmental matters are properly considered.
In order to achieve this, it has corporate procedures, Risk management management structures and risk management The Directors responsibilities for risk management, procedures in place at both Group level and at the internal control, internal and external communications business units.
In addition to the Groups procedures together with the role of the Audit Committee are and structures, the principal operations have Status of certification of ISO 14.001 environmental management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Whole company Version 2004, Certified: July 2006 El Tesoro Whole company Version 2004, Certified: February 2006 Michilla Whole company Under evaluation FCAB Whole company Under evaluation ADASA Operative areas of the company Under evaluation treatment plants, distribution of potable water and sewer system Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 39 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Status of certification ISO 9.001 quality management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Exploration, extraction, processing of minerals, Version: 2000, Certified: June 2006 transport via pipeline and loading of copper concentrate El Tesoro Whole company In process of implementation with expected certification during 2008 Michilla Whole company Implementation process to begin in February 2008 FCAB Management services transport of copper and Certified: 2003 with scope enlargement sulphuric acid with enlarged scope to include in January 2007 mineral concentrates and general loading services Integral Repair Shop Centre electrical control Certified: July 2005 of locomotives, repair and maintenance services with scope enlargement to cover design and metrology Engineering and services electrical motors Certified: January 2005 repair and maintenance and components recovery with scope enlargement to production management, engineering projects and operator training Train Ltda.
Storage and transfer of sulphuric acid and Certified: October 2006 copper cathodes, transport of lime and cement Status of certification OHSAS 18.001 safety and occupational health management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Whole company Version 1999, Certified: June 2006 El Tesoro Whole company Certified: March 2006 Michilla Whole company Certified: October 2006 FCAB Whole company Certified: June 2007 ADASA Operative areas of the company Under evaluation treatment plants, distribution of potable water and sewer system Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 40 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT Other international and national standards Company Standard Los Pelambres Punta Chungo: The International Ship and Port Security Code ISPS certification in June 2004 Michilla At the Caleta Michilla Maritime Terminal: The International Ship and Port Security Code ISPS certification in July 2004 FCAB Competitive Company Programme, in collaboration with a health care association to manage company risk ADASA Water Quality Laboratory: accredited by INN, the Chilean National Standardisation Institute in NCh-17025, Chilean standard certification equivalent to ISO for controlling and quality of water.
Accreditation for Laboratory Tests in microbiology and chemical physics is a requirement of the Superintendency of Sanitary Services El Tesoro System to identify, evaluate and prepare action plans related to worker behaviour, supervisor leadership and the practice of the self-care concept, developed in collaboration with the Mutual fide Seguridad, a national organisation which aims to promote health and safety at work described in the Corporate Governance report on An online information system is also in place to pages 68 to 70.
The main risk factors relevant to manage and report incidents and to collate safety the Group are set out in the Financial Review on statistics on a centralised basis through the Groups pages 33 to 35. intranet.
Employees and contractors who are in charge of an operation or project are responsible for managing The Groups risk management system has been risk as it occurs.
Using the system they are able to developed in-house and is based on conceptual identify risks including possible losses, incidents and models and various existing risk management areas of non-compliance and controls.
Its purpose is to monitor and increase the on the system is periodically updated and reviewed at contribution from each company through a central each business unit by a risk control manager as well system designed to prevent potential incidents which as the risk management team at Group level, which could generate losses and reduce the impact of reports the information including safety statistics and unavoidable incidents.
Risk maps identifying key measures this against performance targets for the areas exist at each business unit and risk management Group and individual operations.
Some operations processes are embedded at all levels including the have had risk management systems audited as part early project stage, for example at the Esperanza of the requirement for obtaining ISO and OHSAS project in Chile and the Reko Diq project in Pakistan.
The Group shares information The Groups approach to risk also takes into account relating to risk management with other mining sustainability considerations.
During 2007, for example, companies in Chile.
a diagnosis including a stakeholder map was made by Los Pelambres of its operations and surrounding areas, The tables on pages 39 and 40 show the various to identify priority areas and define action plans.
aspects of the detailed processes established by A reputational survey with local communities was Group companies which have been certified under also carried out at some of the Groups operations ISO 14.001 for environmental management, ISO 9.001 to provide relevant input for the risk management for quality management and OHSAS 18.001 for safety processes in this area.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 41 Corporate Social Responsibility continued for each operation and project and the introduction Communication of measureable action plans and training.
The Group recognises the importance of timely and accurate information flows, both within the Internal communication within the Group is Groups companies and with external stakeholders.
achieved through regular staff meetings with senior Communication channels include websites, intranets, management.
The principal business units publish publications, consultation procedures and face-to-face regular magazines and use intranets to communicate meetings with internal and external parties.
The Group Group principles and ethics as well as to facilitate the is committed to maximising transparency within the flow of information throughout the Group.
parameters of good business sense and commercial confidentiality.
The Board expects its Directors, Working in Partnership with senior management and other staff to behave with Other Organisations integrity and comply with the ethical standards of The Group believes that communication and the Group and their own professions in preparing and consultation with governments, non-governmental publishing information, for example financial reports organisations and labour and financial institutions and press updates.
is crucial for the development of economies and communities.
Partnerships facilitate the development External communication is achieved at Group and of sound technologies to improve operational business unit level through the publication of financial, processes, products, and protection of the operational and social and environmental data.
The Group also considers that its own includes production reports, financial reports including decision-making processes benefit from consultation the Annual Report, preliminary, interim and quarterly with relevant stakeholders.
Accordingly, it seeks to figures and press releases through the Regulatory work closely with host countries and communities News Service of the London Stock Exchange for any and communicates its views to governmental agencies material developments.
Spanish language releases either directly or through industry associations and are also published contemporaneously in Santiago.
representative bodies at both national and At the business unit level, information about international levels.
operational activities is also made available to During 2007, AMSA together with other mining local stakeholders through community consultation companies and institutions approached the Ministry programmes, open meetings and memos.
Grievance of Mining with a proposal: Education and Mining: procedures allow interested parties to lodge complaints the Streak of Development.
This proposal is aimed and request information.
Recently, the Group has at enhancing students knowledge and understanding placed greater emphasis on communications with of mining activities by including mining education in communities in the areas around which its operations the school curriculum in Chile.
and projects are located: for example in the Esperanza project, which was approved during 2007, dialogue AMSA was one of the main sponsors of the with local communities has been encouraged and first Mining Course for Journalists organised developed from the start.
by SONAMI the National Mining Society, to encourage the development of closer relationships As explained in the Introduction to this report, between mining companies, SONAMI and the Los Pelambres published a sustainability report in media.
Over 50 journalists participated in the 2007 as well as a separate report on its integral health training course.
system model: AMSA has also issued a publication to Exponor is an international bi-annual event organised show different initiatives the mining division has taken by the Antofagasta Association of Industrialists.
on environmental and community issues.
This forms It took place most recently in July 2007 in the part of an overall effort to enhance communications Antofagasta Region where mining accounts for including the development of a communications plan Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 42 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT Organisations of which Group companies are members Organisation Description Group Membership Sociedad Nacional fide An industry body that is an association grouping Los Pelambres and Michilla Minera fide Chile SONAMI private entrepreneurs of small, medium and large size mining companies.
It represents, leads and looks after the interests of the private mining sector in relation to public and private institutions, authorities, and the local and international communities Consejo Minero fide Chile An association of 17 large size Chilean mining Los Pelambres Consejo Minero companies founded in 1998 for the purpose of protecting, promoting and supporting the Chilean mining sector International Copper An international organisation for promoting the AMSA through one of its subsidiaries Association ICA use of copper worldwide and co-ordinating and improving the effectiveness of international market development, research, and technology activities of the industry International Molybdenum An international organisation which aims to AMSA through one of its subsidiaries Association IMOA promote the use of molybdenum, gather technical literature and scientific data on environmental issues, prepare industry guidelines and collect historical statistics on global demand and supply Antofagasta Association An organisation which aims to foster the El Tesoro of Industrialists concept of sustainable development and Michilla promote policies and ideas to the community ADASA and other businesses FCAB AccionRSE An organisation developed as a result of a AMSA private initiative, to promote good corporate Los Pelambres social responsibility practices public sectors, promote development and encourage approximately 90% of regional exports.
Exponor business and the sharing of technology between is one of the largest mining conferences in Latin producers.
At this years event, commercial activity America with a focus on promoting mining in the generated business to the value of US$180 million and Antofagasta region and was attended by some 400 contributed to local commerce.
AMSA participated as companies and 25,000 people including suppliers, an exhibitor for the first time and presented an update technicians and professionals working in the mining on the Esperanza project which will be an important industry.
The event aims to promote mining, local employer in the future.
encourage relationships between the private and Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 43 Corporate Social Responsibility continued legal, union and remuneration issues.
This review Human Resources looks three years ahead to identify the challenges The Group recognises that its most important facing each company and an action plan is then assets are its people.
It operates within the existing formulated and updated regularly by senior employment legislation in Chile and continually management.
improves working conditions by applying best management practices to maintain a motivated labour El Tesoro became the first company in Chile to sign force and harmonious employment relations, improve an agreement with the National Service for Women safety conditions and promote a healthy lifestyle SERNAM to implement a series of actions intended amongst its employees and subcontractors.
to promote gender equality in the workplace in 2007 The Group also respects employee rights by as part of the Groups non-discrimination objective.
banning discrimination in the workplace.
As part of Similarly, during the development of the Tesoro Northits management of human resources to achieve these East project, El Tesoro incorporated workers from objectives, the Group considers the business cycle, Calama, Antofagasta and Sierra Gorda in its operations environmental factors, socio-economic and political in order to ensure that employment opportunities were factors as well as the expectations of its employees made available locally.
Employing a local workforce on both a medium and long-term basis.
It also aims, required an intensive training programme at the as far as possible, for labour to be sourced locally in Technological Mining Centre to improve its ability order to ensure that the benefits of its operations and to operate heavy equipment safely.
Many of the 80 projects are shared with the communities in which participants on the programme were later employed these are located.
as fulltime workers at El Tesoro and Esperanza.
The Esperanza project wants to ensure that at least 30% In order to achieve this, AMSA, encourages the mining of workers in its construction and operations areas division to develop suitable policies, guidelines and will be from the Antofagasta region.
In order to management procedures in line with the overall create a qualified labour force that can achieve the corporate vision outlined in its manual of general high standards required by the project, a training management policies for human resources.
In 1997, programme will be established for approximately AMSA implemented a Labour Control System for all 1,000 people including school leavers.
its operations and projects and which involves periodic reviews and audit of labour practices.
The Group keeps In 2007, the Group employed an average of 3,323 its human resource systems and procedures under employees.
An analysis by business segment is regular annual review and identifies and considers provided in Note 7 a to the financial statements.
Shift meeting at El Tesoro.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 44 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT beginning of the programme over 2,000 proposals Compensation, recruitment and retention have been submitted by employees of which Competition for labour continues in Chile and the 360 have been implemented.
At Michilla, workers Group offers competitive remuneration packages to skills are assessed in relation to their employment secure and retain good employees.
All the Groups requirements through a Labour Capabilities Unit, operations seek to encourage their employees to and a training programme is designed based on achieve high performance levels with salary increases any gaps identified.
El Tesoro has also developed and bonuses linked to productivity and individual a training plan involving both internal and external performance.
In addition to the normal yearly salary courses, which are regularly assessed for quality.
surveys, a detailed review of the compensation structure was carried out during 2007 to ensure Unions the competitiveness of the packages offered.
The Group respects freedom of association by its The recommendations resulting from this review labour force and union membership in the Groups will be implemented during 2008. companies exceeds 80%.
Collective bargaining As explained above, the Group seeks where possible processes have resulted in collective employment to recruit employees from communities near its agreements establishing remuneration levels as well operations and from universities and technical as terms and conditions of employment.
Recruitment and selection processes are uses a model for managing its relationship with trade under constant review in view of the continued tight unions which is regularly reviewed and a monthly labour market to ensure that the right calibre of staff survey summarises relevant issues which have arisen can be recruited.
During 2007, a study was carried in the previous month.
There are eleven labour unions out amongst employees to identify the main factors representing employees within the Group: four at affecting employee retention and a number of FCAB, one at Michilla, two at El Tesoro, two at initiatives will be implemented in 2008 to meet Los Pelambres and two at ADASA.
Group aggregate remuneration is set out in Note 7 b to the financial statements.
Career development and training Career development is important to the Groups operations which offer employees new opportunities to achieve higher levels of seniority and remuneration through internal recruitment processes and certification of abilities.
Regular training programmes allow employees, contractors and sub-contractors to update their skills and abilities as well as promoting good working relationships.
Courses have included risk prevention, environmental protection, quality and occupational health, technology, business culture and management philosophy.
At Los Pelambres, the System to Reward Creativity and Innovation SRCI programme has been applied since 2004.
On a yearly basis, the programme encourages employee participation through the submission of innovative proposals to improve the companys operations in different areas.
Since the Training at Salamanca near Los Pelambres.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued During 2007, Los Pelambres and Michilla reached Similar practices are carried out in other operations.
new agreements with their unions for periods of up to At Michilla, labour audits are regularly carried out on four years, approximately six months ahead of the due collaborating companies to ensure their compliance dates for each negotiation, thus underlining the good with legal requirements and to allow Michilla to labour relations existing across the Group.
El Tesoro in develop action plans for improvements as necessary.
its most recent negotiation in 2005 had its collective Michilla has also established performance agreements agreement approved by 85% of the workforce, one in each commercial contract with collaborating of the highest of the industry.
These agreements, which are reviewed annually, allow workers from the collaborating Sub-contractors companies to participate indirectly in the results The Groups approach is to consider contractors as achieved by Michilla.
valuable strategic partners with the aim of maximising Law 20123 came into effect in Chile in January 2007. value for both parties and the Groups companies have The legislation is aimed at helping workers ensure developed sound practices for working with contractor their rights.
One of the main features of this legislation companies.
The policy outlining working relationships has been to require certain companies to directly with third parties and sub-contractors is contained in employ a number of workers who were previously a Group policy manual.
Sub-contractors are subject to sub-contracted.
The Group believes that continued the same obligations and responsibilities as employees good management of the relationships with contractor and contractors personnel are encouraged to follow or collaborating companies is crucial to complying with the Groups human resources policies and best the new obligations imposed by the recent legislation.
At El Tesoro, for example, a management model Occupational Health has been established on the following fundamental The very nature of the Groups activities means principles, so as to ensure that El Tesoros own that those involved could suffer health problems.
objectives regarding optimisation of its operations However the Group is committed to providing a in a sustainable manner are met: healthy workplace for its employees and contractors, eliminating occupational illness and managing health tasks where a third party can generate a higher exposures.
In addition Chilean legislation covers most level of value added must be outsourced: aspects of health through the Sanitary Code, the Basic the tasks to be outsourced must clearly and Condition Regulations for Working Areas, Mining explicitly be defined as products or services that Safety Regulation, and specific regulations for food have tangible, measurable and identifiable results: handling, radiation exposure, noise exposure, work accidents and illnesses and the Group seeks to meet the collaborating company is considered to be or exceed these standards.
a strategic partner: and All the principal business units have occupational the collaborating company assumes full health and safety policies, and each operation or responsibility with regard to its business and project is responsible for setting its own objectives its own resources and personnel.
and targets and communicating them to employees, This management model requires full compliance contractors and, where applicable, the local with contractual and legal requirements as well community.
These measures are underpinned by as applicable internal standards.
Key aspects of strong leadership from senior management and this relationship are monitored on a regular basis operational heads.
Management systems certified through an annual auditing process carried out by under OHSAS 18.001 are in place in nearly all of an independent party including commercial, labour, the Groups business units.
Health policies focus operational, technical, social security and tax, health on minimising risk through preventive measures and safety and environmental aspects.
The results and raising awareness of health issues: medical over the last three years have been outstanding with surveillance and voluntary testing: monitoring a 90% compliance rate.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 46 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT El Tesoro promotes a culture which values the health and wellbeing of its workforce.
and reporting procedures including occasional internal programme is now being reviewed and extended and external audits : and the use of technology to to include contractors, and by December 2007 reduce demands on the workforce.
Specific measures 40% of such workers have been included.
include routine examinations for employees and local Other more specific programmes at Los Pelambres community members, advice on exercise and diet and cover mental health, cardiovascular risk factors, dental educational programmes for community groups, and health, family health, food and catering, lodging, on-site clinics.
Guidelines are Los Pelambres has approximately 2,500 employees provided through various methods both written and and contractors working at altitudes as high as 3,500 spoken.
During 2007, the company developed a plan metres down to sea level and consequently, the to control emissions and minimise exposure risk and exposure to high altitude and being isolated from therefore potential illness of the workforce.
A Noise family and social surroundings has the potential to Control Plan is also currently in place in an area of cause health problems.
The company has internal the concentrator plant.
Both plans are the result of policies, regulations, codes of good practice and continued assessment of working conditions as part specific procedures to promote healthy working of Los Pelambres on-going commitment to improve conditions which are outlined in its Strategic the health of its workforce.
Cornerstones, Quality and Risk Policy and Health Los Pelambres has one of the most efficient systems Guidelines, covering all aspects of the production in this regard in the mining industry according to activities in all working conditions.
Los Pelambres has benchmarking studies.
Further information relating to also developed a model aimed at protecting employee Los Pelambres practices in the area of occupational health and implemented it from 2000 to 2006 through heath are contained in a separate publication issued an Integral Health System.
The programmes focus is in 2007, Report on MLPs Integral Health System.
on prevention of risks associated with operations as El Tesoro also actively promotes a culture which values well as workers habits which may result in illness.
the health and wellbeing of its workforce and was the Regular monitoring keeps track of health tendencies first company in Chile to be certified as a Workplace and allows early warning of occupational illnesses that Promotes Health in the Second Level.
enabling timely treatment or prevention.
The Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued During 2007, Michilla concentrated on updating Safety its methodology to improve the management of Safety is a major priority for the Group given occupational health and this will result in a programme the inherent risks in the different operations and to be presented to the local authorities and development projects.
It is committed to providing a implemented in 2008. safe workplace for its employees and contractors and a safety culture based on the following concepts: Health monitoring and management at ADASA is mainly concentrated around its operations including its ensuring that senior management and operational water catchment areas, filtration plants and distribution heads provide leadership and are committed to systems, sewage collection and treatment plants.
Health and safety matters are Occupational health programmes have been directed considered at monthly divisional board meetings: at eliminating physical, chemical and biological risks the use of management systems, with the and establishing preventive measures against majority of the Groups operations certified under influenza, hepatitis, typhoid and sun exposure.
Standards at all operations are ADASA aims to have its existing integral health plan expected to exceed national minimum standards, approved by local health authorities and will evaluate and safety programmes have been approved implementation of OHSAS 18.001 standards in 2008. by the Regional Agency for Mining Safety, FCAB runs an occupational health programme in a public body which establishes minimum conjunction with Mutual fide Seguridad in Antofagasta industry standards: and achieved certification of OHSAS 18.001 in 2007.
As part of its policy of maintaining high levels of safety, regular training is provided to all employees and the company has designed specialised cabs for its contractors to increase awareness and improve diesel-electric locomotives using ergonomic attitudes to safe working practices and contractors diagnostics.
FCAB workers attend regular health and sub-contractors are required to follow specified examinations and a cardiovascular programme to health and safety standards under the terms of their reduce obesity will be introduced in 2008. contracts: and Safety statistics Lost Time All Injury Frequency Rate Injury Frequency Rate 1 2 3 LTIFR AIFR Severity Rate Number of Fatalities 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 4 Chilean mining industry 6.1 5.8 942 822 30 31 Los Pelambres 1.7 2.3 5.3 7.5 72 90 El Tesoro 1.2 2.2 13.1 19.4 67 56 Michilla 2.6 1.3 12.8 12.7 1,609 1,732 1 1 Mining division 1.8 2.0 9.0 11.6 472 516 1 1 Railway 19.2 15.3 44.3 37.5 335 5,465 3 Water 8.6 9.1 28.7 29.9 80 93 Group 5.6 4.9 17.1 17.5 418 1,427 1 4 1 Number of accidents with lost time during the year per million of hours worked.
2 Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million of hours worked.
3 Number of lost days during the year per million of hours worked.
A fatality is calculated as 6,000 lost days.
4 Source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
Comparitive figures for 2006 have been updated using final available data.
Figures for 2007 reflect the period 1 January to 30 June 2007.
Full year figures are not available yet.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 48 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT health and safety issues are monitored across the that safety regulations are strictly observed throughout Group by the corporate risk team through its risk the network.
management procedures, with risk assessments One of ADASAs main priorites in 2007 was to evaluate carried out regularly.
Incidents are recorded and the OHSAS 18.001 management system with a view followed up and safety committees meet frequently to certification in 2009. to review incidents, consult with employees, identify improvements in safety systems and procedures and Environment implement training to prevent recurrence of incidents.
The Group recognises that its businesses can affect the environment both on natural ecosystems and by The Board is committed to a target of zero fatalities its stewardship of natural resources.
Accordingly, the although in 2007 there was one fatality and four Group promotes good environmental performance fatalities in 2006.
Key safety indices for the Group through effective water management, energy are shown in the table on page 48. consumption, improvement of air quality, waste As set out on page 59, various Group companies minimisation and land stewardship.
achieved awards during 2007 for achievements Group environmental standards take account of in safety.
government legislation, local, national and international Los Pelambres has achieved a successful safety regulations and the requests of customers and record by applying its policies at all its operations suppliers.
The Groups business units have developed and regularly updating policies to reflect changing policies to assess and manage their specific situations During 2007, the company has developed a environmental risks throughout all stages of self-care community and to encourage the participation of employees, it rewards them for exceptional performance.
El Tesoro has increased its health and awareness campaigns and publishes a magazine on accident prevention in the home and workplace.
Michilla has concentrated on identifying risks, risk evaluation probability and consequence, application of tolerance criteria, classification and generation and monitoring of controls and their effectiveness.
The FCAB has a strategic health and safety model in place which achieved OHSAS 18.001 certification in 2007.
The incident system is integrated throughout the company using on-line communication and a system has been installed for analysing the causes of derailments.
Both systems investigate the cause of accidents, offer solutions and keep records.
A Safety and Occupational Health System runs safety inspection programmes, courses on self-care and personal safety and is regularly reviewed.
The quality control system adopted by the company is ISO 9000 2000 which covers procedures for operating train and railway safety.
Regular external audits ensure The Choapa Valley near Los Pelambres.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 49 Corporate Social Responsibility continued an operation, including acquisition, exploration, Los Pelambres recycles approximately 80% of the development, operation and closure.
These policies water used and has systems in place in the Choapa take into account economic, technical, environmental basin to control water quality.
Surface water quality is and social factors and the Group seeks support for its monitored in 87 places and underground water quality actions from communities, governments, customers in 45 places.
The concentrate is pumped through a and suppliers.
pipeline from the concentrator plant to the port near Los Vilos where it is fide-watered and the water used The legal basis for environmental regulation in Chile for irrigating a eucalyptus forest nearby.
is set out in Chilean Law 19.300 the Environmental Basis Law.
This provides that, before commencing Water contamination is prevented by various means.
certain projects or activities which could cause The Quillayes and Mauro tailings dams have been built environmental impact, the project must apply for to earthquake safety standards and against extreme permission under the Chilean Environmental Impact weather conditions.
The natural flow of the Cuncumn Evaluation System by submitting an Environmental River has been diverted to ensure the quality and flow Impact Assessment EIA or Environmental Impact of water downstream from the Quillayes tailings dam.
Declaration DIA, depending on the type of project.
A similar system has been developed at El Mauro.
The EIA is an exhaustive assessment process Regular meetings are held with the Chilean Water managed by the National Environmental Commission Authority, the Agricultural and Range Service, the CONAMA.
Under this procedure, all government Irrigation Canal Association, the Health Service and agencies with environmental jurisdiction evaluate other authorities to monitor and audit the operations whether to grant pertinent departmental rulings, on a continuing basis.
licences and permits for a proposed project.
The El Tesoro sources water, which is shared with other authorities also issue an Environmental Qualification mines and with farmers, from deep wells in an aquifer Resolution RCA, indicating what mitigation and near Calama 70 kms from the mine site.
compensatory measures or specific commitments should become mandatory for the project owner.
Michilla has no fresh water sources and was the The Environmental Impact Evaluation System first mining operation in the 1990s to use 100% includes a public participation process intended to sea water for its production.
Water is pumped from ensure that comments by the interested general the coast to the mine 800 metres above sea level, public are considered in the evaluation of projects.
where approximately 50% is treated in a desalination This process took place for the Esperanza project plant providing water for both production and for in 2007, as a part of the on-going EIA.
drinking and recycled industrial water is used to water the gardens around the offices and Water accommodation areas.
The efficient use of water is fundamental for ensuring its availability for Group operations and neighbouring The Esperanza project will also use sea water communities.
Group operations try to reduce fresh pumped via a 145 km pipeline to its concentrator water requirements and maximise recycling.
Some of its operations will need desalinated sea Contamination and water consumption levels water amounting to approximately 10% of the overall are closely monitored.
requirement to be produced by two reverse-osmosis plants.
Another major innovation by the Esperanza Los Pelambres has identified a number of key project will be the use of thickened tailings, the main issues including re-using fresh water, re-circulation of benefits being additional water savings and less industrial water, ensuring the quality and quantity of tailings consigned to its dam.
Esperanza will be the fresh water and availability of water sources for other first mining company in Chile to use this technology.
users principally agricultural and fishing communities and increasing awareness in communities of the ADASA extracts part of its water from the Andes, importance of rational water use.
and supplements this with water from a desalination Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 50 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT Native vegetation at the Choapa Valley.
plant north of the city of Antofagasta.
ADASAs Energy supplies approximately 80% of its water to domestic The Group is committed to conserving energy and customers and small businesses in and around the aims to use and develop efficient energy conservation main population centres.
Water is collected and technology and energy saving practices.
Chile carried to purification plants by a network of pipelines experienced acute shortages of energy in 2007 as totalling 1,140 kms extending in all directions across gas imports from Argentina decreased compared with the desert.
The serious energy supply situation in northern Chile has imposed challenges to all mining ADASA operates in strict compliance with current operations in the region.
standards for water quality and arsenical content and its water purification plants achieve high production During 2007 AMSA studied this issue in the context levels.
Water discarded at various stages of the of its current operations and future plans.
As a result, purification processes is subsequently recovered and it decided to invest in auxiliary equipment aimed at reintroduced by means of decanting tanks, thickeners, providing between 10% to 15% of El Tesoro, Michilla, centrifuging and by pumping water back into the and Esperanzas energy requirements.
In 2007 ADASA formed the An energy efficiency programme at Los Pelambres Rio Loa Vigilance Committee with other stakeholders was designed during 2007 for implementation in 2008. to improve the management of the Rio Loa.
Different energy sources were assessed including the The quality of drinking water at ADASA is monitored by feasibility of using renewable energy sources such the regional health authorities and the Superintendency as wind power.
A hydroelectric generation project was of Sanitary Services and reports on water quality at also studied with the aim of providing Los Pelambres source and at the final purification stage are submitted with 20MW of electricity.
The company has acquired, regularly to comply with current regulations.
In 2007, as an interim solution, a generating plant with a The Antofagasta Association of Industrialists awarded capacity of 4.6MW to ensure energy supply to its the Environmental Management Prize in recognition of operation.
Los Pelambres is an active participant the companys success in reducing the arsenic content in Chiles Energy Efficiency Program.
in drinking water supplied in the II Region.
Since 2003 The Esperanza project has recently signed a it has consistently delivered water to domestic memorandum of understanding with Suez Energy customers with arsenic levels in line with or below to secure its energy requirements for its future those limits stipulated by Chilean regulations and operations.
recommended by the World Health Organisation.
The Chairmans Review describes some of the steps ADASAs efforts have been recognised by Regional taken by the Group to address energy issues in the Health authorities who have awarded the company longer term on pages 14 and 15. certification for reducing arsenic levels.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 51 Corporate Social Responsibility continued been improved by using reagents in water and continuous dust monitoring is carried out at the mine camp and the neighbouring town of Sierra Gorda.
Waste The Groups activities generate mineral and nonmineral waste.
Mineral waste includes mined rock with no economic value, tailings from the concentrator plant and leached residue from the heap-leach operations.
These materials are disposed of in designated waste dumps or tailings dams for which environmental approval has been obtained.
Non-mineral waste includes materials from processes which support mining and processing such as used Osmosis plant at El Tesoro.
The Groups operations have systems to dispose of industrial and hazardous wastes Emissions according to applicable legal requirements.
Regular The Group seeks to reduce air emissions and ensure contact is maintained with local authorities, the Health good air quality in and around its operations and Service and the National Environmental Commission projects.
CONAMA and audits of waste management are conducted on an on-going basis.
At Los Pelambres, several initiatives for dust control are used to counter dust emissions coming primarily Environmental guidelines at Los Pelambres use a from the sands dam of the tailings pond, roads and preventive approach and seek to minimise disturbance the crushed ore stockpiles.
Dust particles of less than of surroundings, pollution, the use of resources, and 10 microns PM10 are monitored on a regular basis the disposal of waste.
An industrial waste management in 12 areas located inside and outside the mines programme categorises hazardous waste in accordance operations.
The roads, mine area and stockpiles are with current standards and directives.
For example, regularly sprinkled with water and additives are used industrial wastes are recycled where possible or sorted on roads to capture dust particles.
Beyond the mine and sold as scrap.
A waste management plan to sell operation areas, samples are analysed to ensure air used lubricant oils to other companies for use as fuel quality for the neighbouring communities including and in the manufacture of explosives was approved Cuncumn, Queln Alto, Tranquila, Camisas and by authorities and implemented.
Current results show that the emission continued its composting facility for processing organic levels are below the limits set by law.
Every effort is waste from the dining halls during 2007 and added a made to minimise dust emissions at the port and the vermicomposting process.
This enabled more waste concentrate stockpile and the conveyor systems are to be treated and reduced the overall amount of subject to negative pressure conditions.
The disposal of heavy duty tyres is also concentrates is done by extendible arms with emission carried out by a system of external recycling.
Close contact is maintained with Michilla has also been working to improve industrial the authorities and audits are conducted on a and hazardous waste management and will present continuing basis.
a plan to the authorities for approval in 2008.
Emissions of dust from mining operations and gases Waste disposal considerations at ADASA arise from from the leaching process at El Tesoro are controlled both the purification process for providing potable by its Environmental Management System which water and the treatment and disposal of sewage.
reduces emissions into the atmosphere.
Measurements confirm that the emission levels Water purification generates waste which could have remain below the PM10 limit.
Dust control has an impact on the environment as it contains arsenic Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 52 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT existing naturally in the Andean region.
This waste generated by its sewage treatment plants in material is disposed of in secure landfill sites which Taltal, Tocopilla and Mejillones.
Steps taken, which comply with regulatory requirements.
The disposal of also improved safety, included the fencing off of waste is subject to a fortnightly monitoring programme boundaries, covering waste and erecting warning for pre-treated sewage and to monthly monitoring of notices at sites.
the desalination plant, to comply with D. S. N90 00 Biodiversity Emission Standard for the Regulation of Pollutants The Group wants to maintain existing ecosystems, Associated with Liquid Industrial Waste Discharge to biodiversity and habitat in all its operations and projects Marine and Inland Waters.
and aims to be a good neighbour and wherever The policy for sewage is centred mainly on sustainable possible ensure continuing access to its properties.
environmental disposal with minimal impact and in The Group accepts the importance of minimising full compliance with current standards.
ADASA has disturbance and all its mining operations have formal participated in a biotechnology project in conjunction closure plans for rehabilitation and restoration of land.
with the University of Antofagasta to investigate ways In dealing with biodiversity issues it takes account of to separate arsenic from the hydroxide so as to re-use the interests and concerns of diverse groups including this in the purification process.
Sewage is first treated farmers and landowners, local communities and to remove solids, heavy material, faecal material, sand non-governmental organisations.
fine solids and oils and fats so it may be discharged safely into the ocean via submarine pipes beyond Los Pelambres has more than 25,000 hectares a coastal protection area established by current of protected areas including the Laguna Conchal regulations.
The solid waste generated from Wetlands, a nature sanctuary, the Monte Aranda these processes is treated with lime prior to property and the Quebrada fide Llau Llau properties being transported to authorised dumps in accordance at Los Vilos and Quebrada fide Talca, Alto Manque, with relevant health authority requirements.
During Alto Piuquenes, Cerro Amerillo and Laguna El Pelado 2007, ADASA concentrated on improving its control properties at Salamanca.
These areas sustain protected programmes and disposal processes for solid waste species of trees and wild life including Quillay Quillaja The Laguna Conchal nature sanctuary in Los Vilos is protected by Los Pelambres.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 53 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Case Study In the desert: a sustainable response The Esperanza project will use sea water for its needs Challenge The availability of water in the driest desert of the world is a formidable engineering challenge.
At present, water from the high Andean plateau of the Antofagasta region is used mainly in agriculture, with little being recycled.
There has been a rapid increase in demand for water for industrial and household use and it is essential that new projects develop alternative sources of water supply as well as optimise the efficient use of water as has been done by most of the large mines.
Description Sea water will be transported 145 kms by pipeline from the coast to Esperanza which is 2,300 metres above sea level.
The pipeline will run parallel to the one carrying copper concentrate to the coast.
Esperanza will also develop a system of thickened tailings which compared to conventional tailings, allows a considerable amount of water to be saved.
Supply All equipment will be adapted to use untreated sea water in both the mine and plant installations.
There will be a need for fresh water for example, for human consumption or for washing the concentrate but this will not exceed 10% and will be obtained using two reverse osmosis plants: one on the coast and the other at the mine.
The water contained in the concentrate will also be recovered and re-used, to avoid discharge into the ocean.
Savings Esperanza is considering a second innovation related to reducing water consumption in its operations by introducing the Thickened Tailings System, which is recommended for desert areas with insufficient water basins.
The Esperanza tailings will consist of 67% solid material in a thick pulp made by increasing the consistency of the tailings and recovering the water in the thickeners, so that the material is no longer separable.
The pulp will then be dried through evaporation, resulting in a dense, seismically stable deposit that cannot be liquefied.
Context The Esperanza project, 30 kms from Sierra Gorda and 180 kms from Antofagasta, is located in a desert area characterised by low or zero precipitation.
Facts and figures The Esperanza project will transport sea water 145 kms to supply the mine site.
The pumping system must be capable of delivering water from the coast to the project at an altitude of 2,300 metres.
Approximately 10% of the transported water will be desalinated for human and industrial use.
Antofagastas copper production will increase by 40% from current levels after production at Esperanza begins at the end of 2010.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 54 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT saponaria, Espino Acacia caven, Huingan Schinus ichthyic fauna and terrestrial fauna monitoring polygamus, Chacay Discaria sp.
and Canelo Drymis programmes carried out in connection with the winterii.
The wild life includes the guanaco Lama construction and pre-operational phases of the guanicoe and several species of birds such as Cuervo Mauro tailings dam: and del Pantano Plegadis chi, and Cisne coscoroba fish monitoring programmes.
Esperanza has detected 19 species of fauna in the Los Pelambres also manages a nature sanctuary in Quebrada del Diablo area around its project which the Laguna Conchali Wetlands at Los Vilos a Ramsar will be conserved and a programme to mitigate the Convention site which is an area near the Punta potential impact of construction of pipelines on local Chungo port with a complex ecosystem with many flora, including a rescue and relocalisation plan for an variations in biological diversity, forest structure, and endangered lizard, the Corredor fide Atacama, will be endangered species.
This area had previously been introduced.
A programme is also being designed to used by the local population for several years in an increase awareness of employees and subcontractors unsustainable way.
Fulfilling its role, Los Pelambres has about biodiversity issues.
undertaken basic research into the wetlands, consulted Since 2005 ADASA has been developing a habitat extensively with local people about their concerns, management plan in Salar del Carmen where ESSAN established a conservation zone with local stakeholders S. A. the previous water distributer, deposited arsenic and built an information centre.
ADASA has undertaken to protect and restore also requested that sanctuary status be granted to the this area and provide an appropriate water supply.
Monte Aranda and Quebrada fide Llau Llau properties at Los Vilos, as well as an area of the cordillera to the Community Relations south of Salamanca Laguna El Pelado.
The Group recognises its operations may have Since 1997, Los Pelambres has allowed livestock a social and environmental impact on neighbouring herders from the Choapa Valley the use of land in communities and regions and takes this into the high southern cordillera in accordance with the consideration in its decision-making.
It recognises companys good neighbour policy.
The grazing land the diversity of its neighbouring communities and available for livestock during the summer benefited tries to minimise, mitigate or compensate for its over 13,000 animals and 40 herders.
impact where possible and to build solid long-term relationships from the start.
Los Pelambres continued its Biodiversity Monitoring Plan during 2007 and three guanaco monitoring The Group is committed to supporting the programmes carried out relating to population census development of local economies through mutual and behavioural and reproduction studies were collaboration by supporting community based projects completed.
In addition, tracking by satellite telemetry in a way that is sustainable and does not create on a permanent basis and radio transmitters on an dependency.
It tries to employ local people and use occasional basis mapped the movement patterns and local businesses where possible.
The Group supports the locations of their habitats.
Other monitoring local communities in many ways, including providing programmes undertaken in recent years included: education and training, fostering enterprises and encouraging small businesses, job creation, the arts, research of the Manque and Piuquenes valleys to health, sport, recreational activites and general issues study subsistence of the guanaco population: facing local communities.
All Group operations and bird monitoring studies in Laguna Conchal and the projects now have management systems or Hualtatas and Piuquenes valleys: programmes to ensure that their efforts in these flora and vegetation monitoring studies at Laguna areas are relevant and effective.
El Pelado, Monte Aranda and Quebrada fide Llau-Llau: Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 55 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Los Pelambres has also developed a community Choapa valley to be informed on safety and relations management system to identify, analyse environmental matters, with a further 360 people and help resolve community related issues.
It tries trained for specific construction trades.
The initiative to assess its impact on the community and its encouraged contractor companies to employ local contribution to development of the region through labour which provided approximately 50% of the specific indicators.
Recent initiatives of Los Pelambres workforce for the El Mauro project during include the support for: construction between 2005 and 2007: the Andrnico Luksic Abaroa Centre for Copper the Museum of Contemporary Art MAC in Santiago Mining and Sustainable Development, which is during 2006-2007 where Los Pelambres is the located near the Punta Chungo port and the Laguna principal sponsor.
It also implemented a visiting Conchali Wetland.
Since its inauguration in October programme to the museum, for over 400 students 2006, the centre has had over 45,000 visitors: and teachers from schools from the areas of Los Vilos, Salamanca, Illapel and Canela: teachers in the Choapa valley by providing a new educational environmental programme, fide Cordillera funding a cultural centre in Los Vilos to promote a Mar, which supported science at 15 elementary art and culture through art exhibitions, ceramic schools started in October 2007.
An information workshops and by providing access to local gardens: technology school was also set up allowing workers Los Pelambres donated US$4 million to the to participate as volunteers to teach technology engineering faculty of the Pontificia Universidad skills to members of the neighbouring village of Catlica fide Chile for the construction of a new Cuncumn: centre for mining research and postgraduate the introduction of a training programme between study, an engineering museum and laboratory 2004 and 2005 enabling 1,200 people from the facilities: and School children who have participated in a road safety programme funded by the Minera Los Pelambres Foundation.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 56 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT The Together We Can Grow More programmes which target environmental education, certification of schools road and highway safety and the development of local suppliers.
In addition to the activities supported by Los Pelambres, the Minera Los Pelambres Foundation was created in 2003 to formalise the interaction and contribution of Los Pelambres to the welfare and development communities located in the Choapa Valley.
The Foundation is an independent entity which develops programmes to encourage sustainable development in the region over a long-term period.
The 2003-2007 Development Plan provided a total investment of US$5 million.
Its targets are the optimisation of water usage, local production, education, agriculture and irrigation.
Other programmes support local fishing communities by awarding scholarships and also help in developing teaching methods for schools.
The Foundation also An agricultural project established by Minera Los Pelambres encourages the development of local businesses.
Specific projects funded by the Foundation over the projects in art and culture the Foundation has years include: supported the activities of the Museum of projects relating to irrigation in 2005 a rotational Contemporary Art in Santiago.
fund was set up for the use of farmers for irrigation: During 2007, the Foundation continued to fund and projects in the agricultural sector in partnership with support local farmers, fishing communities, local the Government: businesses and the development of apiculture.
Several educational programmes were supported particularly projects in the fishing industry a work programme in rural schools and scholarships were awarded to the at Los Vilos has assisted 300 fishermen: children of local fishermen.
Training courses included projects to fund small businesses over two accountancy, e-learning, management and beekeeping.
years, 25 projects tailored for small business El Tesoro has also supported community activities were supported through financial assistance in education, employment creation, entrepreneurship, and managerial training: health and sports.
During 2007, it supported the projects in agriculture the Foundation has Caracoles school at Sierra Gorda, and has provided established a 100 hectare agriculture project in four scholarships for study at the Technological Mining Quebrada Manque in the Salamanca municipality Centre at the Arturo Prat University in Calama.
In to produce table grapes for export: partnership with two other mines, Spence and Quadra projects in education during 2006, the Foundation Mining, and the Municipality of Sierra Gorda, El Tesoro collaborated in the implementation of a free Wi-Fi helped develop an initiative called Good Neighbours system for the inhabitants of Salamanca to support Team to design and develop projects in local education and local development making Salamanca communities.
This included conducted tours for one of the first towns in Latin America to have free community residents, sporting events and wireless access: and environmental campaigns for community hygiene.
El Tesoro also supported Santiagos Municipal Theatre diffusion plan which aims to widen its audience Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 57 Corporate Social Responsibility continued and their families, local residents, representatives of professional organisations and regional authorities.
In 2004 the FCAB started programmes and projects for computer skills and basic literacy for its employees and their families and local communities and in August 2005 it started the Cyber Train project which was organised and funded by the Andrnico Luksic Abaroa Foundation.
The joint project has contributed to the development and culture of vulnerable areas of the Antofagasta community, and was designed to improve opportunities for disadvantaged people.
The Cyber The Minera Los Pelambres Foundation supports agricultural Train itself is made up of passenger coaches dating development in the Choapa Valley.
from the 1900s which have been modified and equipped with networked computers and broadband to nationwide by sponsoring performances in one provide a virtual library and cultural centre.
Technical of Antofagastas theatres together with AMSA, support and supervisory help is provided and being Esperanza and Michilla.
mobile, the Train reaches out to the wider community.
It has three modules: Michilla works closely with the communities of Mejillones and Caleta Michilla, a small community electronic literacy basic training in surfing the dependent on fishing.
During 2007, the company internet, using email, chat rooms and word supported Caleta Michilla by providing drinking water, processors: electricity, and running an emergency service for reading development designed to motivate electronic households.
Activities developed in 2007 included and traditional reading and use of library facilities: and guided visits to its operations and a workshop holding cultural development which encourages people to discussions on alcohol and drug abuse.
The company surf the net and visit virtual museums and galleries.
has continued to strengthen its relationship with other local stakeholders by participating in exhibitions and The FCAB was the first company to be awarded the events locally.
Digital Literacy Hallmark prize awarded by the Chilean National Training and Employment Service SENCE in Following a serious earthquake in northern Chile in the Antofagasta region.
During 2006, the Cyber Train November 2007, Michilla, El Tesoro and Esperanza exceeded its targets as children and adults took were all involved in helping the people and towns advantage of its computer and educational services.
affected by providing food, water and heavy duty These services were further developed in 2007 equipment.
to reach a wider audience in neighbouring towns.
Although ADASAs prime objective is to provide good The FCAB also equipped the Secondary School in quality water to its customers it fully recognises its Mejillones with computers and awarded student role in the supply and value chains in the area.
In this grants for further education at universities.
regard, ADASA has established a supportive network The FCABs sponsorship of cultural and artistic activity with 16 educational bodies, health and municipal includes a book fair and cinema festival as well as authorities and the National Environment Commission concerts and plays.
Sporting activities have also been CONAMA.
The network has developed a programme organised for the local community and for children.
called Culture for Life in the Desert, designed to During 2007, the FCAB opened the doors of its keep the local communities informed on health issues Heritage Museum to the local community which and environment awareness.
Public meetings and has been widely appreciated.
seminars are held regularly, attended by employees Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 58 CSR REPORT CSR REPORT identified as a leader and an example in the area of Awards and Recognition corporate social responsibility.
The Prize recognised During the year, many of the Groups operations the companys contribution to improving the quality received awards and or recognitions for their of life and employment conditions in the IV Region.
contributions to good management, health, safety and the environment at both regional and national It also received the National Safety Council and level.
These included: Excellence in Risk Prevention Awards from the National Safety Council of Chile.
AMSA AMSAs Vice President of Operations, Sr. Jorge El Tesoro Gmez, was awarded the Distinguished Professional El Tesoro received the CORESEMIN Comit Prize by the Institute of Mining Engineers of Chile.
Regional fide Seguridad Minera Award 2007 for its In 2007, AMSA received The Award of Honour and safety performance and received The Excellence in other awards for Effective Action, Merit, Business Risk Prevention and National Safety Council Awards Vision and Effective Executive from the Chilean for its administrative and support areas.
The award recognised the company was also awarded The Effort in Risk companys efficiency and active participation in Prevention Prize for its subcontractor companies controlling risks and the prevention of accidents who achieved a 25% reduction in injury rates.
and illness in the workplace.
FCAB Los Pelambres FCAB received the SCM El Abra Prize for outstanding Los Pelambres received an award for the fifth time management in safety and occupational health in the from the Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera workplace in respect of the previous year.
Sernageomin, for Mining Safety since the beginning of its operations.
ADASA ADASA gained recognition from the National Safety The Palladium Group nominated Los Pelambres to Council and Mutual fide Seguridad of Antofagasta the Balanced Scorecard Hall Of Fame For Executing with awards for safety.
Strategy for achieving outstanding performance results using the Balanced Scorecard BSC.
The Antofagasta Association of Industrialists awarded the Environmental Management Award Los Pelambres was awarded the Alberto Hurtado in recognition of the companys achievement in Cruchaga Prize by the Press Club.
The award is reducing the arsenic content in drinking water given to individuals and institutions in recognition of in the II Region.
their service to the community.
Los Pelambres was ADASA supplies drinking water with an arsenic content of less than 0.01 mg per litre, within guidelines set by the World Health Organisation and well within the local health authoritys limit of 0.03 mg per litre.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 59
