BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY At Morgan Crucible, Corporate The Board considers that these receipt of gifts.
Employees are required Responsibility is integral to our business, procedures provide a reasonable to obey all relevant laws.
These policies underpinning each of our five key level of assurance that the Groups apply, so far as is appropriate, to our strategic priorities.
Here we report on ESG disclosures are free from material business partners, including contractors, our policies and performance in respect misstatement whether caused by agents, joint ventures and suppliers.
The of ethics and ethical trading, our people, fraud or other irregularity or error.
Company also undertakes to ensure the environment, health and safety, that no employee shall suffer Core values community relations and suppliers discrimination as a result of refusing to and customers.
In addition our 2007 The Board of Morgan Crucible is pay or receive a bribe.
EHS Report, planned for publication committed to ensuring that the Morgan Crucibles global antion our website in April 2008, will provide Companys policies relating to business competitive behaviour compliance a more comprehensive review of integrity are upheld.
Morgan Crucibles programme is ongoing with training our environmental and health and approach to Corporate Responsibility for appropriate employees across safety performance.
is encapsulated in our Core Values the Group.
The programme includes Statement which was first published Management independent audits and the audit in 2004 and is regularly reviewed and reports are considered by the Executive The Board is accountable for corporate updated.
Our Core Values Statement Committee and the Board.
provides the framework for our policies, The Chief Executive Officer, Mark programmes and procedures as we Our people Robertshaw, is the executive in charge strive to achieve our strategic priorities The success of our organisation in a of all corporate responsibility matters through continuous improvement in our highly competitive market is reliant on including internal and external environmental, social and governance the breadth and depth of the capability stakeholders.
He is supported by performance.
The statement is available of our employees.
One of the five senior management, including the on our website and applies to all strategic priorities for Morgan Crucible Chief Financial Officer who is responsible Morgan Crucible businesses and is Finding, keeping and developing for environmental, health and safety employees worldwide.
the right people and in 2007 our focus matters, and by the Director of Human Business ethics has been on talent management Resources in respect of employee through the development of a talent matters and human rights.
In addition, Our Ethics Policy provides employees review process initiated at CEO level the Chief Executive of each of our with guidance for both their everyday and cascaded down the organisation.
Divisions has specific responsibility for activities and other circumstances.
Our aim is to leverage the talent of our customers and suppliers and for the The policy is translated into appropriate employees globally to deliver our short implementation of our EHS and other languages for our sites worldwide.
and longterm business plans while policies and procedures.
The Morgan Crucible Ethics and providing them with a challenging and Verification Compliance Helpline enables exciting place to work and develop.
employees and other stakeholders Our Company Secretary and Director Policy and management who are aware of, or suspect, of Operational Risk work with external misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, Our policy is to provide equal independent consultants to review abuse of Company assets or violations opportunities for employees in and where appropriate verify our of our Ethics Policy to report these recruitment, career development, environmental, social and governance confidentially without fear of retribution promotion and reward, including for ESG disclosures.
This process covers should they feel they cannot use a those with disabilities.
As noted below, the environmental, health and safety local channel.
The helpline is promoted we support the UN guidance on human and human resources related nonto employees globally, in particular rights, minimum working age, forced financial key performance indicators through coverage in the global labour and freedom of association.
employee magazine which is available Should existing employees become All Morgan Crucible businesses are in eight languages.
disabled, our policy is to provide regularly reviewed under the Groups continuing employment and training, It is planned to update and further Compliance Audit Programme and wherever practicable.
communicate our Ethics Policy and those sites and businesses certified to the helpline to employees and other The Director of Human Resources is ISO9001, ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and stakeholders in the coming year.
responsible for Group human resources other standards have regular external issues.
She is a member of the Executive audits.
The Group also uses external Bribery and corruption Committee and reports to the Chief professional advisers in relation Our Core Values Statement and Ethics Executive Officer.
to specific health, safety and Policy prohibit the giving or receiving environmental matters as required.
of bribes and restricts the giving and 34 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DRIVING SUPERWOOLS DEVELOPMENT Thermal Ceramics Project Manager and materials scientist, Ccile Ollagnier, is one of the key drivers behind the successful development of the biosoluble, high temperature insulation wool, Superwool SW607HT.
The development of this revolutionary product can be credited to the members of several teams including R&D, production and sales.
Ccile led the development project having begun her relationship with the product in 2001 with smaller projects related to customer applications of SW607.
The project grew and Ccile widened her focus into the research and development of SW607HT and its applications.
Thanks to the work of Ccile and her teams, SW607HT is now the high temperature, low biopersistent, insulation fibre market leader.
Key performance indicators Communications take place through a number of channels including team On average during the year, Morgan briefings and presentations, and through Crucible employed 9,607 people, the twice yearly 360 magazine.
33% of employees 2007 61% 23% 16% available in eight languages and are in Europe, 34% in the Americas, 30% 2005 49% 27% 24% contains company, divisional, site in Asia Pacific and 3% in other countries.
2003 28% 29% 43% During the year we extended In 2007, the 11th annual meeting of the our processes for gathering and Morgan Crucible European Employee benchmarking human resources Forum took place with representatives data to cover some 73% of our global from seven countries.
Of these employees, 86% to providing a forum where employees were permanent and 78% were male.
can meet and discuss with our business 12% 2007 64% 24% The average time lost due to sickness leaders the future of the business.
2005 53% 32% 15% and ill health including health and 2004 46% 29% 17% 8% safety related lost time was 2.8% of We monitor the effectiveness of our working time.
Average employment employee-related communications and 2003 46% 33% 21% tenure was approximately 7.3 years.
policies through our employee survey.
As this is the first year we have collected For example, the 2007 employee survey this data centrally there are no prior shows that 58% of employees say that year comparisons.
overall company communication to employees is good, up from 37% in 2003.
We plan to further extend our HR data 2007 63% 21% 16% Responses in relation to health and collection processes during 2008.
2005 55% 27% 18% safety and environmental matters are Training and development also positive.
2004 45% 25% 17% 13% 2003 36% 44% 20% We encourage our employees Employee surveys to achieve their full potential and to We have conducted four global actively participate in their development.
Some We invest in our people at all levels and 64% of employees participated in the on a global basis.
We aim to align the 2007 survey which was conducted in skills required by the business and those 2007 77% 16% 7% nine languages.
The results are fed back that will help our employees develop to employees on a Group, Divisional 2005 70% 23% 7% on a professional and personal level and site basis and are used by the 2004 64% 19% 9% 8% through the use of our annual executive teams to highlight areas performance review process and Question not included in 2003 survey.
The results of the 2007 survey show Providing group wide development improvements in almost all areas and programmes for a global organisation show increasing levels of engagement is a challenge but with the help of and commitment with employees technology we have developed increasingly feeling that they are a an e-learning tool that will create a part of the Group as a whole, with number of learning scenarios.
Our initial strong local and site loyalty.
57% of development programme focused on respondents globally were aware Learning Business English as a key of our five strategic priorities.
Our aim is to broaden the portfolio of programmes The 2007 surveys highlighted four areas as we grow our employees awareness for additional focus.
These include: of learning new skills using different skills development enabling people methods.
to progress their careers and make a positive impact on their work: Employee engagement communication creating a Communicating with our employees productive, two-way dialogue between and enabling them to connect with management and staff on all levels: one another across businesses and recognition the acknowledgement skill sets is an important part of Morgan and reward of good work: and Crucibles strategy to find, keep and environmental issues recognising develop the right people.
that protecting the environment is as important to our people as it is to the Group as a whole.
Plans are being put in place to address these areas at a local and global level.
36 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Human rights EHS policy and a combination of internal and external resources in the Americas.
All our businesses are required to comply The key features of our EHS policy are to: We achieved our target of auditing with local laws and with Group policies.
 Comply with EHS legislation, regulations 24 sites during 2007.
Our target for 2008 We support the Universal Declaration of and other applicable requirements.
is to audit a further 31 sites, including the Human Rights and the ILO Declaration 9 sites to be acquired from Carpenter on Fundamental Principles and Rights  Minimise the environmental impact of Technology Corporation, contingent at Work concerning the fundamental historic, current and future operations.
on completion of the transaction.
rights including freedom of association  Conduct operations in such a manner and the effective recognition of the right Health and safety performance as to avoid unacceptable risk to to collective bargaining: the elimination human health and safety.
Health and safety performance is of all forms of forced or compulsory monitored Group-wide on a monthly labour: the effective abolition of  Supply products that will not present basis.
The Executive Committee receives child labour: and the elimination of an unacceptable risk to human health regular performance reports and the discrimination in respect of employment and safety when used in compliance Board reviews health and safety matters and occupation.
with product safety communications at least annually and more frequently and common safety practices.
The Director of Human Resources reports when necessary.
to the Chief Executive Officer and is  Establish measurement tools Our health and safety performance responsible for human rights issues, for, and continuously monitor data includes lost working time incidents with the Chief Executive of each EHS performance.
arising from work-related injuries and Division having responsibility for  Set objectives for the continuous ill-health.
The majority of our sales and policy implementation with in their improvement of EHS matters.
technical ofces are now included respective divisions.
and the 2007 data covers 99% of all  Train our people in relevant Our internal audit procedures include employees, up from 96% in 2006.
the monitoring of compliance with our Our long-term objective is to have human rights policies in countries of  Encourage our business partners no accidents and through proactive concern and human rights are included to adopt this same accountability.
preventative programmes and training in our risk assessment procedures.
EHS management and organisation our performance improved during the Should significant risks or nonyear.
Lost time accident frequencies compliance be identified they are The management of our EHS major and minor were down 20%, addressed through specific training performance is aligned with the exceeding our 10% reduction target guidance to ensure that local practice operation of our day-to-day business.
Lost time as a percentage of and procedures are compliant.
The Chief Executive Officer has total time worked was up 3%, due to In the coming year we plan to overall accountability for corporate a 28% reported increase in the average communicate further our human rights responsibility, supported by the Chief time lost per lost time accident, behind related policies to employees and to Financial Officer who has specific our targeted 10% reduction.
This reported provide further training in this regard.
responsibility for EHS policy and increase was due to improved reporting We will also provide our management performance.
Operational responsibility of lost time to include long-term cases team with further guidance on the is delegated to the Chief Executive of which were not consistently included implementation of these policies.
In practice all employees in the 2006 data.
Our Ethics and Compliance Helpline are responsible for ensuring that our 2007 2006 Increase enables employees who are aware EHS policies are implemented and for decrease of or suspect issues under our human identifying additional areas and Major incidents per 0.39 0.48 18 % rights related policies to report these.
100,000 hours Minor incidents per 0.17 0.21 23 % There were no reported breaches of our Environmental management systems 100,000 hours human rights related policies in 2007. are in place at 61 major sites worldwide, Lost working time 0.079% 0.077% 3% representing some 84% of production Environmental, health and safety capacity.
This includes 27 sites or 48% of Lost time per lost 17.6 13.8 28% time accident Our EHS programmes underpin our capacity which is certified to ISO14001.
Major work related injuries resulting in four strategic priorities and our Core Values We have not yet achieved our target to or more days lost time.
Statement commits us to environmental double the number of certified sites from Minor work related injuries resulting in one, sustainability in our product development 16 in 2005, but with ten new certifications two or three days lost time.
programmes and to strive to minimise planned for 2008 this should be lost time is total working time lost due to a work related the impact of our operations on the achieved in the coming year.
This is in accident or ill-health not including the day on which the accident occured.
We are also committed to addition to the rolling programme of ensuring that the working environment recertifications.
Systems are in place is safe and that all individuals take for managing health and safety across responsibility for achieving this.
all our operations worldwide, with a number of sites certified or working to This report includes a summary of our OSHA18001 where this is appropriate.
EHS performance and programmes and further detail will be included A key element of our EHS management in our 2007 EHS Report to be published processes is the EHS Compliance on our website in April 2008.
This programme Report will also include case studies provides assurance and helps ensure to help demonstrate our approach to compliance with local regulations, and enhancing the sustainability of good management practice, using our business.
external auditors in Europe and Asia CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 37 2007 2006 Increase Our objectives for 2008 are to continue FIRST-CLASS decrease to make progress towards our long-term As part of our strategic priority of finding, Tonnes CO2 per m 611 627 2.5 % goal of zero accidents and to extend keeping and developing the right people, we revenue sponsor the Best Materials Student category coverage to 100% of our employees.
in the UKs most important undergraduate % electricity from 1.9% 2.6% 70 bps We will increase our focus on those sites science and engineering awards: The Science, renewable sources with below average performance and Engineering & Technology Student of the Tonnes waste per m 110 112 1 % on reductions in the average time lost Year Awards SET.
This year it was won by revenue first-class honours student, Tom Connolly, per lost time accident.
This will involve from the University of Surrey.
In addition to Recycled % of 29% 30% 100 bps cross disciplinary teams including HR his prize, which was presented by our CEO, total waste and general management, as well Mark Robersthaw, Tom was invited to tour m3 water used per m 4,299 5,301 19 % as EHS specialists.
our UK sites and meet each Divisions Chief revenue Technology Officer.
Environmental performance CO2 equivalent from all energy sources, including country specic electricity.
Environmental performance is monitored constant currency basis, includes intercompany sales.
The Our two year targets for energy use, Executive Committee receives regular emissions, waste and water consumption performance reports and the Board remain in place.
During 2008 we will reviews environmental matters annually.
reassess these with a view to targeting Wherever possible we work to minimise further reductions in our environmental the impact of our business on the impact from 2009 onwards.
environment and, as highlighted in Community the Review of Operations, to maximise the positive environmental benefit of Our practice is to engage with local our products.
communities in relation to matters of mutual interest and concern.
At a local During 2007 we extended our level, where Morgan Crucible often has environmental reporting to cover 100% of long-established roots and is frequently our production sites and the majority of a major employer, this helps to foster our sales and technical ofces.
The data mutual understanding and credibility.
in this report covers the 98% of production In addition, Morgan Crucible engages site sales for which comparative data for with local and national Governments 2006 is available.
and agencies, both directly, and through In 2007 our CO2 emissions intensity due professional bodies.
Such engagement to energy use improved by 2.5%, on is in part covered by our Ethics Policy trajectory to achieve our target of a 5% and donations to political parties or improvement by the end of 2008.
CO2 emissions due to energy use were In addition to the time given to some 428,000 tonnes.
The proportion of community projects and for charitable electricity from renewable sources fell purposes by Morgan Crucible during the year and is now behind the employees around the world, in 2007 trajectory needed to achieve 4% by the we also made charitable donations end of 2008.
This is largely due to pricing of 193,598 2006: 146,240. in the competitive market for renewable electricity.
Our waste intensity was down, Group activities but by less than the amount needed During 2007, Morgan Crucible supported to be on track for our target of a 5% a number of charitable and community reduction by the end of 2008.
This is initiatives, including medical research, largely due to the ongoing improvement the care of physically or mentally in waste management reporting.
handicapped people and the education Similarly, the proportion of total waste and development of young people.
which is recycled fell during the year.
For example: Our water intensity was down 19% with improved measurement and a variety  In South Africa, where some 30% of reduction programmes driving this of adults are functionally illiterate, ahead of the targeted 10% reduction our Thermal Ceramics business runs by the end of 2008. a voluntary literacy and life skills programme for shop floor employees.
Further details of our environmental It provides the training and the facilities performance will be included in and includes an hour of training in our EHS report planned for publication the working week.
Participants match in April 2008. this time commitment and start with reading and writing, before moving on to computer, budgeting and other life skills.
38 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
