36 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Working together to create change At National Express Group corporate Operating and The climate change debate has moved responsibility is a fundamental part of on apace in 2007.
Our focus has been Financial Review our business its about what we do on communicating the large net and how we do it.
We know that public environmental savings to be made from Corporate transport has a central role to play customers using our services instead of in improving the quality of peoples Responsibility car and plane.
We launched an online lives.
Our challenge is to effectively carbon calculator to highlight the carbon communicate the contribution that our savings made by individual journeys and services can make to society, in both will continue to develop initiatives that social and environmental terms.
We report more widely on our corporate We continued our partnership in the responsibility initiatives in our Corporate Climate Groups Were in This Together Responsibility report.
In 2007 we were Campaign, which helps consumers find once again included in the Dow Jones ways to reduce their carbon footprint.
Sustainability and the FTSE4Good As part of this, in summer 2007, we indices.
And in August 2007 we were ran competitions to win tickets to Live listed in The Observer newspaper as Earth, when our customers told us their one of the 20 best firms in the FTSE 350 pledge to reduce their carbon footprint.
index, assessed on a range of social, As official transport providers to environmental and corporate Wembley Stadium we provide services governance criteria.
from 57 destinations around the UK to A key part of our communities each match, significantly reducing the Our business and our brands are an numbers of car journeys to the stadium.
integral part of the fabric of everyday In addition we are a key partner in the life.
Connecting with our communities Carbonfootyprint.
com campaign is key and each part of our business is providing free coach travel to all FA empowered to do this on a local level.
Cup matches from the Third Round onwards, with the aim of reducing Much of our community support comes the environmental impact of in the shape of initiatives close to the the competition.
hearts of our people and our customers.
In North America we continue our Continuous improvement support of the Special Olympics with We are also working to reduce our own employees across the division energy and carbon emissions where we volunteering for events across California, can.
In our bus business we started a Texas and Illinois.
In Spain we signed a trial of hybrid buses at Travel London 400,000 partnership with UNICEF to operating on the 129 route from the support the promotion of breastfeeding Cutty Sark to North Greenwich whilst in in Morocco, a country in which Alsa is Leon, North Central Spain we launched a transport provider.
Alsa is also the the countrys first electric minibus.
sponsor of the fifth Solidarity and At National Express East Anglia, through Immigration Mundialito Little World Cup train modifications and the launch of which brings together over 700 people train simulators, which promote energyfrom 25 countries with the aim of efficient driving, we have seen significant promoting solidarity through sport.
And the entire c2c In the UK we became sponsors of fleet of trains now uses regenerative The Football Association, providing braking which has reduced energy unique opportunities for our people use by around 20%.
Some of our to engage with the games and players most ambitious plans for energy that are such a part of the landscape reduction come as part of the new of life in the UK.
National Express East Coast franchise.
Over the length of the franchise we plan a 28% reduction in CO2 per passenger kilometre.
37 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Weve continued to make exceed the safety performance improvements at our sites with National standards.
In our UK train operations, Express West Midlands garages the rate of signals passed at danger reducing their energy use by around SPADs has improved by 16%, and 40% and train depots by around 25% currently stands at its lowest level ever.
We also plan to Our business, our people create a number of green initiatives and The safety and development of our invest in onsite renewable energy.
As a people remains a fundamental part complement to this in our UK business of our success as a business and we switched to green tariff electricity we ensure that we provide support so all our site and depot energy in to them at every level.
We continued the UK now comes from renewable our First Level Leaders programme sources.
The contract also provides which provides managers with the electricity for the Midland Metro in the necessary training to help them develop West Midlands, resulting in the line their potential.
Engagement with our becoming the first light rail system in the people is key and we ensure that UK to be effectively emissions free.
our communication with each employee Keeping safety front of mind is central to everything we do.
Our Safety is at the core of our business and Employee Survey is crucial in gathering we are focused on ensuring that our their thoughts and views and we safety record improves across our ensure that these are not only listened operations.
2007 saw two accidents, to, but acted on.
one involving the tragic loss of three We will continue to explore ideas lives.
Our thoughts remain with those to tackle the issues facing our business affected by these incidents.
Only by listening to our commited to our policy of continuous people, our customers and stakeholders improvement in safety.
In Spain we have can we truly ensure we are making invested in driver training with a resulting travel simpler.
Improvements were also recorded in North America, due in part to the second year of the divisions safety awards which focus on keeping safety at the forefront of every drivers mind and rewarding drivers who Green electricity Safety first Encouraging change Switching our UK business to a green tariff When it comes to safety, driver training is key.
Educating people about the environmental electricity means all our site and depot energy We continue to invest in the technology benefits of using public transport is one now comes from renewable sources.
It also and training programmes to keep our people of our primary roles in reducing the effects means that Midland Metro, the light rail system in and passengers protected.
the West Midlands, is effectively emissions free.
