Directors Report and Business Review E Em mp pllo oy ye ee e s sh ha ar re e o ow wn ne er rs sh hiip p More than 10,000 NEXT employees held options over a total of 9.2 million shares in NEXT at January 2007.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT has purchased shares in the market and issues them to employees when options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 6.4 million shares.
The Board believe this has minimised the true cost of share options and the dilution of shareholders interests that would otherwise occur from the issue of new shares.
P Pe en ns siio on n p pr ro ov viis siio on n The NEXT Pension Scheme provides a valuable pension benefit to its participating employees, details of which are set out on pages 27 and 28 of the Remuneration Report and in Note 23 to the financial statements.
As at 27 January 2007, there were 2,321 active members in the defined benefit section and 2,063 members in the defined contribution section.
S SO OC CIIA AL L & & E EN NV VIIR RO ON NM ME EN NT TA AL L M MA AT TT TE ER RS S NEXT continues to consolidate and integrate Corporate Responsibility CR commitments throughout the Group.
A third party provides independent assurance on the content of the 2007 CR report, which will be published on the Companys website later this year.
NEXTs commitment to CR matters has also been recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
NEXT has a CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, co-ordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement its strategy.
The objective of the forum is to review key business drivers and associated risks in order to embed CR considerations within the Groups business operations.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
S Su up pp plliie er rs s NEXT has identified its supply chain as a key area of consideration for CR activities and its supplier Code of Practice remains at the heart of the Groups operations.
The code is a set of ethical trading standards which form an integral part of NEXTs business and stipulates the minimum standards for its suppliers in relation to workers rights and conditions of work, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
During the year the Code of Practice team has been expanded both in the UK and overseas and a Code of Practice conference was held to educate suppliers on its requirements.
Internal training is also provided to improve identification of potential Code of Practice risks.
NEXT works in partnership with organisations in the UK and overseas to establish how ethical standards can be applied, implemented and monitored both in factories and with home-workers.
NEXTs policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the NEXT Group at 27 January 2007 were 24 days 2006: 25 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 27 January 2007 or 28 January 2006.
C Cu us st to om me er rs s NEXT aims to provide a high quality service to all its customers and products that are safe and fit for purpose.
The Group endeavours to ensure accessibility to its different shopping channels for all customers, including those with disabilities or impairments.
In addition to its store and call centre employees, NEXT has over 100 people working in its Customer Service departments actively engaged in dealing promptly and efficiently with customer issues and enquiries.
There is a continuous process to facilitate communication between different parts of its operations in responding to customers and to ensure appropriate escalation of enquiries and disputes.
In monitoring compliance with its supplier Code of Practice and operation of detailed quality control procedures, NEXT aims to ensure its products comply with all relevant laws and its own safety and performance standards.
