Directors Report and Business Review Growth of the NEXT Directory business depends upon the recruitment and retention of its customer base and increasing the average spend per customer.
NEXT will continue to recruit new customers where they satisfy its credit score requirements.
However, there can be no assurance that new customers will result in higher sales per customer or lower incidence of bad debts, compared with the existing customer base.
W Wa ar re eh ho ou us siin ng g & & d diis st tr riib bu ut tiio on n NEXT regularly reviews its warehouses and the related logistics operations that support its businesses.
Risks include business interruption due to physical property damage, access, breakdowns in warehouse systems, capacity shortages, inefficient processes and delivery service failures.
IIT T s sy ys st te em ms s & & b bu us siin ne es ss s c co on nt tiin nu uiit ty y NEXT is dependent upon the continued availability and integrity of its computer systems.
Each of its businesses must record and process a substantial volume of data and conduct inventory management accurately and quickly.
The Group expects that its systems will require continuous enhancements and ongoing investment to prevent obsolescence and maintain responsiveness to business needs.
C Ca allll c ce en nt tr re e c ca ap pa ac ciit ty y & & s se er rv viic ce e lle ev five ells s NEXT is dependent on the efficient operation of its call centres to receive and respond to customer orders and enquiries in its home shopping and customer service management businesses.
Insufficient manpower and interruption in the availability of telephony systems to meet customer service requirements are the principal risks.
T Tr re ea as su ur ry y & & r riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t The main financial risks of NEXT relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, default by counter-parties to financial transactions credit risk, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
In addition, NEXTs business expansion and share buyback strategy may necessitate the raising of additional finance, which would in turn increase interest costs and could give rise to fluctuations in profit.
Higher debt levels would also result in an increase in the proportion of cash flow dedicated to debt service and potentially increase its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks.
The Groups treasury policy allows the use of derivative instruments provided they are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 31 to the financial statements.
E EM MP PL LO OY YE EE ES S People are key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
NEXT has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working environment.
E Eq qu ua all o op pp po or rt tu un niit tiie es s NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
Full consideration is given to application for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
T Tr ra aiin niin ng g a an nd d d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and development of staff and in training and education programmes which contribute to the internal promotion prospects of employees.
E Em mp pllo oy ye ee e c co om mm mu un niic ca at tiio on n NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial and other information about the business and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
NEXT has an employee forum made up of a network of elected representatives from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a year with senior managers and directors.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
