At Northern Foods we are committed to making great tasting food in a responsible way Special sherpascopic platforms help employees work safely at height 26 Corporate responsibility report Northern Foods plc Corporate responsibility report Accordingly, in reporting on CR activity during Overall we have made good progress in In 2006 07 Northern Foods made 2006 07, we have described our key CR this area, as set out below.
Our previously good progress with its corporate initiatives, provided commentary on some of published targets for energy, water and waste responsibility CR agenda.
the external drivers affecting our business and, reduction are being reviewed in light of the where possible, we have provided updates on business disposal programme completed in We are committed to making great food in a targets published at the start of the financial January 2007 and Food Industry Sustainability responsible way and our CR programme is built year.
Some targets are under review reflecting Strategy FISS targets suggested in 2006. around three core principles: that all activities the new shape of Northern Foods following We await the publication by the Department should be aligned with our business strategy: the disposal programme and this is indicated, for Environment Food and Rural Affairs Defra that these activities form part of the companys where appropriate, in the report.
of the FISS Champions Groups work in approach to managing risk and reputation: and determining the feasibility of these targets, that we comply with legislation and good the measures necessary for making progress Delivering a trusted supply chain governance standards.
and the means of monitoring success.
Northern Foods manages Northern Foods has chaired the FISS To fulfil that agenda, CR initiatives are managed a number of initiatives under Champions Group on waste and has positively under three headlines: contributed to the sustainability agenda.
the trusted supply chain strand of its responsibility agenda.
Delivering a trusted supply chain Energy Building a good and safe place to work These relate firstly to our impact Northern Foods has continued to meet its Promoting healthy balanced lifestyles.
on the environment in the key areas obligations under the UK Climate Change Levy Agreement.
In meeting our third bi-annual of energy, water and waste, and In 2006 07, a year in which the food industry milestone target in December 2006 we have secondly to our activities around has been under major scrutiny, this framework been able to drive a steady reduction in has stood us in good stead.
It has helped us responsible sourcing.
energy consumption since the 1999 base year.
develop and communicate our response to This reduction has been achieved through significant issues such as the obesity debate, Every year we procure over 500m of concerted energy saving efforts at site, consumer concerns about food provenance, ingredients, raw materials and services from co-ordinated by on site energy champions.
carbon emissions, food waste and skills over 4,000 suppliers.
We make food in 19 shortages.
production sites and we deliver to over 1,000 In partnership with the Carbon Trust, we have supply points.
By driving efficiencies across been working towards estimation of both the It is clear that scrutiny of the food industry this supply chain, both energy costs and total carbon footprint for our UK operations will not dissipate.
The Stern Review on the carbon emissions can be reduced.
Similarly, and the potential for minimising individual Economics of Climate Change, published minimising manufacturing and packaging product specific carbon footprints.
The total in October 2006, added urgency to the waste both reduces costs and environmental carbon footprint study carried out during the environmental debate and in March 2007 impact.
year confirmed the key contributors to our the government set out proposals for a footprint and will allow further development new climate change bill.
This bill sets out Our actions reflect both our statutory of our carbon reduction strategy.
On individual a framework for reducing carbon emissions responsibilities and Northern Foods own product specific carbon footprints we are now to which Northern Foods, along with the initiatives to better manage the resources engaging with the Carbon Trust to consider, rest of the industry, is responding.
Our responses also help us to address in partnership with other food manufacturers one of the key consumer issues that has and retailers, the development of a single At the same time, a growing number of emerged in the last twelve months: Can you methodology for determining product specific consumers are considering wider supply tell me that my food has been made with contributions, as at present no such agreed chain issues when deciding what to eat.
minimal impact on the environment?
They are putting pressure on retailers and question that we, and the industry as a whole, manufacturers to give them answers to have to answer.
questions such as how healthy is my food?, where has it come from?
and has it been made with minimal environmental impact?.
Saving energy Saving energy Driving energy savings in the boiler house, Derek Bailey is one of our on site energy champions.
Northern Foods plc Corporate responsibility report 27 will then be used to generate green electricity.
Responsible sourcing Case study: Energy reduction The first Encycle waste to energy plant, which Our long term commitment to transparent In a systematic approach to reducing Northern Foods, and others in the food industry, sourcing strategies for our materials has energy, it was recognised that the use have played a major role in supporting, is helped us address consumers interest about of monitoring and targeting could help expected to go live in the next 15 months.
the provenance of their food.
Clear policies support efficiency gains.
For example, by Once operational, this process will allow and processes provide tangible evidence of installing controls in a number of chilling Northern Foods to rapidly reduce waste being our commitment and expertise in an area units at one site, we were able to trigger sent to landfill sites to zero in the UK.
which is increasingly under the spotlight.
the defrost cycle as and when needed instead of relying on an automatically In a further move to address the waste For example, our industry leading Farm timed defrost cycle.
Elsewhere hot water agenda, Northern Foods became one of the Assurance Code of Practice, first published in clarifiers, used in steam generation, were first three food manufacturers to sign up to 2000, was updated in December 2006 and was replaced with heat exchangers enabling the Courtauld Commitment in November relaunched to our supplier base.
It remains the more efficient heating and usage of water 2006.
In doing so we joined forces with the case that all products we produce are non-GM.
whilst a vacuum regeneration desiccant UKs major retailers in helping deliver the We also seek to source products, where drier was installed in the compressed Commitments aims of: possible, from the UK and Ireland.
air system, resulting in a significant energy saving.
designing out packaging waste growth Our integrated farm management approach by 2008 minimises reliance on pesticides and our best delivering absolute reductions in packaging in class animal welfare code protects animals Water waste by March 2010 throughout their life cycle and supports the We have continued our programme of driving identifying ways to tackle the problem five basic freedoms: freedom from thirst, efficient water usage through the extension of food waste.
hunger and malnutrition: freedom from of the application of monitoring and targeting discomfort: freedom from pain, injury and methodology.
For example, our Carlisle ready We are currently working with the Waste disease: freedom to express normal patterns of meals site achieved a reduction of over 24,000 Resources Action Programme WRAP to behaviour and freedom from fear and distress.
cubic metres of water through a unique identify the opportunities for reduction that metering system that controls the flow of will allow us to meet these stated aims.
Our commitment to SEDEX, a secure web water to the potato blanchers.
Continual real based system on which companies maintain time monitoring allowed the minimisation data on labour standards at their production of water usage and targeting improvement Case study: Improving the segregation sites, is ongoing.
We have contributed to the resulted in increased efficiency.
of waste development of a SEDEX risk assessment tool By improving the segregation of waste, to aid identification by companies of the Waste Gunstones Bakery was able to improve most vulnerable parts of the supply chain.
Our overall objective is to reduce total waste, performance to the extent that over The business will continue to encourage by reducing waste going to landfill and by 90% of the total waste generated is now membership of SEDEX across its major increasing the amount of waste being recycled.
Cardboard suppliers in 2007 08. and plastic waste is recycled separately To achieve our ambition of diverting all waste where appropriate, whilst recyclable food away from landfill, we have entered into an waste is disposed of to a local incinerator agreement with Encycle LLP, a waste to energy for energy recovery.
infrastructure initiative, for the conversion of our non-recyclable waste into bio fuel which Charting health and safety Dust-free operations Health and safety boards are regularly An extraction fan helps ensure the updated and visible for all employees to see.
atmosphere remains clear when handling flour.
28 Corporate responsibility report Northern Foods plc Safety & wellbeing improvements, the group has achieved a Building a good and safe place Reducing the accident frequency rate near 50% reduction in process fires and to work In our 2005 06 Annual report we committed a very robust reporting culture is now in place.
Northern Foods focus on supporting to reducing our accident frequency rate by its employees is captured in our 30% over three years and significant progress To further embed a Safety First culture into has been made.
Protecting our employees day to day operations, internal Best Practice good and safe place to work through the delivery of a good health and Awards were successfully launched this year.
These recognise our safety performance is a priority for Northern The business also achieved six Royal Society responsibilities to our people and Foods and progress in this area is the first for the Prevention of Accident awards, further agenda item at the management teams underlining the commitment to occupational address our need to attract, retain monthly update and on the main Board health and safety across the group.
and develop talent in an industry agenda.
During 2006 07 Northern Foods characterised by skills shortages.
revisited many of its health and safety standards.
A key outcome of this review was Case study:Working safely at height For us, a good place to work is a safe place the introduction of a revised audit protocol An initiative across the Sandwiches & to work and employee health and safety is with increased focus on operational risks.
Salads business unit has helped to reduce therefore at the top of our agenda.
We have This generated detailed improvement plans work at height risk and ensure compliance focused on driving improvement in this area where standards were below expectation.
with the Work at Height Regulations 2005. and are pleased with progress to date.
Our New sherpascopic platforms which provide approach is diverse, ranging from specific This emphasis on wider safety management additional legs for stability and a safe work initiatives to tackle issues such as working improvement has helped us deliver a 28% zone were introduced to replace ladders.
safely at height, through to ensuring that reduction in the accident frequency rate in Users were re-trained, and improved our multi-cultural workforce is equipped the 2006 07 financial year, well ahead of the inspection procedures were implemented.
with information, in the language they need, 15% target we set, and building on a 21% As a result, there have been no accidents to work safely.
This is a strong result in this financial period involving employees but we believe an even greater improvement working at height.
Employees have In a sector characterised by a growing skills is achievable.
responded positively to the procedures gap we believe that a reputation for great and a best practice model for the rest people management is the best way to To deliver sustained improvement, all senior of the business has been created.
We want our personnel and those with direct operational employees to benefit from their work with responsibility have specific health and safety Northern Foods, whether they are being objectives as part of their performance Learning and development encouraged to acquire a new skill on the contracts and training packages have been Northern Foods supported a range of initiatives shop floor, or they are a manager developing developed for middle level managers.
in this area during the year.
To that end we have continued the company formally signed a unique multiour focus on supporting learning and As part of the group wide focus on operational union, multi-site National Learning Agreement development and encouraged a culture of risk reduction, several initiatives were in which it set out its goals to promote, open communication where ideas can be implemented to reduce the incidents of support and monitor learning activities for shared.
We have also worked hard during the process related fires.
These included a review all employees.
Progress is being monitored year to support initiatives which will benefit of oven fire suppression standards, auditing on quarterly through a joint Northern Foods and the wider industry, such as our sponsorship fryer operations, and the completion of several unions committee.
of the Northern Foods Foundation for Science workshop events, at which all sites with oven and Technology, a bursary scheme for students equipment were represented.
This process of food science or related degree courses.
was led by the chief executive.
As a result of these initiatives, and investment in site 2003 04 12.3 Creating a safe 2004 05 11.2 place to work 2005 06 8.8 2006 07 5.6 Accident frequency rate 2006 07 Reportable accidents per million hours worked.
Northern Foods has consistently reduced its accident frequency rate year on year weve made good progress but believe an even greater improvement is achievable.
Northern Foods plc Corporate responsibility report 29 In January 2007, the company launched The The companys formal employee consultation Promoting healthy balanced Northern Foods Foundation for Science & mechanism, The Northern Foods Forum, met lifestyles Technology.
This charitable body will provide twice in the year, both at a national and As one of the UKs leading food grants to 30 new students a year throughout divisional level, to discuss and consult on their degree course at three of Britains leading employee issues, whilst the local site Forums manufacturers, we have a food science education establishments, Leeds, remain an active part of the consultation responsibility to encourage healthy Nottingham and Reading Universities.
The Divisional Forum is under eating and to help consumers make scheme, which will be available to the review in line with the companys adoption informed choices about the food September 2007 intake, will raise awareness in of a business unit operating structure.
schools of food industry career opportunities they eat.
and enhance the number and quality of Also introduced during the year was an applications to food science or related degree induction pack for all shop floor employees, Our approach in this area is also in line with courses.
which is translated into Polish, Portuguese the governments 2004 White Paper, Choosing and Urdu, which, after English, are the most Health.
This states that the food industry has Over the year, the company also worked common languages spoken across the a role in helping to change the UKs eating closely with Improve, the sector skills council business.
This pack means that essential habits and in helping to tackle diet and for the food and drink industry, in its efforts messages on food safety and health and health issues such as reduction of salt intake to address the skills gap.
Northern Foods also remains committed to During the year we have continued our focus the provision of learning centre resources Case study: Employee opinion survey on ensuring that the food we make includes which provide our workforce with access to As part of a strategy to increase levels a wide choice of healthy options and we are a wide range of basic skills training such as of employee communication and pleased with the progress we have made.
English Language or IT basics.
However, the involvement, an annual employee opinion We have also supported initiatives which help business disposal programme affected our survey is conducted by the Sandwiches & consumers make informed choices about the target, set last year, of doubling these resources Salads business unit.
A total of 2,000 food they are eating.
to twelve within three years.
The company now employees were able to participate in the operates three centres, including one opened 2006 07 survey and the process attracted Providing choice during 2006 07 and we believe six operational a response rate of 80%.
With responses At the beginning of the financial year we set centres by 2008 09 is now an appropriate fed into the business planning process, a target of increasing the provision of healthier target.
Planning has begun for two further the survey helps the business to highlight eating options in all of our main product centres to open in 2007 08. and respond to issues raised and build on categories over the next three years.
This year, as a result of feedback, Open communication the business unit ran a number of internal A combination of product innovation and In a year of major transition, which saw training days for Joint Consultative recipe reformulation during 2006 07 means employee numbers reduce from over 20,000 Committee members, aimed at enhancing that Northern Foods is now able to provide to 10,700, Northern Foods has placed great communication processes across the healthier eating options across all of its main emphasis on communication, consultation business.
Also new in 2006 07 was an categories.
This successfully builds on a and recognition to ensure that people have employee support counselling service platform of 40% in 2005 06, thereby understood the impact, or indeed, the in which volunteers were trained to work achieving our target within one year.
Accordingly, open alongside their colleagues to help resolve and regular communication has been a any issues they may have, both inside and characteristic of the year with key information outside of work.
cascaded in a timely and consistent manner, backed up by comprehensive support materials such as detailed Q&As.
The communications process was further supported by the provision of an independent advice helpline.
Developing future talent Studying food science Food science and technology students at Nottingham University, one of three universities involved in a new student bursary scheme, the Northern Foods Foundation for Science & Technology.
30 Corporate responsibility report Northern Foods plc Opinions vary as to the contribution of To further support informed consumer choice, individual food products to a healthy diet and Case study: Naturally Foxs the company also took steps during the year a healthy balanced lifestyle.
For some it means A range of great tasting biscuits using to introduce front of pack nutritional labelling taking ingredients out, such as reducing salt simple store cupboard ingredients and across its branded products, a process which is content, removing hydrogenated vegetable oils nothing else is the promise of Naturally being implemented on a rolling basis over the HVOs or producing low calorie versions of Foxs.
The new range of five biscuits, next two years.
We continue to monitor the classic favourites.
For others, it can mean including Wholemeal Yorkshire Shortbread debate regarding guideline daily amounts putting goodness in, for example incorporating and Dark Chocolate and Macadamia Nut, GDAs and traffic lights labelling.
super foods such as seeds, broccoli or berries were successfully launched in January into recipes or using only organic ingredients.
2007 to meet growing consumer Charity and community involvement demand for products made with natural, During the year the group funded a number We define healthier foods as those which wholesome ingredients with no additives of community related programmes.
These offer nutritional benefits over their standard or preservatives.
The ingredients and the included ongoing support for PhunkyFoods products.
We seek to provide consumers with recipes are detailed on the pack to and sponsorship of the Business in real options for choosing healthier alternatives, reinforce the Naturally positioning.
The Community BITC Rural Action Award, both through innovation and through the which recognises companies that can improvement of existing recipes.
Examples of demonstrate the positive impact of their products introduced during the year include Informing choice business in rural areas.
Our work with local a range of nutritionally balanced ready meals, Helping the next generation to understand communities is driven primarily at site level, organic soups and an egg salad sandwich with how to eat more healthily was the driver while programmes such as PhunkyFoods added Omega 3. behind our continued sponsorship of the demonstrate how an aligned CR programme PhunkyFoods programme in 2006 07. can benefit the communities in which we Salt reduction PhunkyFoods is a curriculum based schools operate at a wider level.
In addition to the Good progress on salt reduction continues, programme which teaches primary school above, Northern Foods donated 59,600 through ongoing product reformulation across children fundamental life skills relating to 2005 06: 89,000 to various charities.
our branded and own label ranges.
We have nutrition, physical activity and food choice.
worked closely with the FSA since 2003 in All lesson materials are written and developed Conclusion support of its target to reduce consumer salt by independent registered nutritionists and In outlining our CR framework last year, we intake to 6g per day by 2010 and in March teachers and draw from a wide range of said that the integration of CR initiatives into this year we welcomed the FSAs proposed sources including the British Nutrition our day to day decision making would help self reporting framework which will allow us Foundation, the British Heart Foundation produce a sustainable approach to our to report on reductions.
Salt content is shown and the FSA.
business that benefits all stakeholders over the on all our products to aid consumer choice.
In particular, many retailers have As a result of Northern Foods funding over made public commitments about CR targets Removal of HVOs the last two years, 100 schools in Yorkshire and suppliers such as ourselves will play an The company has continued with its planned have now taken part in the programme.
important role in supporting these targets.
The majority of branded Research of the pilot in September 2006 products are now free from HVOs with the showed that, by following the lesson plans We believe we have made good progress remaining HVOs to be removed by September provided, childrens ability to identify healthier against this objective during 2006 07 both 2007.
We have also worked closely with our food choices increased over a six month through the initiatives outlined above and customers to help them achieve their own period.
The success of these early pilots means through the active role we have played targets for this area.
that PhunkyFoods has now attracted the behind the scenes in contributing to policy support of Local Education Authorities from debate at government and industry level.
Additionally, through Northern Foods mentoring, PhunkyFoods has also Our overall progress was recognised in May attracted further food industry sponsorship, 2007 when Northern Foods approach to allowing it to be rolled out nationally.
It is CR was recognised in the Business in the anticipated that over 375 schools will be Community 100 Companies that Count participating in the programme at the start rankings, a business led benchmark of of the new school year in September 2007. responsible business practice.
Promoting healthy balanced lifestyles Continued support for PhunkyFoods Encouraging healthy eating through our continued sponsorship of the PhunkyFoods programme over 375 schools are expected to participate from September 2007.
Northern Foods plc Corporate responsibility report 31
