HEALTH & SAFETY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL 2627 AUDIT The Boards policy on non-audit work is: The Board recognises that the monitoring and control of Environmental, VEHICLE FLEET Details of membership of the Audit Committee is shown on page 13 Health and Safety EHS and strict adherence to legislative requirements in Tax advisory and other audit-related work including in particular The total fleet in the UK and Republic of Ireland at 30 April 2007 was 65,300, and of meetings held during the year on page 24. all areas of operation forms a key part of its risk management programme.
This is work that, in their capacity as auditors, with an average age of 16 months, of which 14% were cars and the remainder they are best placed to carry out and will generally be asked to do so.
Cars are sold after an average life of 20 months and The Committees terms of reference are available on the Company's website.
The Board has designated the Chief Executive as the person ultimately Nevertheless, where appropriate, they will be asked for a fee quote: commercial vehicles of 31 months.
Our fleet is, therefore, comprised responsible to the Board for all health, safety and environmental matters In summary, these include: Non-audit related and general consultancy work.
This type of work will entirely of modern vehicles.
Over 99% of the fleet is diesel powered.
Responsibility for implementing the Groups policy either be placed on the basis of the lowest fee quote or to consultants monitoring the integrity of financial reporting: is devolved to operational management.
From the last quarter calendar year 2006 all of the UKs car and commercial who are felt to be best able to provide the expertise and working reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: vehicle purchases have been Euro IV compliant.
In the UK the principles set out in the management model HSG 65 relationship required.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of monitoring the effectiveness of the Group's internal audit function: Successful Health and Safety Management have been adopted.
This consultants to provide external advice and support to the internal audit enables consistent health and safety standards and disciplines to be department, the auditors will not be invited to compete for the work.
making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment PROPERTY applied at all locations.
of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms As at 30 April 2007, the vehicle rental business in the UK and Republic Fees paid and payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of the year of engagement: of Ireland operated out of 82 properties, of which 20 are primary sites and under review are as shown in Note 7 on page 44.
The Group is committed to pursuing sound EHS management polices monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors 62 are branches.
All but eight of these sites all of which are branches and practices and continually seeks to improve EHS standards in the and developing a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the are located on industrial estates, so our activities have minimal impact workplace by: 4 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS external auditor: and on the local community of the areas in which we operate.
Our sites vary Monitoring and managing the EHS impacts, risks and opportunities Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with in size from the larger sites which will typically have an area of 1.2 acres, monitoring the audit process and any issues arising therefrom.
for the business for the benefit of employees, customers and the institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with such will comprise approximately 9,000 sq.
ft. of workshops and office facilities, The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee local communities in which we operate: information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted with the remainder hard-standing and will employ approximately 35 people.
has recent and relevant financial experience.
within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, at the The smaller sites will have an area of approximately 0.3 acres, have a small Promoting awareness of EHS policy across the business to assess time of announcing the Companys interim and full year results, they are office often of the portacabin type, a valet washbay and in some cases a performance and to set objectives for improvement: and Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to events in the invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
workshop facility, again, often a modular building.
They employ an average Group's financial calendar, the Committee will generally meet four times Reporting on the status of the EHS performance of the business.
Three of the larger sites share premises with Northgate a year.
The other Directors are normally invited to attend, together with the The Companys major institutional shareholders have been advised by Common standards are applied to a wide range of EHS matters, and Vehicle Sales who have a further six dedicated sales sites.
Fleet Technique external auditors, on at least two occasions during the year.
The internal the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions of the Code, the Senior legislative requirements are the minimum standard accepted.
Working operate from offices in Gateshead and the Groups head office building in audit manager also normally makes a presentation to the Committee twice Independent Director and other non-executives may attend these briefings practices and procedures are continually assessed to ensure that Darlington accommodates all central administrative and support services.
and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
everything is being done to meet the highest possible standards of safety All UK locations underwent comprehensive EHS audits during this using comprehensive and robust safety operating procedures manuals.
Since May 2006, the Committee has: All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for discussion reporting period carried out by the Groups EHS function and, where at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than the recommended reviewed the financial statements for the years ended 30 April 2006 and Group policies are agreed through a Steering Group, which meets at necessary, recommendations were made in a formal risk assessment minimum 20 working days notice is given.
In compliance with the 2007 and the interim report issued in January 2007.
As part of this review regular intervals to consider EHS issues, to review performance and to report and action plans agreed and reported upon.
Transparency Rules, introduced in January 2007, the Company will be process, the Committee received reports from Deloitte & Touche on determine the necessary controls for compliance to all legislative requirements.
publishing Interim effectively quarterly Management Statements in March each occasion: An evaluation of EHS arrangements in our Spanish operations is now and September each year.
Details of proxies lodged in respect of the Annual The UKs EHS function is now licensed to carry out a number of training complete and a process is underway to implement a comprehensive and reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by General Meeting will be published on the Companys website immediately courses for the British Safety Council BSC and the Institute of Occupational consistent safety management system within both Fualsa and Record.
Deloitte & Touche and agreed their fees: following the meeting.
During this reporting period over one hundred Within both companies we will apply local standards and where necessary reviewed half-yearly reports by the internal audit manager and approved employees have attended BSC Level one health and safety training courses follow UK good practice.
Fualsa is certified to the internationally recognised the internal audit programme: and have successfully gained this recognised qualification.
The Group Environmental Standard ISO 14001.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE monitored the Groups risk management process: remains committed to continually raising safety standards through training The Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions of The Group are sponsors of Brake, the road safety charity, and are members and is shortly to begin a process of training a number of employees within reviewed the Group's whistle blowing service: the Code throughout the year with the exception that the Code states that of the British Safety Council and the Royal Society for the Prevention the hire companies to a Nebosh General Certificate standard.
verified the ongoing independence and objectivity of Deloitte & Touche: and at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of of Accidents.
independent non-executive Directors, and that the Chairman should not reviewed its own effectiveness.
Health and safety and environmental issues impact on the Groups During the year under review, no incidents resulting in fatality or significant be a member of the Audit Committee.
operations in two main areas: pollution occurred at any of our locations.
No health and safety enforcement Since the retirement through illness of Mr Ballinger as Chairman in notices were served on any company in the Group.
November 2006, Mr Rogerson acted as Chairman on a temporary basis while retaining his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following his appointment as Chairman on a permanent basis in June 2007, Mr Brown has been appointed Senior Independent Director and a search is underway for a new non-executive Director who will be qualified to chair the Audit Committee.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
