17 Corporate Responsibility Our role in our communities The Company is committed to sustainable growth which promotes social, economic and environmental improvement.
We recognise that companies have a positive role to play in developing a society that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Our corporate responsibility policy We promote and protect our reputation through integrating responsible practice on a business-wide basis: in the way that our Company is run: in the services that we offer and in identifying new products or services and market opportunities which reflect customer and wider public concerns relating to society and the environment.
Leadership from the top Community investment scheme The Board is firmly committed to the view that good corporate We recognise the invaluable community contribution that our responsibility practice and responsible behaviour is an integral employees already make in delivering public services and their part of developing a growing and sustainable business.
This involvement in wider community activities.
Our aim as a year, the Company embarked on an exciting new programme company is to support them through policies and practices of work which seeks to embed responsible social, relating to social investment and charitable contributions environmental and ethical considerations throughout the which maximise the social rewards from such investment.
Companys daily practice and to engage and enthuse individual employees within that process.
This year, we introduced a new community investment policy which includes the introduction of a Community Investment Engaging employees Scheme, Community Link.
Every permanent Northgate Our most valuable resource is the people that we employ.
It is employee is entitled to 1 days paid leave to participate in a they who make the difference to our business approach.
The aim of the scheme is to core values stress the need to treat people with respect.
We give employees the opportunities to support good causes that aim to promote diversity and well-being within the workplace are important to them collectively within their local area.
and to fully engage our employees in embedding corporate responsibility into their daily lives.
Our environment We are committed to high standards of environmental care and Our communities continually improving our environmental performance so that Our services are an integral part of the community.
We are we conduct our business in an  committed to encouraging and promoting wider corporate manner and contribute to sustainable development.
This year, community involvement and engaging in dialogue and activity we have developed a new environmental policy which aims to with the wider community in which our services are based.
This further reduce the Companys carbon footprint.
year, we continued to pursue community engagement with organisations such as the Peace Alliance and the Princes Trust.
Climate change is one of the most pressing global issues that We are regular contributors to public policy debate and public all organisations and individuals must address.
The use of policy engagement.
technology to promote flexible working practices and services online to the citizen helps to reduce emissions.
Northgate is actively engaged in working with public authorities to develop online services to the citizen or individual.
It is one of the first companies in the UK to have secured accreditation from BRE, the leading environmental certification body, for its software used to measure home energy performance.
All of our electricity supplies through Dalkia our current facilities management contractor are supplied by true renewable energy which is both CCL-exempt and has zero C02 emissions and we are in the process of engaging with the Carbon Trust to develop further strategies to reduce our carbon footprint.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 18 Corporate Responsibility continued Green Travel This year, we launched a green travel policy.
Each business unit has an appointed green travel policy co-ordinator who oversees the practical implementation of the policy through the development of green travel plans.
We aim to reduce car travel journeys: to get rid of unnecessary meetings and promote the use of videoconferencing through the extension of integrated facilities throughout our entire estate.
We also encourage employee well-being through promoting alternative methods of travel including cycling and walking.
Our other stakeholders Successful and sustained relationships are critical to business success.
Openness, honesty and fairness in dealing with our other stakeholders our investors, our suppliers, opinion formers, government and the wider public are essential for developing good relationships.
So too, is working with them to improve standards of achievement in the field of corporate governance, environmental responsibility and social responsibility.
Sustainable procurement Corporate responsibility taskforce This year, we have introduced sustainable procurement Under the auspices of Board Member, Mr David Meaden, the practices.
Our intention is to integrate sustainability issues Company has established a corporate responsibility taskforce into our entire procurement process: in the identification of to develop a comprehensive and corporate approach to social, needs, the evaluation of tenders and in post-contract environmental and ethical issues.
Sustainable procurement mechanisms were used for awarding a contract for a Group-wide managed hotels The Corporate Responsibility Taskforce meets on a bi-monthly service.
Tenders were evaluated according to a ratio of basis and is working to develop clear and identifiable targets 50 30 20 for price, quality and corporate responsibility issues for improvement.
It reports to the Board and makes accordingly.
Over the next year, we intend to integrate recommendations, as well as taking actions and reporting back corporate responsibility criteria into Group-wide procurement to the divisions and business units.
for facilities management, fleet and travel.
Across the Company, Responsibility Champions have been chosen to represent senior management of all business units.
Their focus is to ensure that policy is put into practice and that business units deliver within the overall corporate context.
Measuring our performance We are committed to measuring our performance through the introduction of a measurement system aligned to our business and corporate responsibility strategy.
We are taking the steps to introduce a system of continuous improvement for delivering and measuring responsible practice across our business.
