Our Business and Society Welcome to our report on Business in Society for 2007.
It is central to our strategy that we should become a more international and more diverse organisation.
We have stepped up our efforts to As Marjorie describes in her review, as an education and information achieve this launching, for example a new development programme company almost all our products and services help our customers to swap people between our companies and between countries succeed and get on in their lives whether its through formal education, primarily on short-term assignments.
lifelong learning or intellectual stimulation.
Our goal is simple: to be a socially responsible company that has a positive impact on society.
The Pearson Foundation continued its work partnering with leading businesses and not-for-profit organisations to support education and Each year we set out targets to help us focus on the way we impact literacy across the globe.
The FTs seasonal campaign once again raised on society across the company and across the world.
Here you can money for the charity Camfed, with readers and staff donating over see how we performed against these targets last year and our new 1.6m for the charity which is dedicated to providing better ones for 2008.
There were several particular highlights in 2007. educational opportunities for girls across Africa.
We extended our We are rapidly increasing our commitment to digital products and Booktime programme in the UK to encourage adults and children services nowhere more so than in our education business, where to read together and again helped set a new world record with we lead our industry in developing new adaptive learning products Jumpstarts Read for the Record campaign in the US.
We were also which use interactive technology to zero in on the needs of individuals.
awarded a Big Tick by the UKs Business in the Community an These services can deliver significant learning gains and help schools award of excellence which recognises companies social impact and, and colleges to be even more responsive to their students.
in Pearsons case, the use of technology to transform student learning.
We made good progress towards our aim of becoming climate neutral You can find further details about these and our other activities across all of our operations by the end of 2009.
Of course, there is still online in our full CSR report at: a lot more to do, and the innovative use of technology will play an www.
com community csr report2007 important part in helping us reach our goal.
We welcome any comments or suggestions you have, which can be sent to me at david.
com Our targets for 2007 Our plans for 2008 Maintain our position in the key indices of social Maintain our position in the key indices of social responsibility.
Achieved Expand our individual company environmental committees into our Expand the environmentally friendly book US and other businesses, directly involving many more of our people.
packaging options to distribution centres outside our key markets of the US and UK.
Ongoing Continue our environmental and labour standards auditing programme, revisiting our printers in Asia, North America and parts of Europe.
Continue our environmental and labour standards auditing programme with our printers in Asia, the Continue the process of becoming a climate neutral company with a view Far East and parts of continental Europe.
Achieved to completing that process globally by the end of 2009.
Continue to advance our programme for independent certification of the paper we purchase Audit the social and environmental policies and impact of companies for our books and newspapers.
Achieved acquired in 2007 and set out plans to integrate them into Pearsons framework for corporate responsibility.
Continue the process of becoming a climate neutral company with a view to completing that process Accelerate our commitment to build a truly international business by globally by the end of 2009.
Ongoing helping more of our people experience a new country on a short-term assignment, with our developing markets as a priority.
Continue our commitment to build a truly international business by helping more of our Show evidence of progress in retention of people with diverse backgrounds people experience a new country on a short-term for both entry level and management positions.
assignment, with our developing markets as priority.
Ongoing Show evidence of progress in retention of people Launch the Pearson International Education Summit, bringing with diverse backgrounds for both entry level and together global education leaders to identify and share exemplary management positions.
Launch the Pearson Foundation Development Fund Use the Pearson Foundation Development Fund to work with our to support our businesses in their work with businesses in Africa, India, and Asia to provide training and support for local community-based programmes around the world.
Achieved teachers in developing communities.
Work with the UK government to extend our Build on the success of our ongoing Booktime and Read for the Record flagship community programme Booktime: Campaigns to showcase the importance of early reading for young build on the success of Read for the Record with people everywhere.
Achieved David Bell, Director for people 7 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
