01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:37 Page 26 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW PENNON GROUP the Group passed the stringent criteria in the Orange SeNSe CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Fund, which observes business conduct and socio-environmental practice, and demonstrates good Socially Responsible Pennon Group endeavours to achieve the appropriate balance between Investment SRI practice.
all its stakeholders, the environment and the needs of the Group.
It has a social and ethical policy which covers the key areas of finance, employees, customers and suppliers, community, management responsibility and communications.
A key objective of the Group is to uphold its reputation for integrity and Sound environmental performance is critical to the success of both fair dealing, which it considers is essential to the long-term well-being South West Water and Viridor.
The Group has a long established of the Group and its key stakeholders.
environmental policy, as set out in its annual Corporate Responsibility Report which will available on the Groups website www.
pennonThe Group also has a Whistleblowing policy which supports its group.
co. uk CR by the end of July 2007. approach to ethical employment practices by encouraging employees to raise, in accordance with a formalised procedure, concerns which Both businesses must comply with the high standards set by the EA to relate to potential unlawful conduct, financial malpractice, dangers minimise their impact on the environment and are responsible for the to the public or damage to the environment.
This policy is treatment and disposal of societys waste in a carefully controlled and reviewed regularly.
The businesses acknowledge the importance of environmental sustainability and have taken measures THE ENVIRONMENT to ensure that their operations enhance the environment whenever possible and minimise any adverse impact.
Significant highlights of the year for the Group were: EMPLOYEES as a major generator of renewable energy, in 2006 07 Group companies produced 460GWh 437GWh in 2005 06 the The success of the Group depends to a significant extent on the equivalent of 154% of energy consumed.
The Group was a net businesses ability to attract and retain appropriately qualified and exporter of energy for the eighth successive year.
The Company seeks to provide them with a the Governments objective to reduce greenhouse gas emissions safe working environment and give them the necessary training and development to fulfil their roles.
listed as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES The Group is committed to supporting the communities in which it operates.
It does this by carefully targeted sponsorship and charitable donations to social and community groups, further details of which can be found in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report available FTSE4Good end of July 2007. in the Business in the Community Environmental Index 2006, the KEY CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS Groups overall score improved from 92.97% to 97.13%, and the The majority of the Groups debt is raised by: Group was the only FTSE 250 company included in the highest scoring platinum rank of 25 companies finance leasing European Investment Bank loans bank bilateral facilities private placements.
