Persimmon Plc Business Review 32 Business Review: Corporate Responsibility Approach Sustainability is a key issue for We aim to be a responsible housebuilder and embed the concept Persimmon.
Our stakeholders expect of sustainability into our core operations.
We have identified six key us to behave in a responsible manner responsibilities that define our approach to: and we have an obligation to demonstrate Build sustainable homes.
to them that we are living up to this Operate efficiently to minimise our impact on the environment.
In particular, local authorities Promote skills within the house building industry.
and planners increasingly expect us to Ensure a healthy and safe working environment.
consider sustainability when we plan our Care for our customers.
developments and build new homes.
Our Sustainability Policy is supported by a number of specific policies focusing on issues pertinent to our business, such as Climate Change.
This means taking into account the direct impacts of our activities, and the Management future impact of our buildings during Responsibility for sustainability rests with the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee.
The Committee includes representatives from across their lifetime.
Our risk management takes the business, including those with operational responsibility and functional responsibility.
Divisional commercial directors coordinate activities across these impacts into account in protecting the Group and implementation is the responsibility of each operating and enhancing our reputation.
Building sustainable homes The homes we build will last for many years.
The way they are designed and built has an impact on how people choose to live and consequently their impact on the environment and society around them.
In 2007, just under 10% of the homes we built were assessed against Building Research Establishments EcoHomes standard, with almost half of these achieving either a very good or excellent rating.
We welcome the introduction of the Governments Code for Sustainable Homes as an enhanced method for assessing sustainability.
We have maintained the standards of energy efficiency of the homes we build compared to last year, measured against the Standard Assessment Procedure SAP used for calculating energy efficiency for Home Information Packs.
We continue to promote innovation, particularly the use of modern methods of construction techniques, such as our innovative Space4 system and technology such as those trialled at our award winning Living-i project to improve the sustainability of the homes we build.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 33 The Living-i project The Eco-Home concept TheTechno Home concept Built with eco friendliness and sustainability in mind, the house makes extensive use of materials that Constructed largely off-site to minimise site waste, the house has lighting and heating which are are recyclable, renewable, reusable and natural.
To minimise energy demands, the Eco House uses a controlled in an energy efficient manner through the intelligent smart home system, which can even micro combined heat and power unit, photovoltaic roof tiles and has highly insulated walls and roof.
be accessed via the internet or a mobile phone.
Other features include waste water recycling and Other features include rainwater recycling and A-rated appliances.
conservation, renewable energy using ground heat extraction and self cleaning glass.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 34 Business Review: Corporate Responsibility continued Waste generated per home built % of customers that would tonnes recommend Persimmon to a friend 86% 86% 86% 10.8 9.5 9.0 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 Brownfield land regeneration: Mitchells Brook, Cape Hill, West Midlands Operating efficiently to minimise our impact Working with local communities on the environment Our regional operating structure, with businesses located in the communities in which we build our homes, means we can be flexible We have a robust approach to environmental management to ensure that during the planning and design process, engage with the local community our impacts are identified and well managed, particularly on our sites.
and build developments in which people want to live.
Space4, our timber frame manufacturing business, is accredited to ISO14001.
As one of the countrys largest housebuilders we have a role to play in helping the Government to deliver on its promise to increase the number Our primary focus remains on waste management.
We have for many of affordable homes.
Westbury Partnerships enhances our capability in this years recycled demolition waste and spoil on our sites and in recent years area, together with Persimmon Partnerships in Scotland.
In 2007, we collated and monitored the house building waste generated on our sites.
built 1,962 partnership homes, representing 12% of our total completions, During 2007, we generated 150,000 tonnes of waste 9.5 tonnes per a 40% increase on the levels of 2006. home built.
This remains broadly consistent with last year.
However, improvements in the way we handle waste on site means that the proportion recycled has increased to 68% 2006: 66%.
Promoting skills within the house building industry Understanding the risks and impacts of climate change is playing a growing role in business.
Greenhouse gas emissions are becoming more Persimmon directly employed 5,501 people in 2007 of whom 31% and more regulated, analysed and priced.
It is important that we stay are female.
Our success relies on the skills and technical ability of our abreast of these changes and their implications for us as one of the UKs employees, and we invest in significant training and development.
Our Homing in on Opportunity education initiative continues to be at In 2007 we developed our climate change position statement that the heart of our approach by encouraging young people to consider a explains the key risks and opportunities for our business from climate career in house building, giving apprentices the opportunity to gain change, what we believe our responsibilities to be and the actions we recognised qualifications and developing our managers of the future.
are taking to address these.
Our statement is available on our website.
Persimmon Plc Business Review 35 RIDDORS per 1,000 employees 12.9 12.2 11.9 11.4 10.3 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Brownfield land regeneration: Mitchells Brook, Cape Hill, West Midlands Ensuring a healthy and safe working environment Aims Health and safety is an integral part of the way we work and it is factored During 2007, we developed a new approach to sustainability.
Our six into almost every decision that is taken within the business, particularly responsibilities provide a set of guiding principles for the Group on those relating to site operations.
which we can build and improve our performance.
In 2007, we launched our Safe Teams Avoid Risk STAR campaign Our primary objective during 2008 is to embed these responsibilities and our first internal health and safety magazine entitled Safety Matters.
into our business and its operational practices, ensuring that our employees In addition, we delivered over 60% more health and safety training days and those working with us understand how we aim to work and our this year.
The number of incidents reportable under the UK Reporting of Our 2007 Sustainability Report and further information on our approach Incidents, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 1995 can be found on our website at www.
com RIDDORs has remained unchanged in 2007, despite the growth in the number of our employees and subcontractors.
Neil Davidson Caring for our customers Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 25 February 2008 We continue to focus on our approach to customer care.
We have monitored our customer satisfaction and quality control for many years.
Recently we have adapted our regular customer satisfaction surveys to the emerging house building industry standard.
These ask our customers a series of questions, including whether they would recommend Persimmon to a friend.
In 2007 86% of our customers responded saying they would, continuing the trend of the past two years.
