uk Sustainability Report 2007 Report on Health, Safety and the Environment Highlights 2007 Zero accidents or reportable incidents Appointed independent HSE auditors Intention to minimise carbon emmissions Garinskoye regional landscape community investment and development 1.
We are also committed to In 2007 Aricom went from being an continued investment in our employees, exploration and development company to a with opportunities to develop their skills, fully fledged mining company following the to promote innovation at work, to maintain commencement of mining operations at our health and well-being.
Consequently our to our workforce enhances morale, reduces responsibilities to the people we employ, the communities within which we work and absences through illness and increases to the environment of the project areas, all staff retention.
Health, Safety and Aricoms environmental, health, safety and Environmental Management social policies are designed to comply with at Aricom both Russian regulatory requirements as The Technical Director based in Moscow implemented under the supervision of the has been tasked with special responsibility Environmental Protection Agency of the for Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Russian Federation Rosprirodnadzor and management.
He reports directly to the with international good practice.
We are HSE Committee of the Board of Directors in using our best endeavours to comply with London.
In addition during 2007 we the International Finance Corporation IFC appointed Wardell Armstrong International performance standards on social and WAI as independent HSE auditors.
They environmental sustainability as well as with will conduct biannual site visits and reviews the IFC Environmental, Health and Safety and report directly to the Board of EHS guidelines.
The IFC, which invested Directors.
in the Group in 2007, undertakes a full environmental and social audit of our To monitor compliance with environmental operations on a regular basis.
and community requirements and deal with any issues arising, Aricom is in the process The development and maintenance of good of creating a dedicated unit, with relations with our local host communities responsibility for ensuring compliance with is another area of great importance for environmental requirements.
We work closely with regional be under the control of the Groups authorities and community organisations Environmental Manager.
The Environmental to establish and support a wide range of 32 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 33 3 Business Review Manager will control and manage the will be effective and will be consistently 3.2 Site Based Health environmental and social planning process implemented throughout the Group.
Management and ensure that all plans that are As mentioned above, in 2007 Aricom implemented comply with state and 4.2 Leadership and Awareness commenced an initiative, first implemented international standards.
at Kuranakh, which is intended to provide As the maturity of our operations increases, guidance to sites in developing site-based hazard identification and risk awareness will 3.
Health health management programmes covering: be fundamental to our continuing success.
The health and wellbeing of the people We will have to determine appropriate Fatigue management.
who we employ and those in the standards of behaviour of our people in Medical assessment.
communities within which we operate are order to minimise, and eventually eradicate, Travel health.
central to the success of our business.
In this respect effective safety Ergonomic analysis.
We continue to strengthen our efforts to Health promotion.
understand the potential for health risks The need to address and increase safety as it is only through understanding that awareness is integral to Aricom maintaining We need to ensure that our employees are the risk can be minimised and eventually a zero injury record.
Effective safety physically capable of performing all activities eliminated.
With this goal in mind Aricom leadership is crucial and we hold line required of them and that medical has appointed a Health and Safety Officer management accountable for the safety of assessments are undertaken where work at each of our mining operations and larger our operations.
In addition we will involve requirements change.
With local employees exploration sites.
our people in defining the ways they are we try to ensure that family members are also most likely to be injured and ask them involved in educational health programmes.
The health risks in the areas in which we to question our safety procedures and operate are not only related to the work identify ways in which the job can be processes.
Community-based health risks done more safely.
3.3 Community Health and Safety exist and we continue to contribute to the Due to the remote location of many of our management of these issues.
4.3 Safety Performance sites Aricom have an open door policy with regard to the use of our medical At Kuranakh we are introducing systems Some of the potential health risks present in facilities by the local communities where to coordinate, measure and track our the regions in which we operate include: the local facilities are insufficient.
These systems will Inherent occupational health risks provide valuable data to enable effective associated with the nature of our In order to provide for the safety of the intervention to address or reverse a operations, such as noise, dust, hazardous people living nearby we ensure that our negative trend before it results in injury, materials and gases, and vibration.
project area is cordoned off and no damage or loss.
These systems comprise Alcoholism and drug abuse.
In addition of site visits, observations, audits and Insect borne diseases such as heavy vehicle traffic from our site is inspections: safety communications encephalitis.
prohibited from entering and using the meetings and toolbox talks: implementation Travel-related risks.
roads leading to the local community.
of site safety action plans: accurate reporting and recording of all near miss, Fitness for work and health management incident and accident statistics.
Aricom 4. occupational Safety issues are important areas of employee recognise that a key factor in improvement health.
Aricom has undertaken a great deal The safety of our employees, contractors of our standard of safety is the ability to of work to advance this area.
One aspect is and the communities in which we operate is learn from significant near miss incidents to ensure that health matters, particularly fundamental to the success of our business.
and apply corrective interventions before those of operators of machinery, do not Aricom is proud to report that during the the same underlying causes manifest as impact on the safety of the workplace.
This year 2007 we had zero accidents or material more serious accidents.
is exemplified by the development of a reportable incidents on any of our projects.
fitness, drug and alcohol management Whilst this is an outstanding achievement it programme at our Kuranakh operation.
Environmental Protection is one which must be sustained year-in-yearKuranakh each employee responsible for out in order to have any impact.
Aricom are engaged in a number of operating machinery undergoes a voluntary exploration and production projects in the five minute medical check up, conducted by We want to create an environment where Russian Far East.
We are aware that our qualified medical staff, at the start and end people believe it is possible to work injury projects have the potential to affect the of every working shift.
free regardless of where they are, what environment.
This can occur in a number role they undertake or in which part of our of ways, including: 3.1 Personal Safety Protective business they work.
Impacts on land associated with land Equipment PSPE disturbance and land-use change.
Some of our projects are situated in regions of Aricom intends to make obligatory the use 4.1 Health and Safety Procedures virgin forest and others in areas of natural of PSPE.
At present each site has its own Throughout the Group our line managers scenic and untouched locations.
We have method for evaluating what PSPE is required are accountable for the implementation of a responsibility to maintain or return the by which employees and when it shall be the Health and Safety Procedures that were environment to its former state through used.
As more of our projects go into the developed in 2007.
Additionally they are project specific closure programmes.
production phase we shall ensure that there responsible for ensuring that supporting are standard processes for PSPE evaluation systems are in place.
Aricom is confident and compliance throughout the Group.
that our procedures and associated systems A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 33 3 www.
uk Sustainability Report Water usage and reductions in water 5.1 Environmental Management quality as a result of mine discharge.
At It is Aricoms stated intention to prepare a Aricoms Kuranakh production site we are full set of Environmental Management Plans fortunate that the only additive to be incorporating an Environmental and Social used in the entire process of producing Management System with the intention both titanomagnetite and ilmenite is of achieving ISO 14000 accreditation water.
The plant operates in a closed within the next three years.
The plans circuit with no discharge into local water will be designed to be aligned to the courses.
Domestic sewerage from the requirements of ISO 14001 and accommodation camp is treated in a bioconsequently provide a risk-based disk filtration plant with the solid residue approach to environmental management.
being placed in the tailings dam.
Emissions of greenhouse gases and other Aricom acknowledges that support will be gases and particulates, such as carbon necessary from qualified professionals in dioxide and oxides of sulphur and order to meet this aim.
Aricom ensure that all diesel closely with all concerned parties and engines emitting carbon gases are report back regularly on implementation of regularly maintained to minimise the recommendations made by WAI in their role amount of emissions.
Boiler houses as independent environmental auditors.
burning coal are fitted with flue gas cleaning units to minimise the emission Animal life in the Amur region of particulates.
Case Study Emergency Preparedness and Response 1.
The project site authorities about an emergency situation, 6.
is not located in a zone of potential the operations will be interrupted The operations at the project site do not radioactivity or chemical hazard.
The interruption can present a hazard to the environment due into consideration the hydrographic imply stopping of all or some of the to the fact that they do not require the characteristics of the project area, it is technological processes, since the use of reagents and chemical materials.
not considered likely that any damage operating process is designed in such a The only facilities that may potentially will be caused by floods resulting from way that the interruption of one process present danger are: the fuel and lubricant the collapse of any hydrotechnical does not lead to the interruption of the storage tanks and the tailings area.
construction such as regional dams.
Both of these will be properly equipped to prevent or localise the effect of 2.
All of the personnel are subject 4.
In case of a radiation breakdowns or accidents that may cause to emergency procedure practices contamination there is a radiation shelter harm to people or the environment.
The conducted at regular intervals as constructed to protect personnel.
The fuel and lubricants storage area contains required by Federal law.
In addition, radiation shelter will be located in the the following safety systems: safety training will be conducted by administration building of the process Underground reservoir that collects the Health and Safety Department with plant and will contain all the necessary spillages in the case of the loss of the frequency determined for each equipment, engineering, life-support containment in the system.
particular type of work by Russian systems, and the construction will comply A bund along its perimeter that protects legislation, but at minimum once a year.
with all the legal and safety requirements.
adjacent areas from fuel or lubrication materials spillages.
The fire alarm system is Waterproof bottom in the foundation of alarm signals on the project site there is a installed for the timely detection of a fire the storage that prevents spillages into civil emergency alarm system installed that outbreak and will alert the duty person the soil.
is integrated into the local emergency in the control room and the fire station Reinforced-concrete channels to collect alarm system of the Tynda district which located close to the camp.
Special rainwater, melt water, and possible in turn joins into the alarm system of the equipment fire prevention tools, fire fuel spillages.
Amur region, as advised by the order extinguishers is available.
The construction All pipelines are constructed in metal issued by the Ministry of Civil Defense.
of the buildings allows quick and safe trays to prevent spillages of oil and fuel The alarm system allows the transmitting evacuation of the people in the case of a to the soil.
of voice data and sound signals through fire according to the approved evacuation all means of communication satellite, plan.
For extinguishing the fire inside the The tailings dam is equipped with: telephone, facsimile, radio communication, buildings 50mm fire-cocks have been Permafrost bound dam body.
and loudspeakers in case of an installed in addition to dry chemical, Boreholes with piezometers.
foam, and CO fire extinguishers.
Lutov- 2 design fire hydrants are used for 7.
Emergencies caused by natural Emergency situations will be managed extinguishing the fire from the outside.
The project is located in a from the control room manned by a All of the facilities in the project are region of high seismic activity Consequently permanent duty person and located connected by the internal road system all of the facilities are constructed taking in the project administration building.
which allows access for the fire truck which into consideration potential earthquakes, In case of a signal from the regional has permanent fire-fighting staff.
wind effect and the permafrost 34 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 35 5 Business Review World Bank Social and Environmental Measurement Criteria summarised Performance indicators Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Performance indicators Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Employees Incidents problems No No Direct Employment 228 467 Community consulted about plan Yes Yes Contractors 250 250 Number of jobs created or preserved 240 Social Number of women in mining 12 31 Direct adverse health impacts Percentage of employees from Oblast 88% 81% from operations No No Percentage of employees from local community 0% 5% Indirect e. g. HIV AIDS health impacts No No Percentage of nationals in top management 77% 79% Nuisance e. g. noise, dust etc.
impacts Number of employees receiving training 18 96 on community No No Initiatives to hire and train local workers Yes Yes Increased tensions alcoholism No No Acceptance by local community Yes Yes Community Access to infrastructure Community engagement Number of water electricity gas connections Frequency of consultations Quarterly Quarterly Number of power substations built 2 Community say in social spending No No Kilometers of roads built 23 46 Community development plan No No Independent community fund in place No No Purchases from local suppliers Local supplier SME development program Yes Yes Planning for project closure Project closure plans Yes Yes Environmental and social impacts Plans for community beyond closure No No Environment Plans public and consulted about Yes Yes Displacement of other activities No No Case Study Emergency Preparedness and Response conditions.
Due to the very low identification of risk management actions Closure Planning temperatures in the area in winter the and development of reasonable and Closing a mining and processing operation facilities contain frost-resistant metal accurate closure cost estimates.
poses risks and opportunities that need to constructions, and heating and be identified, assessed and managed.
The drainage Resource Conservation important aspect when planning for closure systems are constructed to protect the is the development of a post-mining plan.
We clear land to access resources and area from rainfall.
Lightning protection Understanding the needs, aspirations and to allow the construction of the required and earthing devices are installed in all of concerns, particularly those of the infrastructure.
Our operations aim to the facilities, in particular at the explosive authorities and local communities, is a minimise disturbance and to rehabilitate storage, fuel and lubricant storage, and critical dimension to this process.
Whether land as soon as it is not required for access.
In summary, all or not a property will require ongoing care, At Kuranakh we have an extensive sawmill of the facilities are constructed with maintenance and monitoring will also and carpentry department where the consideration for the local natural feature in the long-term closure plan and majority of the trees that we cut, in order processes and climatic conditions.
to clear the land, are made into doors, window frames, and furniture for use in 8.
Planning for closure occurs throughout the the accommodation camp.
There are full-time medical department life of the project, starting with exploration specialists available to provide help in the and development of a property and We use water in our mining and processing case of accidents, injuries and sicknesses.
continuing as long as necessary.
Access to clean water is an Minor injuries can be treated and first value in integrating closure planning from the issue of growing international importance aid can be given in the site medical inception of mine planning and operations.
and a key challenge for sustainable department.
In the case of a more serious Additionally, there is value in the timely and development.
As far as possible we use injury or illness the person will be efficient execution of closure according to closed circuit operations that significantly immediately transported to the Tynda well considered plans and schedules.
reduce the amount of fresh water that we district hospital in the medical evacuation require.
helicopter available at any time.
Although there is currently no specific requirement or guidelines for closure 9.
Financial resources for emergency Tailings and Waste Rock management under Russian State or management.
To manage any emergency Large quantities of tailings and waste Federal law Aricom is setting aside amounts the following funds are available: rock will be generated in our mining and of monies determined by international a.
The emergency reserve fund of the processing operations.
We have detailed consultants familiar with closure costs.
Amur regional government regional plans for tailings management and waste budget funds.
rock stockpile construction included in the As we develop new projects each asset b.
The local emergency reserve fund of Feasibility Studies for both Kuranakh and will review existing corporate plans and the Tynda district administration local K&S.
Where possible, opportunities for make adjustments as required to meet budget.
backfilling and re-use will be utilised.
This review will c. The emergency reserve of the project include a rigorous assessment of site Aricom funds.
specific closure risks and opportunities, A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 3 35 5
