Corporate Responsibility Our impact on society As a leading provider of transport services in Europe we Reflecting the importance of the four themes, Steve Clayton, play a vital economic and social role in the lives of millions an executive director, leads from main Board level to set policy, of people across the 10 countries in which we operate.
On and encourage improvements and the sharing of knowledge behalf of our employees, customers, shareholders and all and best practice.
the communities we serve, we believe in promoting the Formal policies set out certain aspects of our approach to the environmental benefits of modal shift to public transport, wider community.
Our set of Corporate Responsibility policies whilst operating responsibly to mitigate the environmental can be viewed on our website at www.
Safety In managing our social impact we focus on four themes, from The safety of our customers and employees is our primary the boardroom to our depots: concern.
It is at the core of our values and is built in to all our 1.
Safety Operating our services in a way that minimises operating procedures.
the risk to our passengers and employees.
Safety practices are reviewed regularly by the Board Safety 2.
Community Making a positive impact and building on the Committee see page 58 - Corporate Governance, which is value we provide with our transport services.
chaired by a non-executive director, Veronica Palmer, with another non-executive director Steve Williams, and Steve Clayton 3.
Employees Helping our people to make the most of their as members.
The committee monitors all aspects of safety in potential, and being a good employer.
our operations, reviews and reports to the Board on the companys internal safety management system, and oversees 4.
Environment Finding the right balance between enabling the group safety policy and the arrangements for its people to make the journeys that enrich their implementation.
lives, and helping to minimise the environmental impact of those journeys.
Our approach to safety management includes specific training for senior operational managers, employees and supervisory staff.
Much of the training is externally accredited by the 34 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 2 2.. Comm Communi unitty y Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH, Our transport services help maintain the heartbeat Europes leading body for health and safety for the communities we serve.
We work with other members of our on us, we have to be dependable.
A key industry to share best practice and reduce risk, and performance indicator for Arriva is the proportion of believe, from the limited industry comparative planned or contracted mileage that we succeed in information available, that our safety record operating on our deregulated and contracted bus represents best practice.
We are also recognised as and rail services.
In 2007, we are proud to have being at the leading edge of road risk management operated 99.1 per cent of the 520 million vehicle in the UK bus and coach industry.
miles that were scheduled - an improvement from the 98.9 per cent achieved in 2006.
Our policy is for each of our transport businesses to provide employees with training including a safe But our community engagement goes deeper than approach to driving, customer care and conflict that with a real commitment by our people and management.
Each operational location is subject to businesses in their local areas.
Work with charities, internal safety and standards audits every six months.
local sports clubs, schools, neighbourhood groups Audits are completed by trained and experienced and the arts all help to cement relationships between safety auditors who will make recommendations and Arriva, its employees and our local communities.
prepare action plans in the event of non-compliance.
Our UK employees are supported with fundraising Arrangements are subject to periodic quality for their chosen good causes in their local assurance audits.
Wider local activities have included visits to school and community groups to spread safety awareness among youngsters, free transport 2007: fault incidents per 100,000 km for community groups and free advertising on buses 2.0 for local organisations and charities.
1.8 1.6 As part of our focus on young people and 1.4 education, Arriva produced a school pack for 1.2 teachers and 11 to 16-year-olds in the UK.
It 1.0 supports key areas of the curriculum including 0.8 lesson plans for maths, sensible road use, how to 0.6 catch a bus and planning a route to school.
0.4 0.2 0 Bus Rail Group A fault incident is where our driver, or the condition of our vehicle, contributes to a loss, damage or injury.
2007: employee injuries per 100 employed 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Bus Rail Group An employee injury is where any person employed by the company at the time of the incident suffered physical harm or mental T The he sa saffe ety ty of of our our c cust ustome omerrs s trauma as a result of an incident arising from Arriva work activity, not including physical assaults.
a and nd empl employe oyee es s is is o our ur pri prim mar ary y c co on nc ce ern rn 35 35 Corporate Responsibility continued The attraction of sport to encourage young people to Innovation in this field includes Arriva Swedens launch lead healthier lifestyles is harnessed through a number of a disco bus fitted with lights and a sound-system of community initiatives.
For example, in Wales, Arriva to engage young people in a positive way, an initiative is main sponsor for the Wales Deaf Rugby Union now being replicated in Italy.
team and supports womens and childrens soccer We have expanded the Child Safe campaign for teams with sponsored kit, with safety awareness families on holiday in Spain and Portugal.
Children integral to these and other community programmes.
using Arriva buses are given brightly coloured Budding young sportspeople won training grants in wristbands on which their parents write emergency Arrivas Search for a Star appeal, after being voted contact details.
The wristbands carry a distinctive for by UK bus passengers.
logo which is matched on Child Safe shops and businesses where a lost child can go to be reunited In Liverpool, Arrivas Healthy Schools Bus, in with their family.
partnership with Everton Football Club, has completed more than 210 school visits since its launch in In Italy our SAF business sponsored a childrens arts November 2006, giving more than 11,000 pupils a fun project promoting understanding of the environmental focus on healthy eating and exercise.
The initiative role of public transport, with sculptures from recycled includes follow-up visits, monitoring pupils progress materials displayed in cities across Europe with the in nutrition and fitness.
Plans are being developed to childrens green transport messages.
replicate the success of the scheme over a wider area.
The safety of people in the communities where Arriva operates is a key element to our work with local people.
Arriva employees in Portugal give regular safety lessons in schools, while in the UK each regional bus depot has a schools liaison officer who works with pupils to develop safety awareness.
Arriva also has two people working with Transport for Londons schools liason programme.
In Wales, work with disadvantaged youngsters promotes a shared sense of community which in turn has the added benefit of reducing antisocial behaviour and reducing rail trespass.
36 36 | | A A Journey Journey in in Time Time Arriva Arriva plc plc Annual Annual Report Report & & Accounts Accounts 2007 2007 3.
Employees Training and development Arriva now has more than 40,000 employees across We invest in our people and encourage them to reach Europe, including a proportional share of associate their full potential, because it is their contribution and companies.
effort that will help the company achieve its vision.
Examples of training and development for employees % Employee turnover 14 include technical qualifications, health and safety training, diversity awareness training and people 12 management skills, in addition to on-the-job training.
10 For several years we have given our employees access to an extensive range of learning and 8 development resources via an on-line facility.
This 6 has recently been expanded and redeveloped into a new website which now includes on-line language 4 training in more than 30 different languages.
A 2 communications skills initiative across our UK 0 businesses is being expanded into mainland Europe.
2006 2007 Our graduate development programme, operating Bus Rail Group across Europe, includes an 18-month development programme, off-job training, coaching from a mentor and regular performance development reviews.
So far we have recruited into graduate schemes in % Employee non-attendance Denmark, Germany, Italy, Sweden and the UK.
6 We have devised a strategic leadership profile, 5 identifying the behaviours which are most important 4 in helping Arriva meet its strategic objectives, and expressed in terms which translate across all the 3 countries in which we operate.
Our performance management process is designed to support the 2 development of our people, improve business 1 performance and support Arrivas leadership agenda.
We also have a succession planning process 0 in place for senior managers and assess the 2006 2007 development needs of those managers who have Bus Rail Group been identified as having good potential.
Annualised employee turnover excludes employees leaving as a consequence of tender loss or sale of operations.
37 Corporate Responsibility continued Morale and motivation Working time In 2007 we repeated our biennial employee survey to Arriva policy is to ensure we comply with all local gauge attitudes and opinions and understand what requirements, though the interpretation and specific we can do better to improve employee motivation.
implementation of EU legislation does vary across European countries.
The feedback, presented to the Board, showed an overall response rate of 54 per cent, a healthy improvement on the 35 per cent recorded in 2005, and giving more meaningful representative feedback on employee opinion.
While overall employee satisfaction remains at 49 per cent, a figure we aim to improve, the survey results showed significant improvements in the responses relating to internal communication, which had shown up in the 2005 survey as an area meriting attention.
During 2006 and 2007 we designed and produced a group-wide programme to help supervisors and managers to communicate better with their teams.
We believe the improvement in scores reflects the success of this initiative.
To enable employees at all levels of the business to have the opportunity to raise ideas and feed back customer comments, each business has developed an action plan to respond to feedback from employees.
We intend to repeat our survey again in 2009 and will continue to use employee feedback as a valuable source of management guidance.
Employee representation We make extensive use of works councils and endeavour to maintain close working relationships with the trades unions covering our industry.
Arriva operates a European Works Council which provides a forum for a formal group-wide update on operations and business performance and best practice sharing, facilitated by visits to operational units in the host country.
During 2006 and 2007 we Across our UK and mainland Europe businesses, designed and produced a the vast majority of our workforce is covered by collective agreements on working conditions, and group-wide programme to we make appropriate arrangements for union officials to receive training and to carry out official help supervisors and union business.
managers to communicate better with their teams 38 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 4.
Environment G Grreenhouse eenhouse ga gases ses Compliance with standards No transport operator can fail to be aware of the Around 10 per cent of the companys sites are broad scientific consensus that greenhouse gases certified to the ISO14001 environmental management GHG, including carbon dioxide CO2 from the standard.
burning of fossil fuels, are implicated in climate change.
The group has legal compliance as a minimum standard and aims to exceed this wherever All modes of transport can expect to come under practicable.
This is a group-wide approach, subject increasing scrutiny, reflecting increased concern to local legislation, and is tested through about the effects of GHG emissions.
In doing so appropriate audit procedures.
there is a balance to be maintained.
Access to transport and freedom of movement are not only Across the whole group, we work to exceed legal highly prized aspects of human society, they are compliance through trial and adoption of new and also at the heart of economic and social well-being.
novel technologies, and through working in Public transport has a great deal to offer as part of partnership with suppliers to ensure that we are the answer to maintaining vital mobility, using the most appropriate product or service in the underpinning freedom of movement and economic circumstances.
prosperity while keeping a brake on unnecessary emissions.
Furthermore in many cases improved environmental performance goes hand in hand with reduced business costs.
That is, lower fuel consumption leads to lower GHG emission and lower spend on fuel.
39 Corporate Responsibility continued GHG footprint Arrivas GHG footprint has been estimated by the The emissions associated with the bus fleet account Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management ECCM for 78 per cent of the total, or 816,728 tonnes of from data provided by the company.
Train fleet emissions contribute 16 per cent to operational emissions were estimated as 1,049,998 the total 164,835 tonnes of CO2e, and site energy tonnes of CO2 equivalent CO2e.
This represents consumption contributes four per cent to the total an increase in absolute emissions of 3,310 tonnes 42,020 tonnes of CO2e.
Other emissions sources CO2e 0.3 per cent compared to 2006. waste disposal and refrigerant losses contribute approximately two per cent to overall emissions.
ECCM estimates that the GHG emissions calculations carried out in this study have an During the assessment period we used biodiesel associated uncertainty of -13 per cent and the blends in some bus and train fleets.
The reduction in final emissions estimate is therefore assigned an emissions on a tank to wheel basis through using overall good evaluation in terms of confidence in biofuels has been included in the results reported in the data.
However, the uncertainty factor means the the assessment.
recorded 0.3 per cent change is too small to be regarded as of any statistical significance.
2007 GHG footprint The assessment includes bus and train fleet fuel 4.0% 2.5% consumption, premises energy consumption, waste disposal, company owned vehicles, and refrigerant Site energy gas losses, but not business travel.
This is 15.7% consumption consistent with the approach taken for the 2005 and Bus fleet 2006 assessments.
The amount of CO2e associated Train fleet with business travel is believed to be not material in Other the context of the group as a whole.
77.8% Total like-for-like GHG emissions Tonnes of CO2e 1,080,000 1,030,000 980,000 2006 2007 40 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 We intend to use our GHG emissions data to identify For many years we have been reducing vehicle areas for improvement and increased management emissions in terms of urban air pollutants other than focus.
In doing so we will also aim to improve the CO2.
Much progress has been made through the carbon-efficiency of our ancillary functions such as introduction of progressively cleaner engine the way we manage our depots and other facilities, technologies, and the high standards of and business travel.
maintenance which keep those vehicles working efficiently and passing regular inspections.
GHG emissions reduction target We are aiming to reduce our GHG emissions footprint, However, over recent years new buses and trains have measured on like-for-like operations, by 15 per cent tended to use more fuel than their predecessors.
We specify like-for-like has been partly as a side effect of improving to ensure we can continue to track meaningful emissions of local pollutants, and partly an effect of progress if we make a major acquisition or disposal, increased vehicle weights, stemming from improved or win a large contract.
engine technology and increased equipment specifications, including those to enhance safety, Most of Arrivas GHG footprint, unsurprisingly, is laid down by tendering authorities and regulators.
derived from the fuel that powers our buses and trains.
This must therefore be the area to focus our Our 2012 GHG reduction target is demanding, efforts in order to make the biggest possible especially given the heavier fuel consumption of these improvements.
more recent generations of vehicles which are working their way through our fleets.
We are unlikely to meet Our long-term fuel strategy is: that target entirely as a result of changes which are within our sole control, but we hope that over time it 1.
To use what we must as efficiently as possible will be possible to encourage other parties to make subject to commercial restrictions and changes which help us.
Reaching the 15 per cent considerations.
target, on our present plans, requires us to make assumptions which we consider to be reasonable on 2.
To make what we use as environmentally friendly the future availability of biofuels, but which will depend as possible.
on supporting decisions taken by governments and 3.
To maximise the social and economic benefit of fuel suppliers.
that fuel use by using it to carry as many Alternative fuels passengers as possible.
Arriva has a record of innovation in identifying viable low emission and renewable fuels, and putting them into service where operationally and commercially practicable.
This has several benefits for the group.
Fossil-fuel based diesel fuel is a finite resource and we consider it prudent to learn as much as possible about how our existing and potential vehicles may be adapted to operate on different fuels.
This learning is shared with fuel suppliers and vehicle manufacturers and helps all parties involved to move into the future with greater confidence and experience.
In some countries it enables us to operate at reduced cost, as a result of economic incentives to stimulate the market demand for alternative fuels.
It allows us, as service providers, to respond to the expressed public policy objectives of governments at many levels in the communities we serve.
Finally, it gives us an important way of reducing our GHG footprint in the medium term.
We are aiming to reduce our GHG emissions footprint, measured on like-for-like operations, by 15 per cent from the 2006 figure, by 2012 41 Corporate Responsibility continued The diversity of our fleet and operating markets We are also experimenting with alternative vehicle allows us to quickly evaluate the possible benefits designs.
Our London business, with Transport for and to rapidly implement potential solutions.
London, is conducting trials of the worlds first hybrid double-decker bus.
The bus uses electric motors in In Germany, Arriva is using environmentally friendly tandem with diesel engines to reduce emissions by biodiesel which reduces CO2 emissions by up to 90 a potential 40 per cent.
per cent, derived from locally grown rape seed oil, for trains at our PEG and ODEG operations and our Local air pollution reduction Bils bus company.
Since 2001 Arriva has invested more than 480 million in modern buses and trains that are in line with, and In Portugal, building on our improvements in upgrading sometimes exceed, the latest EU environmental operations to Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel ULSD, we standards.
All new buses now meet the strict Euro 4 have started running 240 buses on a B30 biodiesel benchmark, whilst new trains meet the Euro Stage blend - a mixture of 30 per cent biodiesel and 70 per 3A standard, offering steep reductions in emissions cent mineral diesel - which will lead to a net reduction of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons of up to 30 per cent in CO2 emissions for those and particulate matter less than 10 microns in size.
Although climate change and local air quality issues In the UK we began trials of B20 biodiesel blend are generally regarded as the most prominent using Fatty Acid Methyl Ester FAME to reduce environmental concern relating to transport companies, carbon emissions by around 20 per cent net for 75 other matters such as use of water and waste disposal vehicles.
The FAME is predominantly a mixture of are still important.
sustainable soya products, along with used cooking oil and tallow.
The trial, moving into the appraisal In 2007 we started research into the reduction in our phase, runs in Blyth, Northumberland, where our use of energy and water, and the opportunity to use buses carry around 130,000 passengers every week.
renewable energy within the existing public transport infrastructure.
For example, in 43 sites belonging to Biofuels are no less controversial than any other four of our UK regional bus operations we installed energy source.
Arriva, despite its advanced advanced heating controls, incorporating electronic deployment of biofuels in some markets, accepts controllers and sensors operating inside and outside that the science and politics of biofuels have not yet buildings.
Heating-energy savings in these sites over developed fully and may change over time.
In planning the first nine months of operations ranged from 32 a measured extension of our use of biofuels to help per cent to 42 per cent, encouraging us to expand meet our GHG emissions reduction targets, we the programme in 2008 and investigate similar believe we are also contributing towards the public technologies which could control lighting systems.
policy objectives expressed by the European Commission and the UK, German and Portuguese The priorities and solutions for managing our governments, all of which envisage increased takeenvironmental impact in one location are often not the up of biofuels as one measure to combat climate same as in another location.
There is greater scope change, and have built that assumption into their for use of solar power in southern Portugal than in own policies.
If any such policy objectives change to Scotland, and a greater need to save water resources discourage biofuel use then we will be likely to amend in Spain than in the Netherlands.
Where we find good our GHG emissions reduction targets accordingly.
practice and innovation delivering benefits, we always look for ways in which other parts of Arriva Different driving, different designs can benefit.
The way our buses are driven has a big impact on fuel consumption and thereby CO2 emissions.
Since early 2007 we have been running a project in northwest England to measure individual journeys and how fuel is used.
Early results are promising, and are factored into our plans to reach our 2012 GHG emissions reduction target.
42 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 In the last six years, we have invested 480 million in modern buses and trains which are in line with latest EU standards i.
Vehicle split by engine type ii.
Water consumption per vehicle: 88 90 cubic metres iv.
Energy consumption per vehicle 13,035 13,390 Kwh 43 43
