66 Social responsibility and sustainability report POLICY STATEMENT Randgold Resources is Our integrated social and environmental management process identifies potentially significant negative and committed to the integration positive impacts.
The implementation of sustainable environmental and social responsibility strategies of sustainable environmental aims to minimise negative impacts and maximise the positive impacts of its activities, commensurate with and social impact its business strategy and within national and World Bank standards.
The strategies it uses to achieve management into its this include the following: business activities.
The Encourage and reward the use of integrated environmental management to ensure that optimum utilisation of management decision making processes include a sensitive and holistic consideration of mineral and other resources environmental issues.
To facilitate this, all projects must include a comprehensive environmental encompasses the protection and social impact assessment.
Where appropriate, specialist consultants are employed.
and conservation of the Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring communities, local and national government existing environment.
Within authorities, NGOs and aid agencies and the public.
this framework, the company Respect and consult with the communities in the areas affected by its operations so that these strives to assist the comcommunities receive fair treatment and where possible benefit from the companys activities.
munities most affected by its Budget a percentage of profit to be used for sustainable community development projects.
operations to develop in a The projects are selected and prioritised in sustainable way and to give consultation with communities and carried out in cooperation with community members.
all its employees a high Aim to forge a pact with employees through having respect for fundamental human rights, quality of work life, including including workplace rights, employee development and the need for a healthy and a safe workplace.
Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation, waste management and environmental protection in the most cost effective manner.
Strive to optimise the consumption of energy, water and other natural resources.
Through the introduction of new alternative environmentally friendly products and processes, as they become available, avoid the use or release of substances which, by themselves or through their manufacturing process, may damage the environment.
Practise responsible environmental stewardship to meet the demands of local communities, host country government requirements and international standards and strive for continuous improvement of environmental performance.
For details of the implementation of the social responsibility policy, refer to the review of operations: Loulo pages 33 and 34 Morila pages 39 and 40 Tongon pages 44 and 45.
66 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Dir Dir Directors r ectors r ectors report eport eport Samba Dieng Director, Kankou Moussa Pilot turned jeweller Samba Dieng is a director of Kankou Moussa, a partnership between Randgold Resources, Mali gold companies most significantly Loulo and the government of Mali.
It was established in 2007 as a bullion bank designed to give the Malian jewellery industry easier access to gold as well as the opportunity to sell their products in the international market.
The bank is named after the legendary 14th century king under whose rule Malis then capital Timbuktu became one of Africas main commercial and cultural centres.
Kankou Moussa is more than just a business, it is the realisation of a dream to bring Malis gold back to ordinary people of the country.
