Corporate social responsibility review Two key themes underpin Redrows management of Corporate Social Responsibility: a drive for continuous improvement: and ensuring effective communication with key stakeholders.
Brian Duckworth Senior Non-Executive Director Continuous Improvement Our Stamford Brook development, in partnership with the Continuous improvement is a key element of Redrows strategy National Trust, has been recognised at the annual North West in throughout our business.
This year has seen a focus on Bloom ceremony where it received the Royal Horticultural strengthening and improving organisational structures and Societys Biodiversity Award.
procedures to meet the objectives set out in our Sustainability Policy and ensuring that Redrow plays its part in combating the 2 Design potential impact of climate change.
Focusing on design excellence, sustainability and performance During the year a dedicated Sustainability Manager was appointed 2007 has seen the continued development of our Design Centre to complement and advance the work already undertaken by the of Excellence at Northampton.
Combined with this we have Product Development Department.
As a result of this new post, introduced a new Urban Design Training Programme developed in the Company is in a better position to ensure that sustainability conjunction with CABE and Oxford Brookes University.
issues are more fully addressed throughout all parts of the business.
Redrows Jupiter development in Birmingham was named as one Policy Progress of the best developments in CABEs third and final regional Our sustainability policy addresses six key performance areas.
mid-market housing design audit covering the East and West Midlands and the South West.
The development scored 80% and 1 Land was one of only two out of 100 developments assessed to be Maximising land use and regeneration and encouraging biodiversity deemed very good.
76% 75%: 2006 of legal completions in 2007 were on brownfield Energy efficiency is also a key part of our design philosophy.
is currently measured using the Governments recommended system for energy ratings for dwellings, the Standard Assessment 2007 saw Redrow Regeneration plc deliver its first legal Procedure SAP.
Under the latest version, SAP 2005, dwellings completions and the Barking Lifelong Learning Centre.
This are rated from zero to 100, where a rating of zero is very poor and flagship scheme is transforming Barking Town Square, combining 100 is very good.
residential, office, retail and leisure buildings with quality open space.
The average rating for homes built in the year, across the full spectrum of our product range, excluding Debut, was 75.
Our Our Vision scheme at Devonport, being undertaken with innovative and energy conscious, first time buyer range, Debut English Partnerships, involves the regeneration of the former averages 82.
For comparison, the average SAP in England is 51 for Ministry of Defence stores enclave, to deliver a sustainable, Local Authority rented homes and 58 for homes in the private mixed use community to BRE EcoHomes Excellent standard.
This major regeneration project will deliver 463 new homes and 100,000 square feet of commercial space.
30 Corporate social responsibility review An Introduction to Redrow course being delivered by training@redrow at its dedicated centre at Tamworth.
3 Procurement the performance of each of our subsidiary companies is reported Enhancing the efficiency and ethics of procurement through partnering monthly to the Main Board.
Details of the progress being made in this area is also presented to the Environmental Corporate Redrow takes pride in that it is the only homebuilder represented Responsibility Committee.
in the membership of WWF UK-Forest Trade Network UK-FTN, working with the WWF to decrease the use of timber Our positive focus on Health and Safety across our operations has from unknown sources and increase the use of timber from known, once again been recognised by ROSPA, with a Gold Award being legal and certified sources.
achieved for the second consecutive year.
We will continue to work hard in the coming year to improve on all aspects of Information relating to the environmental performance of all of workplace Health and Safety.
You will find more information our materials and product suppliers has been obtained, to ensure about our Health and Safety performance at www.
co. uk in they are meeting their environmental obligations and can conform our Health and Safety Annual Report.
Additionally, every six months we carry out a comprehensive performance review of our suppliers, which 5 Marketing includes many aspects of performance, including the amount of Encouraging our customers to recognise the benefits delivered through packaging used in delivering materials to site.
sustainable development 4 Construction The lessons learned from our pioneering Debut product are now Achieving high quality construction, minimising risks to the being extended to our Signature product, where our customers can environment and maintaining high levels of Health and Safety now choose from a range of Green Options.
These include solar water heating, measures to reduce water consumption inside the This year we have undertaken our first calculation of direct carbon home, rainwater harvesting, more sophisticated temperature and emissions arising from our Group wide activities.
The calculation lighting controls to reduce energy consumption and composting covers electricity and gas usage at sites and offices, together with facilities.
fuel consumption for all plant and vehicles owned or controlled by Redrow.
This exercise will be repeated annually and allows us to Redrow believes that homebuilders have a key role to play in set year on year target reductions.
positively influencing our customers attitudes towards more environmentally friendly living.
To assist our customers we have Our Environmental Management System is based around the developed a Home User Guide highlighting the most efficient themes of preventing pollution, ensuring legal compliance, ways to use the heating system installed in their homes, tips on reducing resource use and minimising waste.
This year we have environmental best practice and information regarding the local introduced a robust internal auditing system for all sites, where community and environment, such as the location of nearby these issues are examined on a regular and continuous basis and recycling centres.
Corporate social responsibility review 31 Corporate social responsibility review Customers Redrow has long recognised the value of affordable, sustainable homes for its customers, as exemplified by our Debut product.
Five sites have now secured BRE EcoHomes excellent rating at St Davids Park, Flintshire: Buckshaw Village, Chorley: Castle Vale in Birmingham: Pavilion Lock, Stoke on Trent and Willans Green in Rugby.
Debut has also added to its impressive string of industry awards with the Welsh Business in the Community BITC Big Tick award for innovation, followed by highly commended runner-up in the national BITC awards.
Local Communities In addition to striving to create sustainable, mixed communities, Redrow is concerned to ensure that full consideration is given to integration of our developments into the existing community.
We are proud of our efforts to positively engage with communities at an early stage in the planning process to enable evolution of designs and solutions that meet the needs of both the existing and new communities.
At our Vision scheme in Devonport, a full time Community Children from CHICKS Country Holidays for Inner City Kids Liaison Officer has been employed directly by Redrow to act as a enjoying a respite break funded by the Redrow Foundation.
conduit between Redrow and the surrounding community.
The liaison officers role has been to keep the local community informed and form strong relationships with numerous 6 Customer Service stakeholders including local schools and community groups - their Providing high standards of customer service initial input helped to shape the way in which the site is being developed.
Our customer satisfaction level for our core new home range has increased to 78% 76%: 2006 and our recommendation level is Redrows belief that we have a wider role to play in the 82% 82: 2006.
For Debut, our innovative, first time buyer home community is supported by the Redrow Foundation.
This is an range, satisfaction is 94% and our recommendation level is 88%.
independent trust, launched in March 2006, and is particularly aimed at providing accommodation and related assistance, We are currently undertaking a comprehensive review of our including respite care, for children in need, the elderly, the sick or customer service to ensure continuing improvement in our infirm.
Redrow donated 241,000 to the Foundation in the year customers experience, through all stages of the purchasing process.
Communication Redrow recognises that CSR means engagement with key stakeholders to enable progressive performance improvement and to identify and address social, environmental and ethical risks associated with our business.
We have signed up to the NextGeneration Housebuilders Benchmarking Club, with the primary aims of: benchmarking our sustainability performance: ensuring we meet best practice: and participating in the networking opportunities that membership provides.
Throughout the year, we have worked to reinforce our relationships with all our key stakeholders.
Stockport Cerebal Palsy Society received a donation from the Redrow Foundation for the construction of a purpose built conservatory at Cheddle Lodge, Stockport.
32 Corporate social responsibility review Community Liaison There has been a full time Community Liaison Officer at Vision since the start of Redrows major regeneration project in Devonport.
This role has been important in bridging the gap between the community and the developers, ensuring that local views are heard and the community at large is engaged in what is happening on the development.
The Community Liaison Officer has worked with all sectors and age groups of the local population, including school children, local business and community groups: indeed anyone who is interested in the development and wishes to be involved.
Anne Tillet, Community Liaison Officer, presents a donation from Redrow to the Friends of Devonport Park.
Investors Suppliers and Subcontractors It is increasingly important for our investors, that Redrow takes Redrow seeks to deal with suppliers and subcontractors able to proper account of the impact of the business on the environment demonstrate their commitment to the environment through their across the Group as a whole and this year as well as undertaking own codes of practice.
A partnering approach is adopted that our first calculation of direct carbon emissions we have also taken clearly sets out the expectations from all parties and covers issues steps to reduce our carbon footprint.
We have recently negotiated such as sourcing of materials, transportation and delivery, a contract with Ecotricity for the supply of 100% renewable packaging, Health and Safety, workforce competency and training electricity to each of our principle Homes offices.
The transition and welfare as well as payment and pricing terms.
to this supply is expected to be completed shortly.
All subcontractors receive a copy of our Customer Service Employees Agreement and our Supplier Service Agreement with which they As part of Redrows continual investment in the training and agree to comply as part of the basis of the order.
In so doing, they development of our employees, delivered through our dedicated also agree to work in accordance with our Environmental Policies training centre at Tamworth, we are currently developing a and Procedures and within the conditions of Redrows membership focused training programme for CSR related issues.
Courses being of the WWF UK-FTN, as well as meeting our requirements for a developed encompass general environmental awareness, advice customer focused, professional service.
concerning the recently introduced Code for Sustainable Homes and guidance about environmental management on site.
These Summary courses are being designed to complement a range of existing The year has seen Redrow build upon the policies which underpin programmes, which include Urban Design, Health and Safety and our commitment to deliver against our CSR responsibilities and to staff development.
reduce the impact of our business on the environment.
We have the right policies, the right people and the flexibility to ensure To reinforce Redrows commitment to environmental awareness, that we continue to deliver within our fast changing and each of our principle offices has set up a Green Team led by a challenging business environment, into the future.
Champion to identify opportunities to reduce the impact of our business on the environment, to suggest appropriate improvement You will find more information about our Corporate Social measures and to action approved responses.
This activity is being Responsibility policies and practices on our website in the form of co-ordinated overall by our Sustainability Manager.
A CD is also available on request.
Redrow also recognises the importance of work-life balance for its employees and has recently introduced a package which includes the reduction of the working week by one hour and provision in Brian Duckworth the near future of a Childcare Voucher scheme.
Chairman Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate social responsibility review 33
