Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review People We continue to invest in the skills of our people through training@redrow and in 2007 provided over 5,000 training days from essential induction courses for new employees to more specific initiatives which support the quality of our business.
People our customers and to help secure this objective we have appointed The Redrow Team is an essential element in the delivery of our external specialists to review our approach in this aspect of our business objectives and the Board appreciates the commitment business and recommend ways of achieving further improvements.
they make to our performance.
We have an Executive team which has accumulated in excess of 130 years involvement in the Redrow has continued to deliver improvements in Health and development industry and a team of Managing Directors in our Safety in the last twelve months.
In 2007 we achieved a Gold operating companies with significant experience to take Redrow award for the second year running from the Royal Society for the forward.
As Principal Contractor there were no fatalities on our sites in 2007 2006: nil, no prosecutions for The labour market for high quality professional people continues Health and Safety issues 2006: nil, no Prohibition Notices to be tight within our sector and we recognise that stable teams 2006: 2 and only one Improvement Notice issued 2006: 1. are important in the efficiency and quality of our business.
The number of injuries reported under the Reporting of Injuries, As part of our review of our operational cost base we have Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR re-examined and adjusted our remuneration packages to ensure we stood at 41 2006: 40 and the level of injuries requiring first aid remain competitive in the marketplace.
This has been achieved reduced by 10%.
within our overall objective of maintaining Homes overheads in the new financial year in line with 2006 07.
To retain and motivate our employees, we continue to invest in the skills of our people through training@redrow with its dedicated facility at Tamworth.
In 2007, we provided over 5,000 training days from essential induction courses for new employees to more specific initiatives which support the quality of our business.
As part of our focus upon design, we are working with Oxford Brookes University and the Commission for Architecture in the Built Environment CABE to enhance the skills and awareness of key members of our team on how good design can be used to best advantage for Redrow.
Over 30 Assistant Site Managers have now been through, or are progressing with, our accreditation programme which includes the achievement of an appropriate NVQ qualification and which supports our objective of improving build quality.
In recent years we have worked hard on the quality of construction and we have experienced a significant improvement in standards relative to National House Building Council NHBC industry benchmarks.
We are also delighted that Mel Roscoe, Site Manager at Oakside Park, Kesgrave receiving we have seen a significant increase in the number of our Site his NHBC Pride in the Job award for the second year running.
Managers achieving NHBC Pride in the Job Awards in 2007.
Improving build quality is an important element in raising levels of customer satisfaction.
Our customer service surveys carried out by an independent research organisation showed that our satisfaction levels increased from 75% to 79% in 2007 and the proportion of customers who would recommend Redrow to a friend increased from 80% to 83%.
In 2007, five of our companies achieved satisfaction levels in excess of 85% and all but one company achieved a recommendation level of over 75%.
We recognise we have more to do in meeting the expectations of 22 Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 5,000 we delivered over 5,000 training days to our staff in the last twelve months.
Assistant Site Managers graduating with NVQ Level 3 in Construction Site Supervision, pictured with Construction Director Shaun Sumner top right.
Courses provided by training@redrow to equip our employees Achievements with the skills required in a modern development business The Group achieved a Gold Award in the Royal Society for the Protection of Accidents RoSPA Occupational Health and Sales & Customer Service Personal Skills Safety Awards for the second consecutive year.
This award is Health & Safety Management & Induction in recognition of our contribution to raising health and safety Construction standards across all our sites.
Additionally, every regional housing company within the Group has been awarded a British Safety Council BSC International Safety Award.
19% A record 12 Redrow site managers have secured NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This is a 70% increase on the previous years performance and demonstrates the progress Redrow is making in continually raising quality standards.
29% 24% 11 Redrow assistant site managers graduated this year from our unique training and development course, achieving NVQ Level 3 in Construction Site Supervision.
Now in its third year, the Assistant Site Manager Development Programme is part of our overall commitment to raising the competency of our 10% construction staff above the industry average, as well as 18% increasing employee retention and job satisfaction.
Redrows commitment to home growing a new generation of professional and accomplished site managers is further evidenced by the fact we now directly employ a record 70 apprentices within a variety of trades.
All 200 development sales consultants attended our second annual National Sales Training event and are now enrolled onto the Redrow Sales Accreditation Programme, providing courses and on-the-job training aimed at enhancing sales performance and customer service delivery.
Chief Executive and Finance Directors business review 23
