Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 21 Underlying revenue growth pharma advertising, with share gains MEDai, a provider of clinical outcome compensating for weaker markets.
analytics and risk identification and 6% management for both the payers and 5% 5% 5% Electronic products, such as the providers of healthcare.
4% MDConsult clinical reference product, are showing good double digit growth The outlook for Elsevier is positive.
The Evolve digital learning Revenue momentum is good with platform had a successful year with a successful publishing, strong renewals 40% increase in registered users.
New and growing digital product in 03 04 05 06 07 products were rolled out with very attractive markets.
The revenue positive market response.
These growth and continuous actions to included Mosbys Nursing Skills, improve cost efficiency is driving good endorsed by the American Association of underlying margin improvement.
Clinical Nurses, which offers detailed We look forward to another successful interactive guidance in over 500 skills year in Elsevier in 2008. drawn from our leading reference works.
At the British Medical Awards in www.
com September, we won more top awards for 8 our publishing than any other publisher.
In addition to investment in new publishing and digital solutions, we continued to expand our businesses in attractive high-growth segments through two highly complementary acquisitions in December: Clinical Practice Model Resource Centre CPMRC, a leading provider of decision support solutions for nurses and healthcare practitioners to improve patient care and safety: and, TRUSTED for students taking the Evolve Reach from Elsevier NCLEX exam.
The is an exam preparation tool programme provides which helps students immediate diagnostic reports prepare for NCLEX, the that identify areas requiring standardised exam that further study, and offers determines whether a remediation from leading candidate is prepared for Elsevier imprints, including entry-level nursing practice.
With a predictive accuracy of 97.4%, Evolve Reach is the best indicator of success Operating and financial review 22 Operating and financial review continued LexisNexis LexisNexis had a good year with a successful Total Solutions strategy both in the US and internationally and good growth in risk information and analytics markets % Revenue m change at 1,594 2007 2006 % constant 1,570 m m change currencies Revenue United States 1,113 1,129 1% 7% International 481 441 9% 10% 8% at constant currencies Total 1,594 1,570 2% 8% Adjusted operating profit 406 380 7% 14% 7% 06 07 underlying Adjusted operating margin 25.5% 24.2% 1.3pts 1.3pts Revenues and adjusted operating profits The growth in the attractive Total were up 7% and 12% respectively at Solutions markets is being accelerated constant currencies before acquisitions, through acquisition as well as organic and 8% and 14% including acquisitions.
In July, we acquired Juris, Adjusted operating profit m The overall adjusted operating margin which provides medium sized law firms 406 improved by 1.3 percentage points, with time and billing and other practice 380 reflecting the strong revenue growth and management solutions, to complement the actions taken to improve cost efficiency.
what we have achieved in small law firms with Total Practice Advantage.
In US Legal markets, strong In electronic discovery, we acquired 14% at constant currencies subscription renewals and additional Image Capture Engineering in June to online information and solutions sales, complement the Concordance business 12% partly held back by fewer large sized acquired last year.
These businesses are 06 07 underlying discovery cases, drove underlying being integrated within Total Litigator to revenue growth of 5%.
service the majority of electronic discovery needs and are steadily New Total Solutions products were migrating to a subscription model.
introduced throughout the year in the core areas of litigation, client In US Corporate and Public Markets, development, practice management, and underlying revenue growth was 6%.
Total Practice Advantage, with Whilst the news and business a series of releases in 2007, has seen information business is slower growing, particular success providing small law we saw strong demand in risk firms with practice management and management and in processing higher client development tools in one volumes for the US patent and integrated easy to use solution.
The Risk Information Total Solutions are also growing well and Analytics business again saw such as Total Litigator, combining case double-digit revenue growth and further management tools, document and good margin expansion driven by the evidence repositories, discovery tools, file continued strength of the market and serve applications, and research.
combined with leading technology and
