Corporate responsbility 38 Corporate responsibility CEO Sir Crispin Davis, with executives Corporate responsibility is our business We believe success means achieving our representing all major business functions, met mid and end year to review CR policies, business goals through responsible and sustainable action.
We aim to be a leader in objectives and achievements.
our sector recognised for: profitable, ethical, innovative, business performance: positive We continued to take proactive steps on CR legislation, consulting with the UK engagement with stakeholders including shareholders, employees, and communities: government on its carbon reduction commitment.
We also participated in Respect enhancing the positive impact of what we do and limiting any negative consequences, Table with leading European companies and Margot Wallstrm, Vice President of the including on the environment.
HINARI European Commission, to develop a road With an Elsevier grant of map to Copenhagen, where a successor to This dedication is evident in our efforts to $80,000, the Medical meet our 2007 corporate responsibility CR the Kyoto Protocol climate change agreement Library Association will be formulated in 2009: see objectives, framed against Reed Elseviers provided training on the Vision Statement.
HINARI, AGORA, and OARE online science initiatives to Reed Elsevier is committed to making a real Through HINARI Health InterNetwork librarians in Asia, Africa Access to Research Initiative, run by the contribution to society around the world and Latin America.
World Health Organization, we provide institutions in developing countries free or Use Reed Elsevier CR Forum to monitor CR risks, policy, and programmes low cost access to 1000 health research journals.
In 2007, nearly one million Two meetings in 2007: ongoing engagement with members downloads were made from Elsevier publications.
Similarly, with AGORA Access Continued proactive steps on CR to Global Online Research in Agriculture, offered by the UN Food and Agricultural legislation Ongoing legislative reviews, e. g. on Organization, Elsevier gave students, researchers, and academics in 67 developing antitrust, governance, environment countries, free or low cost access to 1,175 agricultural and related journals over 50% of New approaches to UN Global Compact UNGC promotion and involvement the total journals available through AGORA.
Elsevier is also a founding member of OARE Support for Dutch and Eastern European Networks, including Online Access to Research in the Environment providing leading environmental presentations and consultation Lead Communications Working Group science to 375 qualifying institutions.
of UK Network In-kind production assistance with We provide our professional customers with high value information-driven solutions that UNGC Leaders Summit DVD have an impact on their effectiveness Further programmes that advance access to product for disadvantaged Continued promotion of Group Editorial Policy communities Commitment to UN programmes Promoted in the Reed Elsevier CR Newsletter: CR update presentations: until 2015 intranet features To make a real contribution to society we work to ensure good governance and spread Maintaining the integrity of what we produce is paramount.
We promote the Reed Elsevier best practice.
Accordingly, the Reed Elsevier Corporate Responsibility Forum, chaired by Editorial Policy which maintains our Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 39 Earthwatch We work with Earthwatch to promote environmental conservation and education.
In 2007, eight employees from across the UK joined Dr. Kevin Robinson and his team from the Cetacean Research and Rescue Unit to collect critical data on whale and dolphin populations on the northeast coast of Scotland.
commitment to editorial freedom and world, it comprises full texts from 22 of the 2007 Environmental original, accurate, fair and timely world's major patent authorities.
Our publications and products Energy: 190mWh regularly receive awards for excellence.
In We proactively manage our portfolio of 3 Water: 370m 2007, the Periodical Publishers Association businesses... We are committed to building Waste: 12t awarded Reed Business Computer Weekly sustainable, leadership positions 55% recycled its Editorial Campaign of the Year for a review C02 Emissions of the UK governments National Health Active stakeholder engagement and GHG Protocol : Service IT investment programme.
assessment Scope 1 12t C02 Regular meetings with investors, staff, Scope 2 73t C02 We are passionate about understanding and governments, and NGOs Scope 3 36t C02 responding to customer needs.
We provide Benchmarking surveys e. g. Production Paper 90t authoritative information and technology DowJones Sustainability Index and Initial results, 000s based solutions across key stages of our Business in the Community CR Index customers workflow Continue to advance environmental goals New group-wide approach to customer by key facility Environmental Targets feedback Regular calls annual meetings with 10% reduction in REcommend survey programme global Environmental Champions energy and water established:100,000 customers World Environment Day focus on by 2008 from a reached to track Net Promoter scores water: events throughout group 2003 baseline Divisional initiatives including active In addition to on-going customer listening, gREen Teams 10% reduction in C02 we launched REcommend across the emissions by 2010 divisions by surveying 100,000 customers Gain further understanding of certified from a 2003 baseline to obtain Net Promoter scores, a simple sustainable paper used in our products 2% reduction in measure of whether our customers will and set targets for improvement transport emissions recommend us.
Action plans have been Founder member of Publishers for by 2008 from a developed around results and the Responsible Environmental Paper 2005 baseline programme will continue into 2008.
Sourcing PREPS Database to grade 50% recycling target papers on forest sources, harvesting, for all UK waste We focus on innovation and content and recycling by 2009 development and mastery of digital technology All Reed Elsevier paper on PREPS system training for key group paper Continued Customer Focus through purchasers value-added online services Numerous products and services Expand external assurance of developed environmental data to US locations Ernst & Young assured 2006 US and As our customers workflows rapidly migrate UK environmental data online, we are linking essential content with New Environmental Workbook for digital delivery, creating innovative products capturing environmental data and solutions that can transform their effectiveness.
Illustrative is LexisNexis Total Expand phased approach to Patent, a single, online source for worldwide environmental certification to Reed patent content, launched in 2007.
With a 25% Elsevier headquarters and develop increase in the volume of worldwide patent model for use at other locations filings, it helps professionals stay current on Environmental Certification the issues.
Designed with input from Committee established intellectual property experts from around the Corporate responsbility 40 Corporate responsibility continued Days of Caring During global RE Cares Month in September, 146 volunteers from LexisNexis Charlottesville completed 12 projects at a local primary school, including painting a map of the United States in the playground.
Employees joined 2,400 volunteers from local businesses and organisations as part of this community Day of Caring.
Energy audit by Carbon Trust of Improved Group Health and Safety data seven key UK locations collection: peer benchmarking: develop LexisNexis: all UK sites to Phase 1 group Health and Safety Policy BS 8555 certification Improved methodology comparing lost time incidents and illnesses: Carry out carbon footprint exercise for media sector comparisons one product line Health and Safety Policy launched Comparison of carbon footprint, print vs online, at Elsevier energy Following the 2006 Global Employee Opinion journal Fuel survey, we conducted a listening tour to understand the keys to success at highProactively managing our businesses means scoring locations.
The research was listening to stakeholders.
Their concern over published as Bright Ideas: Creating Great our involvement in organising defence Places to Work, and distributed to all senior exhibitions led to our decision in the year managers.
Common success themes to withdraw from the sector.
included opportunities for development: clear communication: camaraderie: shared 2007 Health & Safety We are passionate about building a purpose and support: transformational Awareness Poster sustainable business.
We are working to limit leadership: and humility.
As one employee our impact on the environment through noted, her manager knows everyone by energy and water use, waste generation, name: he knows little background things business travel, transport, paper, production about people which shows he genuinely technologies and in our supply chain.
of our 2007 water reduction campaign, we held a group competition won by Elsevier Our global health and safety awareness Oxford.
They pledged to explore using rain week, focused on wellness at the water to maintain their grounds and, by workstation, was launched with a new turning off an exterior fountain, they reduced website, Health REsources, containing data their annual water consumption by 12%.
on our health and safety performance, advice and suggestions, and useful links.
There were no breaches of international, national or other environmental regulations At all levels we demand the highest in the period.
standards of ourselves: we are driven by strongly held values We are dedicated to creating a great place to work for all employees.
We are a high Bring total trained on the Code of performance driven organisation Ethics and Business Conduct to 20,000 employees between 2006-2007 Build on organisational development Nearly 21,000 employees trained initiatives Enhanced intranet services to promote Grow and deepen RE Cares Programme mobility and Reed Elsevier Job Board in major business locations Management Development 2007 RE Cares Challenge involves Programme reaches more of top 200 staff globally Regional meetings in Asia, the US and Implementation of improvements Europe: virtual meetings bi-monthly relating to 2006 Group Employee Opinion Survey Build on developing world initiatives Listening Tour of high scoring Expanded support for BookAid locations completed Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 41 International included school library In 2007 we made the position of running development programme in Namibia our SRS Socially Responsible Supplier programme full time and expanded the SRS 8% increase in non-cash contributions database to include new categories like time, products and services exhibition venues and call centres.
We Increase of 23% over 2006 established China product safety standards for book production covering ink, varnish, While advancing training on the Reed spiral wire, lamination, and glue.
Elsevier Code of Ethics, we have also developed specialised courses in important We work with suppliers to ensure areas like data protection, doing business compliance with the Reed Elsevier Supplier with governments, harassment awareness Code of Ethics, driving good practice through and discrimination.
If there is noncompliance, we set remediation plans with We donated 2.3 million in cash donations suppliers.
In the year, the inability of a printer including matching gift programmes and in Asia to correct issues in their agreed the equivalent of 1.4 million in gifts of remediation plan led to their suspension as products, services and staff time in 2007. a preferred supplier.
They are now working During RE Cares Month in September we to correct problems so as to resume their held a first-ever group book drive resulting in working relationship with us.
20,000 books for charities around the world.
We deliver long-term superior value creation We support key partners like Book Aid for our shareholders through outstanding International BAI, and for a fourth year execution and delivery of our vision helped to build a reading culture in and strategy Namibia.
The project has encompassed new tools for librarians in their efforts Our efforts on behalf of stakeholders, to encourage child reading and the including shareholders, were recognised development of in-school libraries to in the year with the following awards: spur literacy and long-term educational opportunities.
We meet regularly with BAI VBDO Supply Chain Award to brainstorm on how we can advance their Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes: priorities.
In 2007 this included providing Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes funding to repair their warehouse roof, AA Combined Environmental IVA rating damaged during a summer storm.
from Innovest, ranked 1st in media sector We are one company, benefiting from CSR National Business Awards Finalist shared philosophy, skill sets, resources Achieved gold overall ranking in and synergies Business in the Communitys 2006 Corporate Responsibility Index Advance Socially Responsible Supplier Charities Aid Foundation Community SRS programme data collection: Investment Award, commended establish dedicated resource: engage on central procurement efforts Our full CR Report, with 2007 data 8 SRS Manager in place supported by across the spectrum of our activities, three divisions along with objectives for the year ahead, Collaboration with business units on will be available in April 2008 at new database tools www.
