Directors Report Business Review Corporate responsibility Driving competitive advantage We increasingly view Corporate Responsibility as central to our business strategy and as a critical driver to the sustainable growth of our business.
The global footprint which Regus has established clearer recognition of their efforts would lead to brings with it considerable responsibilities, and greater employee CR engagement.
we are committed to managing our business Environment and sustainability: a core priority in a responsible manner, continually identifying amongst customers and suppliers is a clearly opportunities to make a positive contribution communicated policy, and the implementation to our local communities.
of simple tools, systems and processes for Corporate Responsibility Committee reducing the Groups environmental impact.
In 2007, we established a formal Corporate Business Partners: a desire in both our customers Responsibility CR Committee to oversee CR and suppliers for building longer term relationships strategy, encompassing members from a variety which support their business and values.
The Committees aim is Community: clearer and more dened policies focused on ensuring that we take a sustainable need to be implemented with respect to approach to business, considering the philanthropic and community initiatives and economic, social and environmental impacts ensuring that these are communicated.
which matter most to our key stakeholders.
Accordingly, partly as a result of this research The remit of the Committee is primarily to provide and partly due to our underlying commitment strategic direction and guidance on all aspects to positive development in CR, we anticipate of business practice and responsibility and that our CR Priorities for 2008 will include: ensure consistent implementation.
Establishing and communicating a more formal The Corporate Responsibility Committee will CR Framework meet at a minimum quarterly to: Implementing an updated environmental policy Assess social, environmental and ethical risks and guidelines Develop CR strategy Continuing the development of employee Review our social, ethical and environmental talent planning appraisal processes and policies and practices career development initiatives Identify opportunities to improve the Continued customer focus maintaining high effectiveness and sustainability of the business quality services and expanding our offerings Review, agree, monitor and report on corporate Identifying more clearly and consistently the responsibility Key Performance Indicators core philanthropic and community initiatives Improve stakeholder awareness Regus is committed to supporting In 2007, we also commissioned an independent, People third party report focused on identifying what CR With over 4,700 employees throughout our practices could lead to a sustainable competitive 70 countries, most of whom are interfacing advantage.
This report was primarily focused directly with our customers, our people are on our UK operations, but its core outputs are critical to our success.
Our goals are aligned scalable to our global network.
The underlying with those CR practices most likely to drive conclusions of the report identied the following: employee engagement.
People: for employees, career advancement, Our primary aim remains to maximise and structured training, work life balance and a develop the skills of our team members, 18 www.
com providing clear opportunities for career Business Partners advancement and recognition whilst at the same Our customers are our business and developing time ensuring an appropriate work life balance.
long term relationships with them is a critical The global roll out of Management training for facet of our strategy.
We have continued to our Area Directors in 2008, coupled with more monitor the levels of customer satisfaction local HR and supervisory training, demonstrates throughout our business via questionnaires our commitment to a clearly dened training and exit interviews and this feedback forms framework, driven by a growing global training an integral part of our centres ongoing team.
Over the past 18 months, investment in this performance tracking.
Our mystery shopper training has exceeded 750,000, or approximately initiative continued throughout 2007, and has 750 for each of the team members who have driven tangible improvements in performance, received this formal training.
attitudes and behaviour of customer-facing staff by providing tangible feedback about each sales A Group-wide Code of Ethics sets out a number persons customer handling technique.
It has of fundamental principles which all our companies also allowed us to embed greater consistency and employees are required to follow, and are in the standards in and around each centre.
complemented by local practices which recognise regional specics.
We continue to operate a We also promote long term relationships with condential whistle blowing service to support our business partners and our operations work employees who want to eliminate wrongdoing closely with suppliers to maintain the service in the workplace, and monitor the findings of expected by our customers.
this service both immediately at a local level Community and quarterly at a senior management level We have continued to be active supporters of to ensure an adequate response.
local communities and charities, be this through Environment and sustainability direct fundraising initiatives by our employees, The focus of our environmental efforts continues through reduced price space provision or via to be to minimise potentially harmful impacts other means.
We are focused on providing of our business wherever we can.
Although our longer term benets through maintaining an operations already have a limited impact due to ongoing relationship with our charities and the nature of our business, the product offerings communities, which allows the Company, we can deliver have potentially significant participants and recipients to benefit from clearly incremental positive impacts to the environment: experiencing and developing these partnerships.
Video-conferencing: we commenced an Direct beneciaries of Company and employeeassessment of the number of air miles saved led initiatives during the year have included: during 2007 and estimate that over 10 million Great Causes and Debra via the 2007 London air miles were saved during the last five Triathlon 15,000 of direct contributions months of 2007 Worldwide Fund for Nature and Make a Regional, National, Global networks: with an Wish Foundation, Australia ofce and service increased focus on mitigating pressure on benets at reduced or no cost existing transport infrastructures, our network The Rainbow Childrens Hospice, UK all funds of ofces regionally and globally continues from recycling toner cartridges to offer significant scope for reducing the environmental impact of longer distance St Michaels School, Uganda computers journeys and times for schools Ofces: we have continued to push for enhanced use of low-wattage light bulbs, a greater array of recycling options and the sourcing of energy and utilities from suppliers focused on energy conservation standards throughout our network Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
