Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Responsibility our new vision and values statement, updated our code CORPORATE of ethics and published a statement of principles, and reviewed our competition antitrust law training, RESPONSIBILITY supported by an online training programme completed Over the last three years, our approach to corporate by over 1,000 managers and sales staff to date.
responsibility has developed alongside our continuous process of business improvement.
We have seen ENVIRONMENT improvements in central activities such as our governance This year, improvements in a number of areas have resulted processes and our procurement and health and safety in both cost efficiencies and environmental improvements.
management as well as business-based activities We invested in new textiles and washroom services developing colleague engagement, enhancing employees processing facilities and introduced a new and more efficient skills, understanding customers expectations and HGV fleet in City Link supported by introducing Driver improving environmental management.
They represent Assessors, helping HGV drivers to drive more economically.
a global commitment aligned with local progress.
Our total CO emissions in 2007 were 258 million kilogrammes 2 Significant progress was made in 2007.
Our corporate 271 million kilogrammes in 2006, equivalent to 3,274 responsibility performance indicators are shown below: kilogrammes for each employee 3,870 kilogrammes in 2006.
KPI 2007 2006 Change CO emissions 3,274 3,870 15.5% improvement 2 We have also improved the accuracy of our reporting.
kilogrammes per employee 91.5% of data is based on actual figures 2006: 83%.
29% Water consumption 14.40 14.91 3.4% improvement litres used per kilogramme of our CO emissions came from textiles processing plants, 2 of textiles washed where there have been significant process improvements Work-related accidents 222 244 9% improvement since 2004 reducing both CO and water consumption 2 like-for-like basis as shown below: UKRIDDORreporting Health & Safety scorecard 76% Not Not applicable CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS MILLIONS KG management system launched EUROPEAN LAUNDRY PLANTS % business units 2004 2005 2006 2007 populating this system 90 Total colleague engagement score 72 68 6% improvement 80 surveyed across 70 Rentokil and Ambius 60 50 Details can be found in the full Corporate 40 Responsibility Review 2007, which can be accessed 30 via www.
Following are highlights 20 from each key reporting area.
10 0 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Major European plants Our Company Executive Board reviews all aspects of All European plants corporate responsibility.
This year, we have articulated 45 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 45 28 3 08 08:38:01 PUTTING VALUES INTO ACTION Our UK shared service centre in Dudley West Midlands opened in 2007.
It provides customer, financial and human resources services for our UK operating businesses.
From the outset, the management has explained our companys values to the centres employees visit www.
com for more information, and demonstrated how they are expected to deliver them to customers.
As part of its role, the centre provides support for customers with improved IT systems linked to improved management processes, covering customer billing and tracking of customer complaints.
These improved processes means that better measurement can be achieved which leads to improved practices and customer satisfaction.
indd 46 28 3 08 09:26:49 Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Responsibility WATER CONSUMED - LITRES PER KILOGRAMME OF TEXTILES PEOPLE WASHED EUROPEAN PLANTS Our focus on our people activities is in two areas improving 2004 2005 2006 2007 the quality of engagement and developing their skills.
16.50 16.00 COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT 15.50 In late 2006, Rentokil and Ambius businesses undertook 15.00 Your Voice Counts a colleague engagement survey.
14.50 Repeated in 2007, it was communicated in 16 different 14.00 13.50 languages, reaching over 8,000 people and achieving 13.00 responses of 93%.
Significantly improved results were 12.50 achieved overall colleague engagement score improved by Major European plants 6%.
Similar surveys have been undertaken in 2007 in Initial All European plants Textiles in France and City Link, where a high percentage Also, our businesses have focused on delivering technical of employees regard themselves as a supporter of change advances that improved product stewardship and provided at a time of considerable change.
environmentally friendly services to customers.
DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES SKILLS In Pest Control, we established a global technical services The Talent Development programme, introduced in 2006, team, covering four key areas fumigation, termites, focusing on leadership development, is being rolled out authorised product list and technical competence.
across individual businesses appropriate to their needs.
Benefits include an authorised product list ensuring best In City Link, this includes cultural change training, technical practice and fumigation based on risk hierarchy reflecting its intent to be employer of choice in its sector.
minimising risks of use of toxic substances.
As part of the approach to improve the quality of our technical services, Initiated in 2004, Initial Facilities Services national we are the only service provider to have successfully contract with the Learning and Skills Council covers registered carbon dioxide under the Biocidal Products cleaning staff in the UK and employees in Initial Catering Directive, due for mandatory application in 2010.
Services and Initial Hospital Services.
In 2007, over 650 people in these companies were working towards NVQ To help customers to adopt more environmentally friendly or Skills for Life training qualifications.
Initial Facilities practices, we have launched a new service through EnviroServices is also participating in the Asset Skills Women Fresh which can significantly reduce urinal water usage.
and Work initiative, supporting a total of 150 supervisors Rentokil has been appointed as one of the preferred to improve their literacy or numeracy skills.
In addition, suppliers to the 2008 Beijing Olympics a key factor was our Ambius is introducing its Ambius University to deliver unique indoor fumigation technology, using chemicals with high quality training in multiple languages.
In Hong Kong we are working with the Government to enhance public health, involving the The business was one of the first companies to sign recruitment and training of 1,200 people as pest controllers.
up to the UK Governments Skills Pledge.
Supporting Initial Facilities Services customers to reduce waste generation, we have introduced Ecologic enabling customers to undertake waste audit, waste planning, tracking and reporting.
indd 47 28 3 08 09:27:08 Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Responsibility CUSTOMERS A key element of customer service includes high quality Our individual businesses are provided with guidance customer communications, including online.
Today, to make sure they have a thorough and practical we have 75 new websites in local languages supporting understanding of our policies on ethical business behaviour our customers.
towards both customers and suppliers.
SUPPLY CHAIN Extensive use is made of customer surveys to monitor and In 2007, we refined our procurement approach to offer enhance customer relationships.
The Initial Textiles and greater structure and co-ordination of purchasing across Washrooms division undertook its first pan-European the group.
This builds upon best practice approaches customer survey in 2007, building on its French businesss such as those of Initial Textiles in France, which has a experience of undertaking surveys for 20 years.
Some 31,000 supplier contract that requires its suppliers to meet ethical, customers in 16 countries were contacted to participate in environmental and labour standards, and uses WethicA the survey.
Overall, customer satisfaction was well above 7 World Ethical Audits supplier assessments and requires on a scale from 1 to 10. its suppliers to provide OEKOTEX certification, providing traceability for textile products.
The business was the In early 2007, the rebranding of the plant rental business first French textiles services company to be certificated to Ambius was based on customer outputs from workshops, as a member of Fibre Citoyenne Fibre Citizen identifying opportunities for service enhancements, encouraging sustainable development practices service proposition and naming.
These inputs built upon in the textiles industry.
the longstanding customer survey experience in Ambiuss North America operation its most recent survey was of The principles behind our new procurement approach nearly 6,000 customers whose results became part of are a global approach, implemented locally with consistent its continuous improvement programme.
quality and governance, as well as a global sourcing capability in Asia Pacific.
The benefits of the approach In 2007, we opened our new multi-million pound UK Shared will be both cost effective purchasing and a better Services centre, offering improved management processes, governance and procedures framework.
such as customer billing and tracking of customer complaints.
These processes included improved customer HEALTH AND SAFETY service delivery measurements.
Health and safety is one of our highest priorities.
All multinational companies are challenged to ensure their legal Focus on customer service can require restructuring responsibilities are addressed in a consistent and cost of service delivery teams.
This was the case with our effective management approach.
UK Pest Control business, which launched a dedicated High Dependency technician team focused on the needs To address this challenge, our new on-line business of specialist sectors, such as food and pharmaceutical scorecard system was introduced to provide assurance about companies.
Similarly demanding customer hygiene the effectiveness of our health and safety management, requirements led Initial Textiles in France to achieve drive performance improvement and provide assurance certification of its operations to RABC Risk Analysis for to customers.
In its first year, the scorecard was rolled Bio Contamination standards the first and only textiles out to 76% of companies in the group.
organisation in France to be certified to RABC standards.
indd 48 28 3 08 08:38:15 Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Responsibility We need also to manage the results of accidents that occur.
such as the Safer London Foundation.
Our Hong Kong Within the UK, a new programme Success is No Accident operation was awarded the Caring Company Award was introduced which helps understanding of accidents to recognise our contribution to Hong Kong communities.
and their causes, and ensures more effective referral for In Taiwan, where there had been an outbreak of Dengue rehabilitation services.
In 2007 this programme won the Haemorrhagic Fever, our local pest control employees Rehabilitation Initiative of the Year Employer Award.
conducted free inspections and treatment for the control of mosquitoes in local schools.
The trend for the number of UK reportable incidents RIDDOR to improve continued with a 9% like-for-like Our most effective community initiatives tend to be those reduction in incidents, and the RIDDOR trend remains where employees are actively engaged in long-lasting positive, as shown below.
RIDDOR REPORTABLE INCIDENT The Daintree Rainforest Rescue sponsorship programme in RENTOKIL INITIAL UK FOR 2006 2007 Queensland has been supported by our Australian business 2006 2007 for several years.
We participated in their buy back and OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP protect forever with the purchase of a 17,500 square metre 50 block of rainforest and provide support through a wide 45 range of initiatives.
40 For three years, we have supported the Thusanang 35 TRENDLINE Development Centre in South Africa, through the 30 donation of a 21-acre property to develop community 25 projects.
Its main beneficiaries are the squatters in the 20 Olivienhoutbosch community.
In recognition of our FREQUENCY commitment to this project, the business was recently Our UK companies continued to be successful in the Royal presented with a Merit Award Certificate for Devoted Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA awards, and Unselfish Service above Self.
We also support The with City Link gaining a total of seven RoSPA Gold Medals.
Zenzeleni Trust to provide support and benefit for HIV AIDS infected or affected colleagues.
The business and COMMUNITIES employees provide funding.
Thirty-four volunteers have Our community activities are led at a local level, and focus received training at HIV AIDS workshops, to enable them on activities which benefit their local community and meet to assist HIV AIDS affected and infected colleagues their business needs and strategy.
Charitable cash donations amounted to 107,000 in 2007 2006: 198,000, largely as a result of our matched giving scheme.
Alongside these donations, we actively support bodies that aim to improve the quality of life in our society, 49 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 49 28 3 08 10:09:36 Rentokil Initial plc Board of Directors SENIOR MANAGEMENT MARK BOYLE Group Strategy and Development Director Aged 47.
Formerly Corporate Development Director of Compass Group PLC having previously spent 14 years in banking with Lloyds 09 02 Bank International and Kleinwort Benson.
HENRY CHANDLER Divisional Managing Director, Textiles and Washroom Services Aged 47.
Appointed Divisional Managing Director in November 2006 having previously held executive responsibility for Electronic Security, City Link and Facilities Services.
Joined in 1996 with the acquisition of BET where be was the chief executive of the Style Conferences business.
PETAR CVETKOVIC Divisional Managing Director, City Link 01 Aged 46.
Previously Chief Executive Officer of Target Express, acquired by Rentokil Initial plc in November 2006.
Before 07 joining Target Express he held senior management positions in a number of leading logistics and transport companies including Norbert Dentressangle, Christian Salvesen and SEI Securicor DHL.
ANDY HOBART Divisional Managing Director, Pest Control, Ambius and Hygiene Aged 45.
Previously managing director of RAC RBS Joint Venture company Lex Transfleet and prior to that held a number of senior management positions within the BOC Group.
ANDY KEMP Group HR Director Aged 57.
Previously Group HR Director of Aegis Group plc, News International, TDG and Bovis International.
Before joining Bovis he held a number of HR appointments in the British Army at the rank of captain and major.
BRYAN KINSELLA Chief Informatiion Officer Aged 51.
Formerly, Senior Vice President and chief information officer of the Society of International Telecommunications and Aeronautics having previously held board positions at Vertex part of United Utilities and Computer Science Corporation and executive roles at ASDA and International Computers.
DAVID LIU Regional Managing Director, Asia Pacific Aged 53.
Previously headed Aegis Media, Asia Pacific which had operations in 14 countries across the region.
Before this held positions with Saatchi and Saatchi, Bozell and McCann-Erickson.
PETER LLOYD Divisional Managing Director, Facilities Services Aged 57.
Joined in 1986 having sold his retail cleaning company to the group in 1985.
Prior to current role, appointed managing director of UK Cleaning in 2002.
indd 50 27 3 08 03:00:20 05 03 08 04 06 DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY 01 WILLIAM RUCKER 04 DUNCAN TATTON-BROWN 07 PETER LONG Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 44.
Chief Executive of Lazard & Co Ltd in Appointed a director in July 2005.
Group fi finance director Appointed a director in October 2002.
Chief executive the UK, Deputy Chief Executive of European Investment of Kingfi sher plc, having been previously fi finance director of TUI Travel PLC.
Non-executive director of Debenhams Banking and a Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC.
He was previously chief fi financial offi cer of PLC.
Formerly chief executive of Sunworld Limited.
The Lazard in 1987 from Arthur Andersen.
An independent Virgin Entertainment Group.
An independent senior independent non-executive director and fulfi lling non-executive director.
the duties of Chairman from 20 March 2008 until completion of the annual general meeting in 2008.
02 PETER BAMFORD 05 BRIAN MCGOWAN Non-Executive Director Chairman Resigned 19 March 2008 08 ALAN GILES Aged 53.
Appointed a director Non-Executive Director executive director of Woolworths plc and Chairman in October 1996 and non-executive chairman in July Aged 53.
Chairman of The Key Revolution.
Formerly chief marketing offi cer 2004.
Chairman of UMECO plc and Catalyst Corporate of Fat Face plc and a director of the Offi ce of Fair Trading.
and director of Vodafone Group plc having held senior Finance LLP.
Formerly chief executive of Williams plc Formerly: chief executive of HMV Group plc, managing executive roles at Vodafone, including as chief executive and chairman of House of Fraser plc.
director of Waterstones, a director of WH Smith PLC and of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa operations a non-executive director of Somerfi eld plc and Wilson and chief executive of Vodafone UK.
An independent 06 ANDREW MACFARLANE Bowden plc.
Chief Financial Offi cer Aged 51.
Appointed a director in 09 RICHARD BURROWS 03 DOUG FLYNN August 2005.
He was previously group fi finance director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Resigned 19 March 2008 of Land Securities Group plc.
Prior to that he was chief Aged 62.
Appointed a director and chief executive in fi financial offi cer of Bass Hotels and Resorts.
Governor of the Bank of Ireland and April 2005.
He was previously chief executive of Aegis a non-executive director of Invensys plc.
a non-executive director of Pernod Ricard SA France, Group plc, having joined the board as a non-executive Cityjet Limited Ireland and Mey ki Turkey.
Prior to this, he spent 13 years with joint chief executive of Pernod Ricard SA and chairman the News Corporation Limited in the UK and Australia, and chief executive of Irish Distillers.
An independent latterly as managing director of News International Plc.
Before joining News Corporation Limited he was with PAUL GRIFFITHS ICI for ten years, working in Australia and Hong Kong Secretary in various management roles.
