8 Business review continued Our commitment to diversity has been formally recognised in several Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board which is chaired by the countries.
For example, in the UK, we have been awarded the Two Corporate Responsibility Manager and comprises customer, supplier, Ticks Disability Symbol User status, which recognises our good investor, employee and community representatives.
The Advisory practice in employing disabled people and reinforces our Board considers workplace, marketplace, environment and community commitment to creating a more diverse workforce.
Reuters is also a issues of relevance to our business and our employees.
The General member of the Employers Forum for Disability, and we have made use Counsel and Company Secretary represents CR on the GLT and to the of the services of both AbilityNet which supplies technology for Board.
As part of the risk management process which operates disabled users and Employment Opportunities a UK charity helping throughout the company, when relevant, environmental, social and people with disabilities to find and retain work.
Meanwhile, Reuters governance risks are identified and mitigation plans are put in place.
India has been awarded the Shell Helen Keller Award by the National We have begun to collect base data about our environmental impact Centre for the Promotion of Employment for Disabled People our carbon footprint to assess the risks and opportunities NCPEDP for its policies relating to the employment of people with presented.
In 2007 we set the following corporate responsibility objectives: We support the principles incorporated in South Africas Broad-Based Employees: to extend best-practice health-and-safety and familyBlack Economic Empowerment B-BBEE Act of 2003 and recognise friendly policies to our operations worldwide: our responsibilities as an employer to comply with both the spirit and the letter of all relevant B-BBEE legislation and development Marketplace: to roll out our Supply Chain Ethical Code in a phased initiatives.
We have a plan in place to achieve full compliance with the programme across our global supplier base for information on the Act, including employment equity, skills development, preferential code, see Supply chain on page 9 : procurement, enterprise development and corporate social investment.
Community: increase employee participation in our community volunteering programme to 20% of employees 2006 participation: 18% : 05 Our commitment to ethics and compliance We run our business with independence, freedom from bias, and Environment: implement our Environmental Management System: integrity.
We endeavour to do the right thing in all that we do, and adhering to the values set out in the Trust Principles, our code of conduct, and the companys policies, while we comply with the Governance: implement changes prompted by the Board different laws and rules that apply to us in the countries where we effectiveness review and refresh the governance framework at operate.
The companys policies cover a wide range of subjects and below-Board level.
include policies which give guidance to our employees in fair dealings with customers, suppliers, governments, competitors and each other.
During the year we met each of these objectives.
The policies are made available to employees through a policy gateway which is a centralised online depositary of the policies and For 2008, our objectives include: guidance on how to apply them.
Marketplace: Adoption by Global Sourcing of a set of CR objectives Nancy Gardner, Reuters Global Head of Compliance & General based on the UK Financial Services Purchasing Forum Principles: Counsel for Reuters America, leads our efforts to maintain an environment at Reuters that promotes and protects our values.
She Community: Increased employee participation in community engagement programmes with a particular focus across Europe, reports to the Audit Committee and periodically briefs senior management.
We have a global programme which is used to advise Middle East and Africa: our employees on key ethics and compliance areas through online Workplace: Implementation of a global diversity scorecard to training programmes and face-to-face sessions: provide an measure and monitor key objectives, including the percentage of anonymous and confidential system for staff to report concerns women and non-Anglo-Saxons as successors to senior management without the threat of retaliation: and investigate and take appropriate roles and turnover by gender: and measures when compliance issues are raised.
The efficacy of the programme as a whole is reviewed periodically.
On an individual level, Environment: Establishment of targets based on the data collected ethics and compliance aspects are incorporated into our performance within our Environmental Management System to reduce our carbon management system as we understand that each of us at Reuters footprint and resource usage.
must uphold the values and principles that have served Reuters well for so long.
Reuters is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the FTSE4Good Index, the Ethibel Sustainability Indices and the Ethibel Pioneer Investment Register.
Reuters Hong Kong has been accredited 06 Corporate responsibility with Caring Company 2007 08 status by the Hong Kong Council of In our reporting on corporate responsibility we have sought to comply Social Service in recognition of commitment to corporate citizenship with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible for the last five years.
In this annual report, environmental matters are covered in the Environmental impact section see page 9, social Reuters in the community matters are reported under People see page 6 and Reuters in the We support a variety of community initiatives and charitable causes community see page 8, and governance matters are covered in the through the work of Reuters Foundation and the volunteering efforts Governance section see pages 25-30. of our employees around the world.
com, which celebrated its 25th year in 2007, Corporate responsibility CR within Reuters is established as the way continues to focus on areas where Reuters expertise in information we carry out our business practices and conduct ourselves responsibly gathering and communications can be put to use in ways which will throughout our day-to-day activities, as determined by the Trust benefit the communities in which we operate across the world.
We steer our corporate responsibility strategy through our Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
