6 Business review continued Changing demographics, the expansion of the middle classes in 03 Markets emerging markets and new pools of investment money from More than 90% of our revenue comes from serving the rapidly sovereign wealth funds and petrodollars are all potential catalysts for evolving financial services marketplace, which includes investment and growth in asset and wealth management, particularly in Asia.
commercial banks, broker-dealers, asset and wealth managers, and commodities and energy traders.
Increasing importance of risk management and compliance A combination of increasingly complex financial instruments, The innovative financial markets are experiencing rapid structural changing investment strategies and regulation is highlighting the change.
We are adapting to meet their increasingly complex and importance of risk management, particularly on the buy side.
The credit crisis has reinforced the importance of consistent risk The media markets are also undergoing dramatic change.
We are management throughout financial institutions.
Demand for risk well-positioned to address these marketplace dynamics with our products and data for use in risk systems is expected to increase.
recent innovations in user-generated content, including blogs, and our work to reach the next-generation of media consumers through new Growth in new media business models is outpacing traditional media digital platforms such as mobile phones, online video and interactive Traditional media companies are continuing to embrace online television.
social networks, video and user-generated content to engage their audiences.
Financial markets We and our customers are affected by global economic trends and by Online audiences and advertising revenues are growing at a faster developments in the financial markets.
In this section, we provide a rate than revenues from traditional media.
high level macro-economic overview of 2007 as the backdrop to our performance during the year and highlight the key market trends we believe will influence our ability to achieve our goals in 2008.
04 People In previous years we have highlighted our employees adaptability, The global economy commitment and customer focus as key to our success and this has Driven by strong growth in China, India and Russia, the global proved to be the case again in 2007.
Our employees have reacted economy grew by over 5% in the first half of 2007.
Both the Eurozone very positively to the announcement of the proposed acquisition of and the US saw healthy growth into the third quarter, despite the Reuters by Thomson and despite the resulting uncertainty and credit crunch which developed quickly from a US sub prime issue change, 2007 proved to be a year in which we delivered an excellent into a global liquidity and confidence crisis, causing more widespread performance, thanks to the continued efforts of our employees.
With our business, markets and customers continuing to experience The outlook for financial services in 2008 varies significantly by region rapid change, we seek to employ people who are highly talented, and business asset class.
Worsening consumer sentiment indicates knowledgeable about the markets we serve, customer focused, that there is likely to be a downturn in the US.
Whilst this could in turn adaptable and committed to learning and development.
Our diverse trigger a global slowdown, the impact on Europe has not been as employee base comprises over 100 nationalities, reflecting the severe to date and emerging markets such as the Middle East, Russia different cultures and markets we operate in and bringing a range of and Asia with the exception of Japan are continuing to show strong perspectives that allow us to develop fresh and innovative ways to growth.
Financial services industry performance in 2007 Distribution of employees by region 2006 was another record year for financial services and 2007 began strongly.
Major stock market indices reached 6 year highs.
By April, 07 17,500 mergers & acquisitions M&A volume had already reached the previous 06 16,300 record of $2 trillion.
In the second quarter of the year, the industrys net 05 15,900 income levels surpassed previous records set in 2000 by 30%-40%, but this growth phase was less headcount intensive than previous ones, with Asia The Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa employment levels only just reaching 2000 levels.
Based an average number of employees for the year The summer brought a downturn in the credit markets as disruption in Employee communications the US sub prime mortgage market triggered an unexpected liquidity We use a variety of methods, including our intranet, to communicate squeeze.
The impact became visible in the third quarter: by early with our geographically diverse workforce about the companys January, mortgage and credit-related write-offs in the industry had strategy and priorities.
Our Daily Briefing provides an online surpassed $110 billion, triggering organisational changes and multimedia information service covering news and events about the headcount reductions.
Funding needs for some of the banks worst hit company and about our people.
The CEO hosts webcasts, by the credit crunch were met by Asian and Middle Eastern sovereign teleconference briefings and question and answer sessions for wealth funds.
employees, and also meets informally with groups of Reuters employees around the world.
Through the performance management Structural shifts & key market trends process, objectives in support of that mission are set for everyone.
Regular meetings are also held between management, employees Centres of activity are shifting and emerging financial markets are union representatives and other groups of employees so that deepening employees views can be taken into account when making decisions 2007 was the first year in which European corporate and investment which may affect their interests.
Reuters European Employee Forum banking revenues surpassed those in the US.
operates as a pan-European works council and the CEO and other executives meet regularly with the Forum.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 7 continued We have also concentrated on keeping all employees well briefed on Our Innovation programme provides opportunities for talented and developments on the proposed Thomson Reuters deal.
This has been ambitious employees to develop their entrepreneurial skills by taking achieved through regular bulletins covering progress on the on challenging roles as members and leaders of Innovation project regulatory process, integration planning and the appointments teams.
process for roles within Thomson Reuters.
We recognise that employees benefit from developing their Employee survey teambuilding and leadership skills through participation in activities We carry out annual employee surveys to identify issues that need to that strengthen the companys relationships with the communities in be addressed and areas to build on.
The findings are communicated which it is involved.
For more information, see Reuters in the to employees.
In 2006 we started to measure ourselves against the community on page 8. norms of high-performing companies.
In 2007 we narrowed the gap Employee safety against this challenging benchmark in ten out of the eleven areas We recognise that our health and safety risks are, in some cases, measured and did not lose ground on the eleventh.
The results of unusual and that we therefore need to take extra care and make extra our most recent survey November 2007 again showed year on year effort in mitigating these.
For a small but critically important part of improvement on our employee engagement index comprising what we do, our employees need to enter or move towards danger leadership, customer orientation, performance, employee zones to ensure they can report on events as they unfold.
Whilst we commitment and career development.
recognise the courage and professionalism shown by our employees We continue to have very strong scores on items related to the operating in conflict zones, we are clear in our method of operating, company brand and values with the three highest-scoring in our training and in our management that no story is worth a life or statements in 2006 also being the highest-scoring in 2007: I fully injury.
To mitigate these risks we provide leading edge, hostile support the values for which Reuters stands: 90% favourable environment training, protective equipment, travel-health and postresponse 2006: 90%, I am proud to be associated with Reuters: trauma training and support programmes to all employees who may 89% favourable response, 2006: 89% favourable response and need them.
Reuters provides a working environment that is accepting of ethnic For much of what we do, which is office-based, our health and safety differences: 90% favourable response 2006: 89%.
Highlighting areas risks are comparable to most office-based organisations and we act for improvement, employees reinforced the need for further accordingly, including reviewing policies regularly.
organisation simplification and improvements in performance management although there were improvements over the 2006 We have also reviewed and upgraded our readiness to protect scores in each area.
employee safety in the event of a range of situations from terrorist Employee engagement % activities to a potential avian flu pandemic.
07 62 Equal opportunities and diversity We have extensive fair employment practices in place and, with the 06 58 support of local diversity councils, we are working to make Reuters an 05 50 increasingly inclusive company.
To emphasise our commitment to diversity, during 2007 overall governance of our diversity agenda sat Talent and performance management and employee with the Group Leadership Team GLT.
development Our established company-wide talent review process covering over In 2007, GLT members concluded a year-long global reverse 6,000 people in 2007 involves management teams collectively mentoring programme in which they were paired with more junior reviewing their people.
In 2007, we also introduced a supplementary employees with the aim of increasing their awareness of diversity process to identify strongest talent at lower levels in the company a issues.
Individual GLT members committed to a range of actions population that had not previously been fully reached.
Together, these primarily related to recruitment and talent management.
In addition, activities enable us to identify our strongest talent and to create the programme has been extended to other groups and levels.
tailored plans to develop them.
We report regularly to the Board on Local diversity councils and affinity groups have driven a wide range of these activities and the Board also reviews our succession plans for activities, culminating in a diversity week with events in many major our 100 most critical roles, to ensure that we have sufficient depth and locations across the globe.
breadth in our most senior talent pools.
Our policy is that the selection of employees, including for 2007 saw renewed focus on career development.
All regions ran recruitment, training, development and promotion, should be formal events including workshops, panels and briefings, and new determined solely on their skills, abilities and other requirements materials were made available to employees through our company which are relevant to the job and in accordance with the laws in the intranet.
We have also shifted the focus away from formal learning country concerned.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed, events towards learning through work-related activities.
This has among other things, to ensure that people with disabilities, and other resulted in improvements in our employee survey scores two of the under-represented groups, are given the same consideration as others five questions which showed the biggest increases over 2006 were and enjoy the same training, development and prospects as other related to career development.
We have successfully retained staff who have become We also increased formal development for managers at all levels, and disabled, as well as integrating those who are disabled when they join enhanced the suite of eLearning modules to support managers who the company.
This has been achieved by using technological solutions have recently joined Reuters.
Management development was a and re-designing the way jobs are handled, enabling individuals to particular focus in Asia, driven by our growth in the region.
contribute actively to meeting the needs of our business.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
