RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our people Charitable activity Our employees are our largest resource and our most highly During 2007, our employees selected the NSPCC as valued asset.
We are proud of our people and the mixture our nominated charity with which we are working closely of talent and experience that they represent and we depend on a number of fundraising initiatives.
Not only does this on their skills and commitment to achieve our objectives.
encourage our staff to give something back to the Throughout 2007, we have taken further steps in ensuring communities in which they work, but also has a strong that Rightmove continues to be an environment in which cohesive effect in uniting our workforce behind one common we recruit top talent at all levels and in which our employees cause.
A charitable giving policy has also been established are nurtured to ensure that their skills and knowledge are which aims to provide a degree of matching for money continuously developed.
Our cultural uniqueness is bolstered raised through employee fundraising endeavours.
Since by an open and honest communication environment and September 2007 alone we have raised over 4,000 for our through investment in ensuring that all employees have nominated charity through a number of staff initiatives a profound understanding of Rightmoves core values and including an all employee competition to win a director for goals.
This is achieved through a combination of off-site the day for our most effective fundraising project.
Moreover, residential training, ongoing coaching and mentoring.
Staff we continue to encourage all our employees to devote time opinions are frequently sought through regular staff forums and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of particular with senior managers and employee online surveys.
Being importance to them as individuals.
During 2007 the very an online company, communication with all employees considerable majority of staff have been active in raising can easily be achieved by regular emails and the use of the money or supporting the fundraising activities of others.
Over the course of 2007, we have invested in our employee benets programme and introduced a range Environment of enhancements which, amongst others: support Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact.
parents in balancing responsibility to their children with Since our operation is primarily ofce-based, the direct their commitment to a rewarding and challenging career: environment impact is relatively low.
Indeed Rightmoves encourage and promote healthy living and taking business creates opportunities to reduce the overall responsibility for individual well-being: and support and environmental harm associated with a variety of aspects of encourage employees to invest for their retirement.
We will the whole home hunting process and even home ownership continue over the next year to explore and implement new more generally.
and innovative ways to drive our approach to developing Traditional ways of nding a home tend to involve large and rewarding our people.
amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and applicants through the post or leaet drops by agents.
We take a proactive approach throughout our Rightmove reduces the need for these media and the recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove takes hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce, and this is care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or total number of pages that need to be printed out in those potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
to their race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, Enhanced information on properties also reduces the religion or similar belief, connections with a national minority, amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties sexual orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital that rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion status, membership or non-membership of a trade union, of viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted disability, or any other classication as prescribed by law.
viewings has an environmental benefit.
20 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Health and safety Rightmove has worked hard to increase the number of The Group considers the effective management of health photographs of each property and has introduced more and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
comprehensive maps and aerial photographs which help Over the course of 2007, we have invested additional home hunters to identify the specic location of a property.
resources in training our employees in re safety procedures More high quality information presented about properties and first aid skills.
The Groups ongoing policy on health reduces waste.
and safety is to provide adequate control of the health and During 2007 we have also introduced functionality on the safety risks arising from work activities, through further Rightmove.
co. uk website for our customers to display Energy consultation with and training of employees, the provision Performance Certicates which allow prospective buyers to and maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and evaluate the energy efficiency of a property they are use of all substances and the prevention of accidents and considering buying and to identify opportunities to improve causes of ill health.
The Company will maintain safe and the energy efficiency once they have purchased the property.
healthy working conditions for employees, visitors and We also take seriously the environmental impact of our contractors, and keep the policy on health and safety own operations.
As an internet-based company with most up-to-date with regular reviews and necessary alterations staff employed in two ofce locations, we believe our own to the policy as required.
environmental footprint is small and that there are no by-products of our operations which have a clear negative impact on the environment.
Over the course of 2007, we have taken a number of steps within our ofces to increase environmental awareness amongst our staff and to encourage everyone to take proactive steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, we have implemented comprehensive recycling schemes following consultation with local authorities and recycling partners.
The lighting in our ofces is designed to turn off after hours and in areas of the ofce not currently in use.
As an online company, our culture emphasises a paperless environment where printed copies of documents are needed, we ensure that all our printers use both sides of the paper.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do not stop just with how we operate internally we also encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers not to unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of all our emails.
Moreover, we have also introduced e-communications for our shareholders, including an HTML copy of the 2006 Annual Report to enable investors and people with interest in the Company to print specified pages thereby reducing the quantity of printed material we distribute.
