83 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:33 Page 83 Sustainable development review Mining is a long term, capital intensive business in which assets Alcan data is also reported for calendar years and represents are often situated in remote locations and can last for 30 years 100 per cent of the parameter at each operation that was managed or more.
This extended timescale means that, if we are to deliver by Alcan, with the exception of greenhouse gas emission and energy financial returns to local communities, host governments and use data, which are presented on an equity share basis.
our shareholders, we need economic, environmental and social Rio Tinto reports in line with the Global Reporting Initiative stability and strong governance.
Accordingly, we use a materiality assessment to Starting with the pioneering work of former Rio Tinto chairman select what information should be included in our report.
Please see Sir Robert Wilson, a focus on sustainable development has become our online report for further details.
We declare that our web based an integral part of the way in which Rio Tinto conducts its business.
GRI report is aligned with Application Level A.
This is reflected throughout the Group, from explicit recognition of Our business units and exploration group also produce their the value of sustainable development in The way we work and regular own local sustainable development reports.
These 2007 reports will references to the benefits of sustainable development in statements be available on the Rio Tinto website from the end of April 2008. by our chairman Paul Skinner and chief executive Tom Albanese: to implicit recognition of sustainable development thinking in the way Managing sustainable development we make decisions about finding, acquiring, developing, and We believe that making a contribution to sustainable development operating assets around the world.
should be integrated into all aspects of our business and that a This year we have integrated the annual Sustainable development structured framework is needed to ensure that we accomplish this review with the Annual report and financial statements.
allows us to reach a wider audience and improve links between Our sustainable development policy is laid down by the board of corporate, local and economic issues.
A full account of our 2007 directors in The way we work and applies across the Group to drive economic, social, environmental and governance programmes and our business culture.
The board committee on social and performance is available in the sustainable development section of environmental accountability ensures that we have the policies, the Rio Tinto website: www.
com ourapproach standards, systems and people in place to meet our social and .
asp environmental commitments and that our businesses, projects, operations and products are developed and implemented in line Business case for sustainable development with our commitment to sustainable development.
We are committed to contributing to sustainable development.
Rio Tinto is a founding member of the International Council on Not just because it is right to safeguard the health of the planet for Mining and Metals ICMM, a body that provides sustainable future generations, but because it also makes sound business sense.
development leadership for the industry.
As a member of the ICMM, By earning a good reputation for our care of the environment we are committed to superior business practices in sustainable and contribution to social improvement and the economic development, implementing the sustainable development conditions of local communities within a strong governance framework and complying with their policy statements.
structure, we gain improved access to land, people and capital, the To help explain the concepts of sustainable development, both three critical resources on which our business success is built.
to existing employees and newcomers, we continue to use training We believe this yields a range of long term benefits such as: and awareness raising tools throughout the Group.
This includes an better return for our shareholders: e-learning programme for managers called Chronos, developed by improved management of risks: the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and reduction in our operating costs: Cambridge University in the UK.
By the end of 2007 more than greater business opportunities: 2,000 managers had signed up to the programme.
attracting and retaining high calibre employees: In 2007 we started implementing our mine of the future project maintaining or improving the value and quality of our products in Western Australia to demonstrate better ways of mining through but with less impact on the environment: and automation and remote operations.
Key building blocks for automated better development opportunities for and relations with local mine to port iron ore operations are currently being commissioned.
These include controlling mining from a remote centre 1,300 All of these factors help differentiate Rio Tinto from its competitors kilometres away in Perth: using driverless trains to carry ore: and contribute to our goal of being the undisputed sector leader in introducing a driverless intelligent truck fleet and remote control maximising value for our stakeholders.
We aim to be the leader in integrated and automated The business case for sustainable development was mining and transport in the Pilbara, decreasing the footprint required demonstrated earlier this year at our Mesa A Waramboo iron ore for infrastructure and leading to greater efficiency, lower production project in Australia.
As part of our biodiversity baseline assessment costs and more attractive working conditions that will help recruit and for the project area a number of new species of rare air breathing retain staff in the highly competitive labour market subterranean invertebrates troglofauna were discovered by Rio Tintos demonstrated values in contributing to sustainable Rio Tinto.
This discovery could have stopped the project from development are matched by those of Alcan.
This is greatly assisting proceeding.
However, building on our biodiversity management in the integration of the two businesses.
Alcan was also a leader in framework, additional research was conducted and an enlarged combating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions mine exclusion zone was developed to protect these species.
Rio from its aluminium smelting operations.
It developed the most Tintos revised plans were endorsed by the Western Australia advanced smelting technology in the industry and has significant Environmental Protection Agency, allowing the project to proceed to access to low carbon footprint hydro-electric power.
Rio Tinto Alcan the next phase.
is building a US$180 million facility to recycle spent potliners used in the aluminium smelting process.
This promises to provide a long Reporting boundaries term solution to one of the environmental problems associated with Rio Tinto and Alcan data is presented side-by-side where possible.
In many cases data is not directly comparable due to differences in definitions.
Moving forward, former Alcan operations will adopt External recognition Rio Tinto definitions and consolidated data will be presented In 2007, Rio Tinto was listed on the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones from 2008.
We achieved platinum ratings on the Rio Tinto data is reported for calendar years and, unless Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility, Environment otherwise stated, represents 100 per cent of the parameter at each and Community indexes and also achieved the maximum score on managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have only partial the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
We were again rated ownership.
Information on our data definitions can be found in our highest in the metals, mining and steel sector.
Sustainable development review 84 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Goals and targets Rio Tinto Results 2007 performance comment Trend Environment targets A 4% reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions, 0.7% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of product per tonne of product, between 2003 and 2008 compared to 2003 A 5% reduction in energy used, per tonne of product, 0.7% decrease in energy used per tonne of product compared between 2003 and 2008 to 2003 A 10% reduction in freshwater withdrawn, per tonne of product, 4.1% decrease in freshwater withdrawn per tonne of product between 2003 and 2008 compared to 2003 Safety targets Zero fatalities Three contractors were fatally injured at Rio Tinto managed sites.
One metal merchant was fatally injured at an Alcan Engineered Products site in December A 50% reduction in the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 43% improvement in LTIFR compared to 2003 between 2003 and 2008 A 50% reduction in the all injury frequency rate AIFR 40% improvement in AIFR compared to 2003 between 2003 and 2008 Health targets A 40% reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness 81% decrease in new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 per 10,000 employees between 2004 and 2008 employees compared to 2004 A 20% reduction in number of employees per 10,000 employees 5.8% decrease in employees per 10,000 exposed to more than exposed to a noise environment in the workplace of more than 85 decibels in the workplace 85 decibels between 2004 and 2008 Employment goals Increase the representation of women in senior management 7% of current senior management and 22 per cent of identified to 20% by 2009 future leaders are women Increase the proportion of women in the graduate intake by 50% increase in the proportion of women in the graduate intake 50% from a 2004 baseline compared to 2004.
Community relations targets Site managed assessments SMA completed at all high risk sites 7 of 18 high risk SMAs were commenced or completed in 2007 1 by end of 2008, or within two years of acquisition Human rights and political involvement targets No breaches of Rio Tintos policies for human rights and No reported breaches of our policies in 2007 political involvement Alcan Results 2007 performance comment Trend Environment targets All new sites acquired or commissioned required to All sites acquired prior to 2005 are ISO 14001 certified be ISO 14001 certified within two years A 10% reduction in on-site greenhouse gas emissions, 4% reduction in on-site greenhouse gas emission per tonne of product, between 2005 and 2010 per tonne of product compared to 2005 Safety targets All new sites acquired or commissioned required to be All sites acquired prior to 2005 are OHSAS 18001 certified OHSAS 18001 certified within two years Recordable case rate of 1.06 per 200,000 hours worked 0.82 recordable case rate, a 29 per cent improvement from 2006 Lost time injury illness case rate of 0.26 per 200,000 hours worked 0.28 lost time injury illness rate, a 28 per cent improvement from 2006 Serious injury case rate of 0.21 per 1,000,000 hours worked 0.23 serious injury case rate, no change from 2006 1 Target changed in 2007 to reflect a risk based approach to SMA scheduling Key Target met or significant progress Positive trend Considerable improvement Results variable over time Target not met or behind Group trajectory Negative trend 85 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review Performance data 2005 2006 2007 Rio Alcan Rio Alcan Rio Alcan Tinto Inc. Tinto Inc. Tinto Inc.
Environment Environmental Management System EMS certification % operations 90% 100% 95% 100% 100% 100% Significant environmental incidents 8 0 8 15 99 1 Significant spills 2 2 2 Fines and prosecutions Environment US$ 000 67.9 56.8 9.6 2 Energy use Petajoules 246 281 257 277 266 270 2 Greenhouse gas emissions on-site million tonnes CO equivalent 14.1 20.6 15.2 19.8 15.6 19.1 2 2 Greenhouse gas emissions total million tonnes CO equivalent 26.7 30.6 28.3 29.5 28.3 27.8 2 Freshwater input billion litres 210 200 190 Freshwater withdrawal billion litres 370 392 411 Land disturbed hectares 1,083 136 1,112 167 1,154 104 Land rehabilitated hectares 376 42 401 182 418 58 Waste generation mineral million tonnes 1,752 3.3 1,871 3.1 1,904 3.2 Waste generation non mineral million tonnes 0.31 1.04 0.33 1.05 0.29 1.09 Social Employees average 32,000 63,000 35,000 65,000 39,000 67,000 Fatalities 2032 31 3 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0.57 0.49 0.42 3 All injury frequency rate AIFR per 200,000 hours worked 1.35 1.10 0.97 4 Lost time injury illness case rate LTII per 200,000 hours worked 0.54 0.39 0.28 4 Recordable case rate RCR per 200,000 hours worked 1.51 1.16 0.82 Fines and prosecutions safety US$ 000 87.9 34.8 118.1 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 47 32 20 Total occupational illness case rate per 200,000 hours worked 1.1 1.2 Fines and prosecutions health US$ 000 58.1 3 0.1 Community contributions US$ million 93 96 107 5 Economic Gross sales revenue US$ billion 20.7 25.4 33.5 Underlying earnings US$ billion 5.0 7.3 7.4 Cash flow from operations US$ billion 8.3 10.9 12.6 Dividends paid to shareholders US$ billion 1.1 2.6 1.5 Demand for materials, facilities and services US$ billion 8.0 11.0 16.3 Capital expenditure US$ billion 2.5 4.0 5.0 Wages and salaries paid US$ billion 2.3 2.7 4.2 Taxes and royalties charged US$ billion 3.1 4.2 4.2 Total value added US$ billion 12.7 14.4 17.2 Numbers corrected from those originally published following data verification 1 Significant spills are incidents which were of a nature to impact the environment or may have concerned local communities 2 Alcan energy use and greenhouse gas emission data is calculated on an equity share rather than on a management control basis 3 Hours used in injury frequency rate calculations are based on reasonable estimates 4 Alcan safety data is not comparable with Rio Tintos due to differences in data definitions related to restricted work day injuries and contractor statistics 5 Economic data includes contributions from the former Alcan operations during the 69 day post-acquisition period in 2007 Indicates the parameter is not applicable or data is not available ENVIRONMENT Respect for the environment is central to Rio Tintos approach to testing a programme to improve mineral waste management at sustainable development.
Unless we operate responsibly and can three sites to help operations reduce the financial risks and demonstrate leadership in all aspects of exploring, mining, increase environmental protection relating to tailings, waste rock, processing, transporting and marketing we are unlikely to be given open pits, block caves, underground workings and waste the ready access we need to people, capital and land.
we want Rio Tinto to be viewed as the publics preferred developer from exploration right through to mine closure.
Discussion of Rio Tintos significant environmental incidents can be We have devised and implemented a number of practical found in the Directors report on pages 101 and 102. programmes covering the management of climate change, water, land stewardship, biodiversity, mineral and non mineral waste, air Greenhouse gas emissions quality, and closure.
These programmes include input from our local We accept the urgent need for climate change action and recognise communities as well as from experts in these fields.
Examples of our the issue as being one of our greatest challenges and opportunities.
work in 2007 include: We are identifying ways to improve how we do business so that we developing and implementing a biodiversity values assessment actively contribute to solutions.
Controlling emissions that lead to tool designed to prioritise risks and opportunities: climate change is a difficult task.
It also imposes costs for developing and implementing a new protected area of national greenhouse gas abatement and necessitates changes to the way we significance in Madagascar in collaboration with other and our customers generate and use energy.
For this reason we are stakeholders: focusing on the seriousness of this issue from both an economic and discovering and protecting several new species of rare troglofauna environmental perspective.
Further details can be found in our at an iron ore development in the Pilbara: online report.
conducting risk and opportunity assessments for water management at 34 sites: and Sustainable development review 86 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 86 Since 2003, Rio Tintos climate change programme has had three Rio Tintos total greenhouse gas emissions, made up of on-site core themes: emissions and those from the purchase of electricity and steam, reducing emissions from our operations: were 28.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe in 2 2007.
This is the same as in 2006, which is commendable given the understanding and developing low emission product pathways by rate of expansion across the Group.
working with others on supply chain emissions and on We believe it is important to understand the impact of our breakthrough technologies: and products along the value chain.
There are energy efficiency and engaging with governments and stakeholders to advocate sound greenhouse gas emission benefits associated with the use of many of and efficient domestic and international policies.
our products, like uranium use for power generation, aluminium use to make cars lighter, borate use in insulation products and copper Rio Tinto continues to navigate successfully through a challenging use in high efficiency motors.
However, there are significant and fast changing external environment.
We remain confident that greenhouse gas emissions associated with the transportation, our programmes will deliver value to our business and enhance our processing or use of Rio Tintos products.
6.6 million tonnes of COe associated with third party transport 2 Key steps in 2007 of our products and raw materials: Together with BP we launched Hydrogen Energy, which will around 42 million tonnes of COe associated with processing 2 develop decarbonised energy projects around the world.
The bauxite and smelting alumina that Rio Tinto sold to third parties: venture will initially focus on hydrogen-fuelled power generation, an estimated 344 million tonnes of COe associated with 2 using fossil fuels and carbon capture and storage technology to customers burning our coal for electricity generation and steel produce new large scale supplies of clean electricity.
Hydrogen production: and Energy is our first major foray into new business arenas which are approximately 268 million tonnes of COe associated with steel 2 being opened up by climate change and energy policy.
produced from our iron ore.
Note that some steel producers use On the Carbon Disclosure Project we were one of only four both Rio Tinto coal and iron ore, thus to avoid double counting, companies worldwide one of only two carbon intensive these emissions cannot be added to those associated with the companies to achieve a perfect score in the Climate Disclosure combustion of our coal above.
We were ranked number one in the Mining and Metals sector.
Alcans total greenhouse gas emissions were 27.8 million tonnes of Alcan was included in the FT500 Climate Disclosure Leadership COe, calculated on an equity share basis.
The new combined 2 Index and the Canada 200 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
Aluminium product group is expected to make up about two thirds Alcan was ranked number one for disclosure in the high carbon of Rio Tintos gas emissions in the future as shown.
impact sector in the Canada 200 report.
After over a decade of involvement Rio Tinto remains a committed Combined Rio Tinto and Alcan 2007 greenhouse gas emissions on a management control basis supporter of the Australian Greenhouse Challenge Plus programme.
Aluminium formerly Alcan Inc 39% Rio Tinto renewed its sponsorship of Battelles Global Energy Aluminium formerly Rio Tinto Aluminium 26% Technology Strategy Programme www.
org Rio Tinto Other Products 35% We obtained regional climate predictions for six businesses using the University of Oklahoma Climate Model to improve our understanding of physical climate change impacts and to determine what adaptation measures may be needed in future.
Both Rio Tinto and Alcan participated in a number of collaborative efforts to promote effective public policy frameworks excludes greenhouse gas emissions from Alcans Engineered Products and to address climate change, including the US Climate Action Packaging divisions Partnership USCAP and made submissions on proposed legislation to governments in Australia, the US, New Zealand and Rio Tintos greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of product have only Canada.
decreased 0.7 per cent compared to 2003.
We are not on track to Rio Tintos executive committee continues to centrally fund meet our four per cent reduction target by 2008.
This is due to a certain greenhouse gas reduction and or energy efficiency decline in energy efficiency see discussion in the energy section, projects.
Two successful examples of how this fund has been expansion activities such as overburden removal and land clearance, applied include: Partnering with Forestry NSW to test commercial changes in ore grades and purchased electricity emission factor scale forestry on buffer land at Rio Tinto Coal Australia sites: and increases, particularly in South Africa.
These effects overshadow reviewing energy use at our Richards Bay Minerals and Quebec efficiency gains elsewhere in the Group.
Alcans 2010 target was a ten per cent improvement in on-site greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of product from a 2005 Future direction for 2008 baseline.
In 2007, performance had improved by four per cent as a Hydrogen Energy and Masdar Abu Dhabis initiative for result of efficiency improvements, retrofitting best in class renewable and alternative energy and clean technology have technology and shutdown of some under performing operations.
agreed to work together on an industrial scale hydrogen fired Prior to 2003, considerable improvements in high intensity power generation project with carbon capture and storage in Abu perfluorocarbon PFC emissions control were realised at both Dhabi.
The project is expected to limit greenhouse gas emissions Rio Tinto and Alcan aluminium smelters.
Following this historic step by capturing some 90 per cent of the carbon dioxide generated, change, achieving additional gains in smelting efficiency has been and safely and permanently store up to 1.7 million tonnes of more difficult.
Prioritisation and implementation of projects to carbon dioxide per year.
The plant is expected to be in commercial improve energy efficiency remain a focus for Rio Tinto.
We will develop new strategies and capabilities to participate in Energy use emerging carbon trading markets.
Rio Tinto both consumes energy in its operations and produces it.
Our climate change leadership panel will transform into an Our smelting and mineral processing operations are energy intensive advisory panel with external and internal members to improve and depend heavily on electricity, coal, oil, diesel and gas to keep our understanding of climate change and our decision making them running.
At the same time, Rio Tinto is one of the worlds capabilities.
leading producers of coal and of uranium for the energy industry.
87 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 87 We believe the energy challenge can best be met by companies, business risk that we manage using leading sustainable practices.
governments and society working together on all fronts.
Global Our water requirements, particularly for freshwater, compete with energy demand growth will require all available energy sources: the needs of others and the environment, especially in arid and semi fossil fuels, nuclear and renewable energy sources.
The goal in each arid regions.
Our operations also have the potential to affect the case should be to continually improve the  quality of water discharged into the environment.
equation, by fully recognising and addressing the risks involved and We have a long term approach to water management that aims benefits achievable.
Technology development will be at the heart of to improve our performance, recognise the significance of water and improved energy solutions.
work with others to contribute to sustainable water management.
We strive to improve the energy efficiency of all our operations.
Our strategy provides a framework for all our water activities in the Some of the energy saving opportunities we have identified are Group.
For example, during 2007 we engaged with external actionable immediately: others require significant capital operations, such as WWF Australia, to build knowledge about the expenditure and have long design and construction lead times.
We continue to focus on ways to minimise the example, we are currently developing a step change technology, the amount of water we remove from the environment, to re-use it Drained Cathode Cell for aluminium production.
This has the whenever we can, and to return it to a state as similar to its original potential to significantly reduce the amount of process energy purity as possible when we discharge it.
required to make aluminium metal.
Alcan freshwater input decreased by eight per cent compared to A US$550 million pilot plant is being built at Rio Tinto Alcans 2006.
This was the result of improved water management at Alcans Complexe Jonquiere site in Canada to develop the proprietary Quebec hydroelectric generating facilities after installing control Aluminium Pechiney Series 50 AP50 smelting technology.
The valves to automatically restrict water use during maintenance and AP50 pilot plant is the initial step in creating up to 450,000 tonnes shut down.
of new generation smelting capacity, based entirely on clean, Compared with 2006, freshwater withdrawal increased by 4.8 renewable hydroelectricity.
The technology offers lower carbon per cent to 411 billion litres in 2007.
When compared to 2003, we dioxide output and allows for emissions reductions that could be have reduced the amount of freshwater withdrawn per tonne of applied across the industry.
The company has set an ambitious goal product, by 4.1 per cent.
However, we are not on track to achieve our of developing an environmentally friendly aluminium smelting cell five year target of a ten per cent reduction in freshwater withdrawn, that is 20 per cent more energy efficient than existing technology.
This is due to: Compared to 2006, Rio Tintos energy use increased by 3.3 per the seven weeks of Industrial action at the Iron Ore Company of cent to 266 petajoules.
In 2007, Alcan used 270 petajoules on an Canada causing freshwater to be withdrawn to maintain processes equity share basis.
This includes a significant proportion of hydrowhile production levels were low: electric power.
Two thirds of our combined electricity supply will be new borefields commissioned in the Pilbara to access ore as part greenhouse friendly hydro and nuclear power going forward.
of expansion activities: and fewer cyclones and hence drier conditions required operations in the Pilbara to withdraw additional water for dust control where Sources of combined Rio Tinto and Alcan electricity 2007 poor quality water could not be substituted.
Coal 28% Oil and diesel 2% The UN Millennium Development Goal on water is to reduce by half Natural Gas 3% the number of people who do not have sustainable access to safe Nuclear 10% drinking water by 2015.
Increasingly we work in developing Hydro 57% countries where clean freshwater is a rare commodity, and this is an issue of growing importance for us.
For example in Madagascar we are working with the local community and the World Bank to help excludes electricity used by Alcans Engineered Products and Packaging divisions people get access to clean drinking water.
In Cameroon, Alcan contributed to the installation of water wells for villages surrounding Rio Tintos target is a five per cent reduction in energy use per tonne its Alucam aluminium smelter near Edea.
of product by 2008, compared with 2003.
Energy use efficiency has improved by 0.7 per cent compared to 2003.
Incremental Land stewardship improvements in energy efficiency seen at many operations were In line with leading practice, we always aim to rehabilitate land as it overshadowed by restrictions to production, expansion activities and comes out of mining use rather than waiting until all operations at reductions in ore grade, which make meeting out target challenging.
Rio Tinto manages 36,900 square kilometres of This year, industrial action at the Iron Ore Company of Canada land, excluding our exploration leases.
Just over four per cent of this during the cold winter months suppressed production at a time area was disturbed for mining purposes in 2007 and by the end of when energy use is at its peak.
Our Pilbara iron ore mines saw the year more than a quarter of the disturbed land was rehabilitated.
increased fuel used for mining and increased demand for Land stewardship means matching the current and potential electricity supply to third parties in the region, which overshadowed uses of land we manage, with ecological and social values, tenure, other efficiency gains.
Our Argyle diamond mine experienced a customary ownership and community expectations regarding decrease in ore grade following its transition to underground development.
operations combined with an increased reliance on on-site Our leading policy and technical position on land stewardship electricity generation that decreased its energy use efficiency.
Coal has resulted in invitations to participate in a number of operations on the east coast of Australia experienced rail and international and national policy development forums.
Rio Tinto is port restrictions while fuel and electricity continued to be used at also playing a significant role in bilateral initiatives with the mines.
organisations such as the World Conservation Union.
Step changes in energy efficiency will not be possible within the As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals, target period.
However, our executive committee has sponsored we help develop industry policies and practices on protected areas additional projects over and above business as usual to review and and long term access to land.
We are working with the World prioritise opportunities for large scale energy use savings and Resources Institute to assess ecosystem services in site greenhouse gas emission reductions.
We are also working on a UNESCO project to identify best practice for assessing decisions about land use options and Water access while taking a regional view on landscape planning, rather Water is a resource with social, environmental and economic value than just a local view of the land within a project area.
at both the local and global level.
Access to water resources is a key Sustainable development review 88 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Biodiversity the International Network for Acid Prevention.
We recognise the importance of conserving and responsibly This year we rolled out a new diagnostic tool to improve the managing biological diversity, both as an issue for business and for management of all types of chemically reactive mineral waste.
addition to ARD, this programme also focuses on wastes that pose Rio Tinto is committed to a net positive impact on biodiversity, salinity, radioactivity, metals soluble or bioavailable at neutral pH and is introducing the strategy at its managed operations around the and naturally occurring asbestos risks.
Four mines and advanced world.
This means making sure our actions have an overall positive projects have now completed this diagnostic program.
effect on biodiversity and that they outweigh the impacts associated Non mineral waste includes materials that are used in mining with mining and processing.
and processing, such as tyres, oils, refractory lining and domestic We work in regions that are recognised and valued locally and rubbish.
We re-use and recycle these materials, where possible.
If globally for their biodiversity.
While high profile sites in countries recycling is not an option, we burn, store or dispose of waste in such as Madagascar, Brazil or Guinea attract a great deal of our engineered landfills in an environmentally responsible way and in attention we recognise that biodiversity values are important at any accordance with local regulations.
In 2007, non mineral waste site.
And their significance is expected to grow, as human and generation was 288 thousand tonnes, 11 per cent lower than in 2006. natural pressures modify habitats and raise extinction rates.
With an increased exposure to smelting and other Biodiversity also relates to communities, especially as many may downstream packaging activities, the inclusion of Alcan is expected depend on these natural resources for cultural and subsistence to have a significant impact on our non mineral waste profile.
Our biodiversity strategy therefore provides a operations generated 1.09 millon tonnes of non mineral waste framework for managing the interests and concerns of a wide and in 2007. diverse range of groups, among them traditional land owners, local communities, NGOs, regulators and the scientific community.
This is Air quality essential for achieving our twin goals of net positive impact on We recognise that we must ensure the highest quality of air possible biodiversity and sustainable communities.
We continued to work on at and around our operating sites.
Some of our activities emit biodiversity related projects with partner organisations including sulphur dioxide, fluorides and dust.
Given the potential impact of BirdLife International: Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew: Conservation our emissions on people and the environment, we need to International: Fauna & Flora International and the Earthwatch understand and control their effects.
While meeting our legal Institute.
requirements we are also looking ahead to address evolving In 2007, we conducted a baseline assessment of the biodiversity community expectations.
values at each Rio Tinto site.
This information will be used to Sulphur dioxide emissions increased by 2.8 per cent to 72 prioritise our biodiversity activities and management over the next thousand tonnes.
Fluoride emissions, mainly from aluminium four years.
smelting, were 1.2 thousand tonnes, which was similar to 2006.
Within Alcan, technology has led to reductions in air emissions Waste over the last ten years.
However decreasing raw material quality has In using our resources wisely, we ensure we also manage our mineral made it difficult to improve on this performance.
Alcan is and non mineral wastes in a socially responsible way.
undertaking a comprehensive review of its raw material supply as Mining activities require large quantities of rock to be moved to well as addressing this challenge through research and development.
Mineral processing activities result in Dust is an important issue that cuts across many areas, including generation of slags and tailings.
These materials, commonly termed occupational health, environment, processing and assets.
Dust mineral wastes, can pose environmental hazards if poorly managed.
collectors are used wherever possible.
The total number of Through improvements in mine planning we are improving the community complaints about air quality, mainly dust related, were efficiency with which we mine and process ore leading to reduced nearly four times higher than in 2006 417 complaints compared to material movements, fuel consumption and greenhouse gas 87 in 2006.
Much of this can be attributed to drier conditions in emissions.
Australia and the result of making it easier for local community We produced 1,904 million tonnes of mineral waste in 2007, members to contact us.
about two per cent more than in 2006.
Much of this material was A programme to reduce water use for dust control using moved within mined areas and placed as in-pit backfill 66 per cent chemical suppressants and improved spray technology should see or was stored in engineered piles 31 per cent close to where it was improvements in dust and water management.
development reports provide a more comprehensive discussion on The acquisition of Alcan is expected to have marginal impact on regional dust management.
Alcan operations generated 3.2 million tonnes of bauxite waste in 2007.
SOCIETY One of the most serious environmental risks for the mining Ethical integrity and social responsibility are critical to the way we industry is acid rock drainage ARD from mineral waste.
We aim to build enduring relationships with sulphide containing rocks are disturbed and exposed to air and our stakeholders that are characterised by mutual respect, active water, they may release acidity, metals and sulphate.
Left partnership and long term commitment.
In the long run, the trust unchecked, this can reduce water quality in the long term.
that is engendered by solidly based relationships will reinforce Rio We minimise the potential for ARD generation by adopting Tintos ability to gain preferential access to resources.
leading practices in mine planning, operation and waste management.
Only about 11 per cent of Rio Tintos mineral waste Safety generated was considered to have acid generating potential or to Safety is a core value at all our businesses.
We believe that all pose other geochemical hazards in 2007.
Kennecott Utah Copper injuries are preventable and our aim is for all employees to go home contributed 63 per cent of this total.
To minimize water contact safe and healthy at the end of each day.
chemically reactive mineral waste is covered or capped and Rio Tintos activities involve working on the surface and vegetated wherever possible.
underground with large, heavy equipment, explosives and Rio Tintos ARD review programme is regarded as the industry chemicals, sometimes at extreme temperatures.
We also face normal benchmark for this key risk area.
Since 2004 we have completed 22 industrial hazards such as driving vehicles, working at heights and ARD risk reviews, including reviews of all of our operations and operating machinery with dangerous moving parts.
advanced projects that pose high ARD hazards.
In 2007 we focussed Rio Tinto has one of the best safety records in the industry.
We on the ARD risks and management programs for our La Granja actively manage the safety of all those who work on our sites copper project in Peru.
Rio Tinto continues to play a leading role in employees and contractors alike.
89 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review Complex mineral processing facilities such as smelters, its effectiveness, this model will be recommended to the rest of refineries and concentrators require particular attention to process the Group.
We have conducted risk assessments of major process hazards Although mechanisation and automation are rapidly reducing across the Group to prioritise activities and capital investments the physical demands of our work, musculo-skeletal illnesses effectively.
Implementation of these actions will remain a focus area remain the most common cause of new occupational illnesses at in 2008.
In 1998, the Group embarked on a drive to improve its safety.
Since Noise induced hearing loss from heavy equipment accounted for then, the all injury frequency rate AIFR has improved by 78 per cent, 12 per cent of our reported health incidents in 2007.
We are a good record but not one to be complacent about.
Indeed, we deeply reducing employee exposure to noise in the workplace through regret that in 2007 three contractors were fatally injured at Rio Tinto engineering solutions and alternative ways of doing our work.
One metal merchant was fatally injured at an Since 2004 we have achieved a 5.8 per cent reduction in Alcan Engineered Products operation in the reporting period after employee exposure to a noise environment of more than 85 decibels.
Rio Tinto assumed management control in October.
We have Although the majority of this improvement was achieved during thoroughly investigated these incidents and communicated and acted 2007, we have considerable work ahead to meet our target of a upon the lessons learned.
Contractor management will be a key focus 20 per cent reduction in the number of employees per 10,000 for us in 2008. employees exposed to noise between 2004 and 2008.
The drive to The lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR at the end of 2007 achieve this aggressive target has resulted in improved data and was 0.42 per 200,000 man hours, an improvement of 16 per cent better knowledge of workers noise exposures.
The AIFR was 0.97, an improvement of 11 per cent over In 2003 we set a stretch target to reduce the number of new 2006.
We are on trajectory to achieve our 2008 targets in both areas.
cases of occupational illness by 40 per cent.
We met this ambitious It is regrettable that injuries are still taking place at our sites.
In target and at the end of 2007 the number of cases was 38 per cent order to further embed a strong safety culture, we are increasing lower than in 2006 and 81 per cent lower than in 2003. focus on individual intentions and behaviour while ensuring we Rio Tinto is operating in countries where the prevalence of maintain our strong systems and performance standards.
HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria is high.
We are working closely Some key steps we took in 2007 were: with the international community of government agencies and progressing the key elements of a revised safety strategy to embed NGOs concerned with these problems not only in Africa, but safety standards and implement a leadership development globally.
For example, where we have operations located in regions programme: with a generalised HIV epidemic as defined by UNAIDS we actively completing a risk management assessment, which allows risks to encourage all employees to know their HIV status through voluntary be ranked in a practical way for operations: and testing.
We also require that all employees and their nominated developing a protocol for the conduct of process safety technical partner have affordable access to treatment, care and support, risk reviews to reduce complexity and prioritise hazard rankings.
Some other key steps in our occupational health management in A key factor in the Alcan acquisition was the consistency across both 2007 were: companies on the importance of safety.
While our philosophies were extending voluntary counselling and testing of HIV to over 70 per similar, Alcans definitions were different to those used by Rio Tinto cent of employees at Richards Bay Minerals in South Africa.
The and hence 2007 performance is not comparable.
Work has commenced programme also highlighted 200 cases of other chronic diseases: to create a 2007 baseline for Alcan using Rio Tinto definitions.
developing workplace exposure limits for high temperature work Alcans recordable case frequency rate was 0.82 at the end of in conjunction with trade associations and implementing 2007.
This represents a 29 per cent reduction over 2006 and an practical solutions where possible: 84 per cent reduction over 2001.
This performance was 23 per cent commencing work on developing the science needed to set better than Alcans target for the period.
The lost time injury illness workplace exposure limits for copper: and rate also declined by 28 per cent but remained eight per cent short Rio Tinto chaired the ICMM committee that produced practical of the 2007 target.
guidelines on the management of tuberculosis, malaria and HIV Some notable examples of Alcans success in reducing these in the workplace.
rates include controlling hazardous energy sources from upstream operations and development and roll out of large scale ManWe have begun to integrate the Rio Tinto and Alcan approaches to Machine-Interface programmes in downstream operations.
At the strategic level, the two companies had similar programmes: active reduction of health risks, promotion of Health wellness and HIV AIDS management.
At the detailed level more An important element of our sustainable development approach is work is needed to align our reporting definitions.
The inclusion of the health and wellbeing of our employees, contractors and the Alcan changes our health risk profile with an increased proportion people in the communities in which we operate.
The nature of occupational illnesses is changing.
Illnesses such as stress, fatigue, and musculo-skeletal, and the normal results of Employment ageing such as heart disease and reduced physical capacity present Rio Tinto employs on the basis of job requirements and does not different challenges to the traditional mining health issues.
One of discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, the most important occupational health issues we face are the risks sexual orientation, politics or religion.
Exceptions are made to associated with an ageing workforce and their ability to continue to favour local employment where local laws provide.
We do not perform their roles injury and illness free.
employ forced, bonded or child labour.
We are committed to reaching our goal of no new cases of Employee numbers are continuing to increase as expansion of occupational illness and believe that we will only achieve this our operations takes place.
In 2007, Rio Tinto directly employed an through promoting the good health of all our employees and average of about 39,000 people.
Many of these are recruited from contractors.
Supporting healthy lifestyles reduces health related risks the local areas in which we operate, but an increasing number of such as fatigue and obesity, and improves productivity.
In addition, Alcan employed In 2007, more than 77 per cent of our employees worked at an average of 67,000 people in 2007, including the Engineered operations that had implemented health and wellness programmes.
We have developed a leading practice promotion of wellness model We employ graduates from many disciplines including that will be introduced to more than 6,000 workers and their engineering, anthropology, human resources, health, safety and families across 21 sites in Australia in 2008.
For the fifth year in a row, there has been a significant Sustainable development review 90 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 90 increase in the number of graduates that we are recruiting globally, Rio Tinto expects managers to abide by the highest standards of 265 in 2007, compared with 203 in 2006.
We have not yet included behaviour.
Employees are expected to treat each other and external gender diversity information from former Alcan operations.
We are contacts with dignity, fairness and respect.
Harassment in the ensuring our systems provide appropriate opportunities for women workplace is guarded against and neither abuse nor misuse of graduates.
Thirty per cent of the 2007 graduate intake were women, position or facilities for any purpose is tolerated.
Obligations to a 50 per cent increase from our 2004 baseline.
colleagues and the Group are respected, while collaboration is Although we have reached the goal for increasing the number of encouraged within and across businesses, cultures and countries.
women at graduate levels, we would like to make better progress The Speak-OUT programme provides employees with an towards the goal for gender diversity at senior levels.
Women independent and confidential means of reporting concerns to senior represent 22 per cent of identified future leaders, a two per cent managers.
increase from 2006, and seven per cent of Rio Tintos senior management, a one per cent increase from 2006.
A review of our Communities diversity goals and the development of new initiatives to improve Wherever we operate we seek to understand the social, the representation of women at all levels, including senior environmental and economic implications of our activities, both for management roles, is planned for 2008. the local community and for the overall economy.
We work closely In world class mines and processing facilities such as those we with local representatives to inform ourselves of community operate, the workforce is becoming increasingly skilled, requiring a concerns and priorities, and our programmes are the result of high level of training and capability.
More than 1,000 people extensive consultation and research.
Mutual benefits and attended regional and global leadership and functional development obligations are discussed with local governments and community programmes in 2007 and 280 graduates attended the Rio Tinto representatives.
Objectives are agreed to secure long term results.
Our business units and Group In Australia, Rio Tinto establishes agreements with Aboriginal functions deliver over 7,000 role specific and relevant training traditional owners and groups affected by its activities to gain access courses annually across all technical and functional areas and for exploration land access agreements and to develop mining among all levels of the organisation.
We are increasing our use of operations regional development agreements.
Our policy of simulator based and technology driven experiential learning and increasing opportunities for indigenous Australians is reflected in have also developed our own approach to coaching.
We recognise that attracting, developing and retaining a skilled During 2007, we increased Australian indigenous employment workforce is critical to business performance.
We believe that our by 367 people to 1,212 or eight per cent of Rio Tintos Australian approach is one of the most competitive in the industry and is workforce.
The biggest increase was seen at Rio Tinto Iron Ore, based on: which now employs 518 indigenous people 11 per cent of the engaging with employees about the business, valuing each workforce compared to 274 in 2006. individuals contribution, and working with people to achieve Similar values are applied by Alcan.
In 2007 the company ongoing change and improvement: published its new Aboriginal policy formalising ongoing activities conducting performance reviews, development planning, and partnerships with native people around the world.
coaching and feedback processes: To enable us to target the delivery of socio-economic managing talent so that managers review employees career programmes reflecting the priorities of local communities, 2007 saw aspirations and potential: an increased use of community baseline assessments, including offering opportunities for career development and progression, identification of potential positive and negative impacts of our including options for working across a range of businesses both presence.
We use this information along with two way community locally and internationally: and and local stakeholder consultation to develop our multi year introducing flexible working arrangements in many parts of our communities plans, which include measures of success that are business.
To contribute to sustainable livelihoods after mine closure, each Rio Tintos total rewards strategy is designed to attract, retain and Rio Tinto business now has an annually updated closure plan.
The motivate the skilled workforce essential to the success of our plans apply throughout the lifecycle of the Groups activities, from business.
Base pay is reviewed regularly and adjusted as necessary exploration to mine closure and beyond.
All these plans are taking into account the individuals role, local market trends and, for developed with community input, particularly regarding post many employees, business and personal performance.
This process mining land use.
allows us to ensure that employees are paid competitively against Our work in 2007 included: the external market and consistently with their internal peers.
In updating our Communities Standards and guidance notes addition we also offer allowances, bonuses, share plans and including a new standard for Cultural Heritage Management for healthcare benefits appropriate to the local markets.
Australian Businesses: We not only comply with employment legislation in the providing financial and technical support to community HIV countries in which we operate, but look to apply a best practice programmes in Madagascar with public and NGO partners and approach to remuneration.
We aim to ensure that our remuneration establishing a business advisory centre to promote local systems are transparent and equitable.
Equally qualified and entrepreneurs and decentralise our supply chain: experienced employees doing the same work to the same standards undertaking a new social and environmental impact assessment of performance will receive comparable remuneration and for the expansion project at Rssing Uranium, Namibia, after 30 employment conditions regardless of gender, age, ethnic or social years of operations: origin, sexual orientation, politics or religion: unless required by renewing our commitment to an enhanced community assistance local laws.
We spent US$3,346 million excluding Alcan on wages programme at Murowa diamonds, Zimbabwe, to include school and employee benefits in 2007, which represents about 11 per cent construction and rehabilitation, electrification, small irrigation of our total economic contributions.
projects, and food security programmes: The Group also has retirement benefits in place for many progressing 23 Guinean staff from entry level positions to employees.
It participates in state arrangements where offered and positions of higher responsibility at the Simandou project and appropriate, and supplements these with company arrangements in donating 130 computers collected from various Rio Tinto the main jurisdictions in which we operate.
The main plans are operations to local civil society organisations: independently audited and we use independent advisers and sponsoring nine Mongolian students to study in Mongolia and actuaries to ensure that the plans are sustainable and adequately other parts of the world in mining related fields including: funded.
finance, law, geology and accounting: 91 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 91 relocating scarred trees of cultural significance to a suitable site in Product stewardship consultation with traditional land owners as a result of heritage Active monitoring of the health, environmental and lifecycle factors surveys of land designated for mining at the Weipa bauxite mine associated with our products once they are in use serves to protect in Australia.
our markets and our ability to supply them.
We also engage with introducing a community relations diagnostic tool for operations regulators and consumers on issues arising from the use of our to more rigorously assess their performance against Rio Tinto products.
By understanding the health and environmental impacts and benefits of our products over their complete lifecycle, we can ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION potentially improve our processes, enhance our reputation in the Our gross sales revenue in 2007 was US$33,518 million, a 32 per market place, differentiate our products from our competitors and cent increase on the previous year.
This includes sales revenue of become a brand of choice for metals and minerals products.
The US$3,798 million from the former Alcan operations during the 69 enhanced reputation we earn by adopting a lifecycle know your day post-acquisition period.
The rise was primarily attributable to products approach helps improved access to land, people and record production volumes across most of our products and to strong financial assets.
prices, driven by surging demand.
Underlying earnings were We have been able to translate our product stewardship approach US$7,443 million compared to US$7,338 million in 2006. into tangible business value by securing premium prices, developing The Groups continuing financial success is based on its ability ongoing engagement with customers and successfully providing to secure access to people, capital and land.
We use our expertise to scientific input to developing regulations affecting market access.
harness these resources, creating prosperity for our shareholders, Across the Group 86 per cent of businesses had formal product employees, communities, governments and business partners.
stewardship programmes to address customer needs and a majority Rio Tinto has significant economic impact on the communities of business units engaged in supply chain activities, a significant in which it operates, at the local, state and national levels.
Sixty two per cent of businesses undertook a considerable care to delineate this economic impact, allowing us to lifecycle assessment of major products.
Together with the work demonstrate the value of our ventures to existing and potential performed by industry associations, life cycle data is now available partners and stakeholders.
on all of our major products.
Alcan also has a formal product stewardship programme and has completed lifecycle assessments on Socio-economic programmes its major products.
Alcan has also developed a regulatory In 2007, Rio Tinto businesses supported more than 2,900 socioprogramme to address emerging REACH Registration, Evaluation, economic programmes covering a wide range of activities including Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances regulations in health, education, business development, housing, environmental Europe that complements the Rio Tinto REACH and Material Safety protection and agricultural development.
Data Sheet programmes aimed at compliance with worldwide We spent an estimated US$107 million on community emerging hazard classification regulations.
assistance programmes and payments into benefits receiving trusts We are committed to research and development leading to set up in directly negotiated community impact benefit agreements.
Rio Tinto Alcans aluminium smelting, This does not include economic multiplier contributions, such as composite material and recycling innovations are resulting in salaries and wages, local procurement, infrastructure, housing and reduced energy use and greenhouse gas emissions.
applications, market opportunities continue to grow for advanced The acquisition of Alcan brought together two similar aluminium crash management systems, providing lightweighting approaches to facilitating sustainable communities, with opportunities while improving vehicle safety and vehicle complementary community support programmes not yet fully performance through innovative design.
For every tonne of captured in this report.
aluminium that replaces traditional higher density materials in a By understanding our economic interaction with the vehicle today, 20 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions are avoided communities where we operate we can optimise benefits for over the lifetime of the vehicle.
communities and our operations alike.
This economic interaction Rio Tinto Alcan is also supporting development of advanced includes relationships with local suppliers, training and local energy saving solutions by expanding the portfolio of lightweight employment, small enterprise support, the optimal distribution of aluminium materials available.
The high-gloss rolled aluminium taxes and royalties and multi-lateral socio-economic programmes.
sheet, Solar SurfaceTM 992, is being used in innovative parabolic The infrastructure developed for a particular mine or processing solar cooker applications, designed for markets in developing plant can also greatly benefit local communities and other regional regions.
Approximately 20,000 parabolic cookers distributed by players such as local businesses and governments.
charitable organisations are currently in use.
Aluminium recycling requires only about five per cent of the Procurement energy required in primary aluminium production and avoids We apply our approach to sustainable development along the supply approximately 95 per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions chain encouraging those we work with to adopt sound practices.
associated with first-generation metal production.
A project is Payments to suppliers constitute a strong additional benefit to the currently underway to expand capacity at Rio Tinto Alcans economy, generating employment and creating wealth in other sectors.
Neuf-Brisach facility to recycle beverage cans in a closed-loop Across the world, we spent US$13.5 billion on goods and arrangement with can manufacturers.
Rio Tinto had about 40,000 suppliers and Alcan had about 22,000, excluding suppliers for the GOVERNANCE engineered products and packaging divisions.
The success of each of Sound governance and high ethical standards of conduct are a our business operations depends on the ability of those suppliers to source of competitive advantage in securing access to resources.
deliver what we need, when we need it, and to our standards.
We Environmental performance, community relations and employee can exert a considerable positive influence by ensuring that welfare and transparency are just as important as technical aspects suppliers meet stringent requirements, not just for the quality of the of mining and processing.
If Rio Tinto is to succeed in positioning goods and services they provide, but also for their safety and itself as a developer of choice it has to be equipped to deal with employment practices and their commitment to sustainable complex stakeholder relationships.
To help explain Rio Tintos procurement practice, we Accordingly, our operating philosophy has a strong focus on published The way we buy in 2006 which is on our website.
corporate responsibility spelled out in our statement of business practice, The way we work.
This covers issues such as human rights, political involvement, transparency and zero tolerance of corruption.
Sustainable development review 92 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 92 All our employees are required to comply with the policies in the Mining is a heavily regulated industry and we maintain document.
The objective is to ensure that they reflect in their daily continuous dialogue with many governments and public authorities work high standards and values such as accountability, fairness, at national, provincial and municipal levels.
We speak out and make integrity and openness.
Published in more than 20 languages, The way representations on matters affecting our business interests and those we work is a reflection of the Groups diverse workforce as well as the of our shareholders, employees and others involved in our activities.
range of communities and stakeholders affected by our operations.
In addition to internal policies and activities, Rio Tinto is active We also actively engage with a wide range of external in promoting transparency and good corporate governance.
We have stakeholders to promote leading business practices.
As a member of been a member of the steering committee which developed and now the International Council for Mining and Metals www.
assists in the implementation of the Transparency International we are continuously improving our economic, social and www.
org Business Principles since their inception.
We regularly report our progress in line Through the International Council on Mining and Metals with the Global Reporting Initiative www.
com we are also a member of the Extractive Industries part of the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Transparency Initiative www.
Both Rio Tinto Progress and in our annual report.
and Alcan also endorse the World Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative www.
Human rights There were no reported incidents of breaches of Rio Tintos Rio Tinto and Alcan actively support the United Nations Universal political involvement policies during 2007.
At Rio Tinto, our commitment to human rights is reflected in our Competition statement of business practice The way we work and our Rio Tinto has adopted a specific antitrust policy requiring all complementary guidance documents on Human Rights and employees to compete fairly and to comply with relevant laws and Business Integrity.
Our human rights policies and procedures have regulations.
Guidance is provided on contacts with competitors and been strengthened as part of an online web based ethics and benchmarking as well as implementation of the policy in individual compliance training system.
As integral parts of the policy, all relevant employees completed the human rights training module, which is compulsory receive regular training and are required to certify annually that at the general manager level or above.
they are not aware of any antitrust violations.
No violations were Within Alcan, human rights were addressed through the Alcan reported in 2007.
Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct, and Indigenous Peoples Policy.
Human rights considerations were also addressed in Engagement the areas of procurement, security, stakeholder and community Genuine engagement with stakeholders is a critical element of engagement, project development and governance.
Many issues, such as climate change In implementing human rights policies, Rio Tinto is subject to and poverty elimination, are globally complex and require the relevant laws in the many other countries where we operate.
At stakeholders to work together to explore and develop appropriate all times we respect and comply with the obligations which those solutions.
Building strong working relationships with those who are bodies of legislation impose upon us.
affected by, or have an interest in, what we do is essential to our Rio Tinto is a signatory to a host of international commitments future operations.
We engage with a broad range of organisations and standards and remains dedicated to meeting them.
Rio Tinto and individuals including our employees, investors, governments, was involved from the inception of the Voluntary Principles on communities, academia, industry bodies, and civil society groups.
Security and Human Rights www.
org and has We are a member of a number of industry associations and of supported these principles since their announcement in 2000.
We representative bodies including the World Business Council for are also a founding member of the United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development www.
org and a participating member of the UK Business Council www.
org and the International Network.
The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary Chamber of Commerce www.
org, and we work closely with initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and international and non governmental organisations to develop strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of appropriate standards and guidelines for our industry.
Rio Tinto also human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
maintains an active partnership programme with other external Furthermore, Rio Tinto is a founding member of the Council for organisations to address issues of mutual interest.
By working Responsible Jewellery Practices www.
com together, we can achieve our shared goals more effectively.
which commits members to promote responsible business practices During 2007, the US$1 million annual Rio Tinto Alcan Prize for in a transparent and accountable manner throughout the industry Sustainability, continued to recognise significant contributions from mine to retail.
It also seeks to maintain consumer confidence in made by non profit, non governmental, or civil society organisations diamond and gold jewellery products and the trust of all interested promoting and implementing sustainable development.
We are also a member of the Kimberley Process www.
com a joint government, industry Mine closure and legacy issues and civil society initiative to stop trade in diamonds that fuel Closing a mine or other operating site does not simply mean conflict.
shutting down production, rehabilitating the land and walking away.
There were no reported incidents of breaches of our human Relationships change and peoples livelihoods can be affected, as rights policy during 2007. can the social and environmental programmes established during the life of the mine.
Transparency and political involvement Rio Tinto standards treat mine closure as a multi disciplinary We are committed to maximum transparency, consistent with good responsibility, involving community relations, human resources, governance and commercial confidentiality.
Rio Tinto strives to environmental specialists and engineers and financial specialists.
conduct its business with integrity, honesty and fairness, building Integrating closure planning into all aspects of decision making in a from a foundation of compliance with relevant local laws, business, from the earliest stages of project development to regulations and international standards wherever we operate.
decommissioning facilities is crucial to leaving a positive legacy of Training on our business integrity guidance is required for all sustainable development.
These guidelines cover bribery, anti-corruption and We understand that our legacy at one site may well determine political involvement.
We do not directly or indirectly participate in our future access to land, people and capital at another.
party politics or make payments to political parties or individual In 2007 we conducted ten reviews to ensure that all our mine politicians.
closure plans are current and are accurately reflected in the 93 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Sustainable development review U54670 pp83-94 5 3 08 23:34 Page 93 provisions in the financial statements in addition to sustainable Assurance development considerations.
These reviews included several site Our Corporate Assurance function has accountability and visits by multi disciplinary teams.
responsibility for providing internal assurance to the board that: The acquisition of Alcan brings more than 30 additional Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls as endorsed by the operations into the Group.
These sites will progressively develop board are adequately designed and effective for their intended closure plans to meet the requirements of the Rio Tinto Closure purpose: and Standard and incorporate stakeholder expectations.
Alcan has these policies, standards and controls are consistently brought valuable expertise in the creation of post closure implemented by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as sustainable value to the Group through proactive stakeholder designed.
engagement, life cycle planning, capacity building and application of innovative technology at all stages of mine life.
The objective of assurance and verification is to enhance the Through our partnership with the Eden Project, we continued to transparency and accountability of our performance on social and work with the Post Mining Alliance which aims to encourage and environmental issues.
promote the regeneration of old mine sites for the sustainable A key part of the assurance programme is to engage an benefit of the local community and natural environment.
The independent, external provider to prepare a statement that our alliance provides us with the opportunity to participate in a multisustainable development report is fair and accurate based on testing stakeholder discussion intended to address issues regarding of a selection of material areas.
In 2007, Ernst & Young took over abandoned mines, and to encourage good practice across the from Environmental Resources Management ERM to provide both industry in closing mines.
the external assurance and data quality verification of our sustainable development reporting.
The change in assurance Non managed operations providers was a result of ERM indicating their desire to provide The Rio Tinto Group consists of wholly and partly owned assistance to Rio Tinto on the design and implementation of subsidiaries, jointly controlled assets, as well as other entities and programmes and systems, which had the potential to compromise associated companies some of which we do not manage.
We believe that it is important to learn from Examples of these non managed operations include the our assurance and verification activities.
The recommendations Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold mine made by ERM in the 2006 Sustainable development review have been in Indonesia.
Alcan is involved in six joint venture operations and assessed, and actions taken during 2007 to address them are has an additional two joint venture projects under way.
Although Rio Tinto may not be directly involved in managing these operations, we remain closely engaged through membership of the boards of directors and of technical committees.
We encourage ERNST & YOUNG EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT them to adopt our policies and standards in community relations, human rights, environmental stewardship, health and safety.
Escondida, Chile Independent assurance statement in relation to Rio Tintos Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in the Escondida copper mine in sustainable development performance information presented Chile, which is managed by BHP Billiton.
Our seat on the mines under the heading of Sustainable development for the year Owners Council allows us regular input on strategic and policy ended 31 December 2007. matters.
Rio Tinto also played a part in helping to establish the Escondida To the managers and directors of Rio Tinto Foundation.
The Foundation is funded by about one per cent of the mines pre-tax profits and is the vehicle through which Escondida Scope fulfils its social responsibilities.
The Sustainable development section of the 2007 Annual report has been prepared by the management of Rio Tinto, who are responsible Grasberg, Indonesia for the collection and presentation of sustainable development The Grasberg copper-gold mine in Indonesia is owned and operated performance information within it.
Management is also responsible by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold.
Rio Tinto has a 40 per cent for maintaining adequate records and internal controls to support joint venture interest in Grasbergs 1995 mine expansion and is the sustainable development reporting process.
There are currently represented on the joint ventures operating committee.
no prescribed requirements for the preparation, publication and As well as providing substantial economic benefits to the state, verification of sustainability reports, such as this sustainable Freeport Indonesia is the largest private employer in Papua and one development section.
of the largest in Indonesia.
The mine supports the economy by Our responsibility, in accordance with Rio Tinto managements directly employing approximately 8,000 workers.
Of these, about a instructions, was to carry out a limited assurance engagement our quarter are Papuans.
Another 10,700 people are employed by assurance engagement in relation to a selection of disclosures contractors.
In the provision of healthcare, funding from the presented in the sustainable development section.
Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development was used to Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to build and expand two hospitals and a system of community health the management and directors of Rio Tinto only and in accordance clinics in Papua.
with the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support the Voluntary them.
As such, we do not accept or assume any responsibility for Principles on Security and Human Rights and continue to work any other purpose or to any other person or organisation.
Any together to ensure practice is consistent with them.
reliance any such third party may place on this Independent To meet the mines social obligations to local communities, at assurance statement is entirely at its own risk.
least one per cent of the mines net sales are committed to support Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in village based programmes.
In addition, two trust funds were accordance with the International Federation of Accountants established in 2001 in recognition of the traditional land rights of International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than the local Amungme and Komoro tribes.
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information ISAE3000 and with regard to the Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 GRI G3.
We designed our procedures in order to evaluate the sustainable development section Sustainable development review 94 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report against the principles of Materiality and Completeness as set out in We did not test electronic systems used to collect and aggregate the GRI G3 specifically as follows: operations level data and we did not attend any stakeholder Materiality has Rio Tinto reported the material topics concerning engagement activities.
its sustainable development performance, and has Rio Tinto presented material aspects of its performance concerning the selected material Our independence and assurance team sustainable development areas?
This Australian firm and all professional personnel involved in this Completeness has Rio Tinto fairly presented performance engagement have met the independence requirements of Australian information concerning the selected material sustainable development professional ethical requirements.
Ernst & Young has provided a areas with respect to the boundaries defined in the Annual report?
range of services to Rio Tinto such as internal audit of systems and processes unrelated to sustainable development, tax advisory, Work performed human capital and other business advisory services.
We believe the We selected five material sustainable development areas on a risk provision of these services has not impaired our independence.
basis the selected material sustainable development areas and six Our team has been drawn from our Sustainability Assurance and operations for our testing.
The selected material sustainable Advisory Services network, which undertakes similar engagements development areas were safety: health: climate change: land use and for a number of Australian and international businesses.
Our team biodiversity: and community and the six sites selected were Boyne has the required competencies and experience to perform this Island Smelters aluminium : Iron Ore Company of Canada: Energy engagement.
Resources of Australia: Kennecott Utah Copper: Richards Bay Minerals: and Rio Tinto Exploration Australasia Region.
These Our conclusions operations were selected to obtain a cross section of significant Based on our work described in this statement, in relation to the contributors to the selected material sustainable development areas, Sustainable development section of the 2007 Annual report, we and to give coverage across product groups and the geographic conclude that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to regions in which Rio Tinto operates.
believe that: Our procedures included but were not limited to: Materiality: 1.
Interviewing Rio Tinto executives and senior managers to There are any material sustainable development topics that were understand Rio Tintos challenges, priorities and status of identified by Rio Tintos materiality assessment process for activities in relation to sustainable development for the reporting disclosure that have not been reported.
year, and the process by which Rio Tinto implements The way we There are any material aspects of performance in relation to the work policies and receives assurances in relation to the selected material sustainable development areas that have not implementation of these policies.
Comparing the material topics identified by Rio Tintos materiality assessment to topics reported by industry sector peers, external Completeness: public information, and internal documents.
There are any material reporting units from within Rio Tintos 3.
Visiting the selected operations to sample test their processes for defined boundaries that have been excluded from the the collection and accurate reporting of performance information performance information presented in relation to the selected to the Group level for the selected material sustainable material sustainable development areas.
The performance data reported for the selected material 4.
Sample testing the Group level processes for collection, sustainable development areas have not been accurately collated consolidation and reporting of performance data, such as the at the Group level from operations level data.
Social and Environment Survey and Social and Environment There are any material errors or material misstatements regarding Assurance Reporting Tool as well as managements responses to performance data, statements and assertions presented in relation the Internal Control Questionnaire for the selected material to the selected material sustainable development areas.
Reviewing the sustainable development section of the Annual report against the outcomes of Rio Tintos materiality assessment.
Reviewing a selection of performance data, statements and assertions related to the selected material sustainable development areas presented in the sustainable development section of the Annual report against the outcome of our testing at Ernst & Young the operations and Group level.
Melbourne, Australia 5 March 2008 Level of assurance Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance Legislation.
on which to base our conclusions.
The procedures conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required in a reasonable assurance engagement and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion.
Limitations of our work performed Our scope of work did not include: managements forward looking comments and any comparisons made against historical data: Rio Tintos online information and sustainable development reports produced by Rio Tintos business units: any previous Rio Tinto Sustainable development reviews: assessing whether Rio Tintos reporting meets the requirements of the A application level of the GRI G3: and the sustainable development performance of Alcan.
