Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 32 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Corporate responsibility Delivering on our commitments.
The business case for Governance External recognition Each area of corporate responsibility has its own Rolls-Royce is ranked in a number of corporate responsibility governance process or managing committee, external indexes which benchmark corporate Corporate responsibility is a fundamental part of and each is led by a member of the Board or responsibility performance.
During 2007, the Groups business strategy.
It is not conducted Group Executive.
These include: we retained our position in both the Dow as a separate and self-contained activity, but is Jones World and European Sustainability integral to the business.
This is because we see the Environmental Council, chaired by the Indexes and retained our Platinum position corporate responsibility as making a key Director Engineering and Technology: in Business in the Communitys voluntary contribution to the success of Rolls-Royce in the the HS&E committee, chaired by the Corporate Responsibility and Business in markets in which we operate.
We believe that Chief Executive: the Environment Indexes.
conducting business in an ethical and responsible way brings us competitive advantage, because it the Global Council, chaired by the Dow Jones Sustainability helps us to: World and European Indexes Director Human Resources: and Rolls-Royce has retained its position in the Dow Jones attract and retain the best people: the Group Community Investment and Sustainability World and Sponsorship committee, chaired by the European Indexes for the sixth build goodwill and maintain successful consecutive year, conrming Chief Executive.
working relationships with customers, the Groups position as amongst the best in class for addressing suppliers and governments: and Individual subject matter expertise is reviewed a range of sustainability issues.
by the Corporate Responsibility Steering support the global communities in BitC BiE Index Group, which reports regularly to the Board.
which our employees live and work.
In the 2006 Business in the This group comprises the Director Human Environment Index, Rolls-Royce The Groups values of reliability, integrity and was once again awarded Resources, Director of Public Aairs, Director Platinum status and placed in innovation are embedded in our Global Code of Risk, the General Counsel and Company first position in the Aerospace of Business Ethics.
In addition, the corporate and Defence Sector.
for our stakeholder relationships worldwide, responsibility risk register uses the Company the strength of which helps to shape the risk process to identify the potential risks Groups reputation.
and opportunities, as well as mitigation plans BitC Corporate Responsibility Index to address these risks.
Additional information With around 39,500 employees in 50 countries, In the 2006 Business in can be found in the Principal risks and our strongest contribution to society is the Community Corporate uncertainties section on pages 22 and 23.
Responsibility Index, Rolls-Royce the wealth generated by the thousands retained its position as a of highly skilled jobs we provide worldwide.
Rolls-Royce has a long history of being a responsible business.
In the coming years the world will continue to change, along with the needs and expectations of all of our stakeholders.
We are committed to build on our track record and our obligation to continue to behave responsibly.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 33 Governance Financial statements Our approach Our approach to corporate responsibility is focused broadly on three key areas of activity: Health, safety and the environment HS&E With its long tradition of technological and engineering excellence, Rolls-Royce is well placed to help society address the problem of climate change and other environmental issues.
We also believe that good HS&E performance is synonymous with good business performance and good governance.
Read more on pages 34-35 Employees We aim to create a working environment that attracts and retains the best people and which enhances their exibility, capability and motivation, and encourages them to be involved, resulting in improved performance.
In doing this we deliver on the commitment to all our stakeholders of being trusted to deliver excellence.
Read more on page 37 Society Rolls-Royce has a rm, long-standing commitment to the communities in which we operate around the world.
Sustained investment in communities makes a positive dierence and delivers tangible benets to our business.
Corporate responsibility is also a key enabler in delivering our supply chain strategy globally.
Read more on pages 38-39 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 34 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued To ensure that we continue to make rapid We are working closely with other companies, Health, safety and the progress, we have updated our HS&E training trade bodies, sectors and regulators in environment HS&E for all employees and developed targeted preparing for the implementation of REACH.
training plans across our businesses.
Eorts have been focused on raising awareness Performance against targets These are being implemented currently, within our manufacturing operations and The Group believes that good HS&E performance with risk management training completed supply chains, in order that appropriate is synonymous with good business performance.
during 2007 as part of this programme.
arrangements for compliance and business Our stated vision is to be recognised widely continuity, and the targeting of any future All the Groups businesses have third party for the excellence of our HS&E performance.
substances of very high concern, are introduced certication to the environmental management To achieve that vision we continue to implement well ahead of deadlines.
Within the aviation system standard ISO 14001, and our robust processes in order to deliver against a sector, we are helping to develop international comprehensive Corporate HS&E audit number of key objectives by the end of 2009. standards for the declaration of substances programme assesses the implementation of the These are detailed in our reportResponsible inarticlessupplied to us to facilitate future HS&E management system across all businesses Operations, published in April 2007 and available REACH compliance and, where required, on a rolling audit basis.
This year, audits took on the Groups website at www.
place in the UK and US, across our civil In summary, our 2007-2009 objectives are to: aerospace, energy, fuel cells, marine services We continue to take part in the UKs voluntary and submarines businesses, and the carbon dioxide emissions trading scheme and Protect health combustions and casings, component services the Chicago Climate Exchange.
Programmes and turbine systems supply chain units.
Audit we have implemented to reduce carbon dioxide -10% reviews were also undertaken at four sites on emissions include an initiative at Inchinnan, Target: Reduce the incident rate of the management and eective control of major Scotland, where a reduction in furnace occupational diseases and other work-related hazards as part of an ongoing programme.
temperatures will reduce annual emissions by ill health by ten per cent by the end of 2009 around 1,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide and will We operate three sites in the UK which achieve cost savings of 140,000 a year.
Prevent injury together manufacture, test and support nuclear reactor cores for Royal Navy submarines.
-15% The Company Nuclear Propulsion Assurance Environment: technology Target: Achieve a 15 per cent reduction in the Committee monitors the performance of and climate change lost-time injury rate over one day by the these sites regularly to ensure that the highest Rolls-Royce believes that technology, end of 2009 standards of health and safety are maintained applied on an industrial scale, lies at the heart and processes are robust and t for purpose.
of societys response to climate change.
Reduce environmental impact Our annual Company HS&E awards recognise The scale of this challenge should not be outstanding initiatives and improvements underestimated.
This years winners were the application of such technologies is, in itself, Target 1: Achieve a ten per cent reduction Civil Aerospace Customer Delivery Centre for a formidable task, and must be accompanied in energy consumed normalised by financial state-of-the-art equipment to allow colleagues by a step change in consumer behaviour.
revenues by the end of 2009 to work safely on an engine at any height.
We are committed to applying our science Six safety performance certicates were and engineering skills to help overcome -10% awarded to sites achieving a full year with the challenges.
Target 2: Achieve a ten per cent reduction in no lost-time injury incidents.
In addition, solid waste normalised by financial revenues nine sites each achieved over one million by the end of 2009 man hours lost-time injury free.
58% The Groups contribution to developing best Target 3: Achieve a 58 per cent recycle rate practice through third party collaboration of solid waste by the end of 2009 continues to grow.
We are taking a leading industry role in REACH, the latest EU chemicals We will report on progress against these regulation, and have appointed a REACH objectives in April 2008 on the Groups website executive dedicated to this programme at www.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 35 Governance Financial statements The Group is in a unique position to address these dicult issues, due to its long history of optimising the environmental performance of its products.
For example, since the 1950s our engineering expertise has helped to reduce aircraft noise by 75 per cent and fuel burn by 70 per cent on a passenger per kilometre basis.
We are therefore well placed to contribute to the search for technological solutions to climate change.
In 2007, Rolls-Royce was announced as the Rising to the leading member of the Environmentally Friendly Engine programme, a UK government and industry initiative to develop technologies which will halve the amount of aviation fuel challenge.
The Group was also awarded a contract by the US Air Force Research Laboratory to develop a technology demonstrator for high-thrust, reduced fuel consumption military aerospace platforms.
We also continue to play a leading role in aiming to achieve, by 2020, the environmental goals set by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe ACARE.
The ACARE targets, which are broadly in line with the US research goals set by NASA, are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 50 per cent per passenger kilometre, noise by 50 per cent and NOx by 80 per cent, all from a 2000 baseline.
The drive to improve our products environmental performance spans all of our businesses.
For example, in the marine sector our latest Bergen K gas engine, which is certied to power the worlds first major car and passenger ferries running on liqueed natural gas, produces up to 90 per cent less NOx and 20 per cent less carbon dioxide than traditional diesel engines.
The Group is developing megawatt-scale, solid oxide fuel cell systems that will deliver significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, relative to existing fossil fuel power generation.
A 250 kilowatt unit is planned to be tested in 2008.
Other product developments v Environmentally Friendly Engine EFE include exploring the feasibility of renewable EFE is planned to deliver power sources, such as tidal stream and technologies that will lead oshore wind.
to reduced fuel consumption, emissions and noise.
The Group publishedPowering a better world, vv Technology research a report on the environmental performance We are constantly seeking of our products and our Group, in April 2007. to develop new advanced technologies to improve This is available on the Groups website at environmental performance.
com Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 36 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued k Learning and development Apprentices working together on the Group training scheme.
kk Employee engagement Employee representatives discussing issues during a meeting of the Global Council.
At the heart of everything we do.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 37 Governance Financial statements Encouraging diversity During 2007, we recruited 166 graduates and Employees The Group is committed to developing a 220 apprentices and technicians worldwide.
At the end of 2007, Rolls-Royce employed diverse workforce and equal opportunities An additional 642 undergraduate students were 39,529 permanent sta in over 50 countries.
for all, with a Global Diversity Steering Group employed for short-term training programmes The long life cycle associated with the Groups that shapes diversity policies.
One example of of two months to a years duration.
At the end products makes it imperative that we have our approach focuses on encouraging more of the year there were 323 graduates and 550 a skilled workforce which is committed to women and people from minority backgrounds apprentices and technicians on formal training delivering excellence to customers over to pursue engineering careers.
As a measure of our the long term.
To achieve this, we aim to dedication to graduate training, we were ranked In Asia, we made good progress in attracting create a working environment that attracts 24th overall in The Times newspapers Top 100 leadership talent through the Asian Future and retains the best people, enhances Graduate Employers of 2007, coming 2nd in Leaders Programme, attracting several high their exibility, capability and motivation the Engineering sector.
calibre early to mid-career managers to and encourages them to be involved, Rolls-Royce.
A number of senior managers We also continued to invest in customer resulting in improving performance.
were also recruited locally into key roles.
training, an important factor in strengthening Together they will form the nucleus of our competitive position, delivering over Upholding our values the Groups evolving regional senior 21,500 person days of training in our dedicated During the year we launched the Rolls-Royce management team.
facilities or at customersown premises.
Global Code of Business Ethics.
This sets out The third Womens Leadership Forum was held principles and guidelines concerning interaction in North America and the UK Womens Network Health and wellbeing with our stakeholders.
The Code is available was fully established.
The primary objective of the Groups in 16 languages and its distribution is being occupational health strategy is to create supported by a Group-wide training programme Our policy is to provide, wherever possible, a culture of prevention rather than cure.
which is being rolled out in 2008.
It can be employment training and development The strategy has four key areas of focus: viewed online on the Groups website at opportunities for disabled people.
com committed to supporting employees who screening and surveillance: become disabled and to helping disabled rehabilitation: employees make the best possible use of Engaging employees their skills and potential.
health promotion: and In 2005, we formed a Global Council to improve consultation and employee engagement.
This meets twice a year and involves over 40 Learning and development Progress against our screening and surveillance employee representatives from around the world The Group reviewed its learning and targets will be reported in April 2008 on plus senior managers from each business and development strategy in 2007, realigning its the Groups website at www.
In 2007, full Council meetings were held training provision to global business priorities A Health Risk assessment pilot programme in Indianapolis, US and Bristol, UK and included with the help of new Governance Boards which to identify and work with people at risk was consultation on global policy implementation.
are now accountable for training standards launched in 2007 among employees in operations worldwide.
This activity was strengthened with The year saw the launch of the Strategy functions in the UK and will run until mid 2008. the selection of new supplier partners in the UK, Storyboard, an interactive Group-wide brieng North America and Asia to ensure consistency The importance of managing rehabilitation on corporate strategy and performance, and the highest possible standards.
eectively was reinforced during the year with which was delivered via facilitated sessions an ongoing training programme.
New training to all employees worldwide.
Expenditure on the education, training and modules were also launched to help managers professional development of employees during The bi-annual Global Employee Engagement assess their own understanding and delivery the year totalled around 30 million.
Training Survey, which will next be conducted in 2008, of occupational health principles.
schemes to support future competitiveness provides valuable feedback on which we are developed continually.
Our quality A major health promotion campaign, Know act in consultation with employees and their programmes, for example, were deployed Your Numbers, was held during the year, representatives.
Response to the survey results globally to ensure consistent performance providing workstations where nearly 2,000 is handled locally by the Groups businesses standards across the Group.
During the year, employees measured their vital health statistics through action planning and feedback sessions.
we again increased our use of online learning, such as blood pressure, weight and blood Rolls-Royce provides competitive pay and delivering over 50,000 hours of training to cholesterol.
Anowners handbookhealth benets in all its locations and actively encourages over 11,000 users.
manual will be issued to all employees in 2008. share ownership by oering ShareSave plans The Group continued to promote best practice in to all employees.
Our employees currently health education by hosting a major conference commit around 105 million to these plans.
Leading experts In the UK, statutory arrangements enable spoke to an audience of employees about the employees to receive part of their annual bonus importance of maintaining a healthy workforce.
in shares and to make monthly share purchases from their salary.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 38 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Corporate responsibility continued v Working in the community kk Rolls-Royce Science Prize A company trainee gets involved Enthusiastic participants in in a community project.
the programme from Matthew Boulton Primary School.
vv Encouraging science learning A Cub Scout group visits Rolls-Royce as part of their science badge activity.
The e-business system, Exostar, has encouraged Donations and sponsorship Society virtual teamworking between the Group The Groups charitable donations policy is and its suppliers, signicantly reducing the todirectly support causes primarily relating Suppliers need to travel.
In addition, a drive to to educational, engineering and scientific The Group sets and manages its rigorous revert the equivalent of raw materials objectives, as well as social objectives performance standards for suppliers through recycling has resulted in an average of connected with the Groups business and place its quality system, Supplier Advanced Business 83 per cent achieved globally.
The Groups charitable Relationships SABRe.
This includes a supplier donations amounted to 1.8 million, of which code of conduct, which is complemented Local sourcing policies reect government 1.1 million were made in the UK.
These included by the Groups purchasing code of conduct regulations, such as in the US where particular support for The Princes Trust, Community that ensures suppliers and employees work rules towards working with small and Foundations and Duxford Airspace.
Rolls-Royce made charitable donations in other As outlined in previous reports, the Group seeks key regions of 700,000, with 267,000 donated to foster productive supplier relationships which: Community investment in North America, including support for the The Group has a longstanding commitment work of United Way, 144,000 in Germany and deliver mutual business benets: to supporting its local communities.
minimise the environmental impact Community investment is an intrinsic part A further 2.5 million was contributed in of business operations: of the way we do business, supporting sponsorships and educational programmes, the Groups strategy and future success, encourage the highest standards of including support for the Smithsonian National particularly in the areas of: ethical behaviour: and Air and Space Museum in North America, the recruitment and retention of employees, Brandenberg Summer Festival in Germany and promote human rights.
particularly by investing in the science the London Symphony Orchestra tour of China.
In 2007, we introduced an assessment of skills we need: The Group has a stated policy of working current and potential suppliers which includes employee engagement, by encouraging closely with governments and institutions a focus on their approach towards corporate a sense of loyalty and pride and motivation to highlight the many career opportunities responsibility, in particular their policies and about our organisation: that science and engineering can oer.
development of professional and personal Our agship programme, the Rolls-Royce The establishment of local purchasing skills such as teamwork, leadership, Science Prize, recognises excellent and oces continues globally, with a new oce adaptability and ethical behaviour: and innovative science teaching in the UK and opened in South East Asia.
Training of suppliers Northern Ireland.
This years winner, St. Stephen and the sharing of best practice, with an reputation, by building proactive and and All MartyrsPrimary School from Bolton, emphasis onleantechniques and waste mutually beneficial relationships in England, was awarded a total of 20,000 to elimination, have resulted in productivity the communities in which we operate.
invest in science education, with 120,000 improvements among some suppliers of During 2007, we conducted our fourth awarded in prizes to 61 schools in all.
global survey of community contributions, A number of activities are helping to minimise including cash, employee time and gifts in Employee time environmental impacts.
An active programme kind, using the London Benchmarking Group Employee time contributed during 2007 to encourage suppliers to adopt the model.
The Groups total contributions across is estimated at a value of at least 2 million, environmental standard ISO 14001 continued all these areas amounted to approximately with more than 5,000 employees participating in 2007, along with guidance and support to 6.6 million.
in activities such as community projects and help them achieve certication.
team building activities with societal benets.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 39 Governance Financial statements A number of employees in the UK, North America, and Germany completed a substantial community project as a formal part of their training or personal development programme.
During 2007, over 100 employees took part in 13 projects, which are recognised at the Groups Annual Learning and Development Awards.
Employee giving In addition to the Groups own contributions, Rolls-Royce also nances the administration of a Payroll Giving Scheme for UK employees, enabling them to make tax-free donations to their chosen charities.
During 2007, employees gave almost 450,000 to more than 350 charitable causes of their choice.
The scheme was commended at the 2007 UK Payroll Giving Awards and is recognised as Gold Award standard by the UK Governments Payroll Giving Quality Mark.
In North America, employees have contributed 125,000 directly from payroll to good causes through the United Way scheme, a percentage of which is matched by the Group.
In-kind support The Group also supports community and educational organisations with in-kind donations, including surplus computer equipment and oce furniture, use of oce accommodation, the loan of engines and components and places on Group training courses.
