ANNUAL REPORT 20 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ROTORKS ACTIVE QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME IS CENTRED ON PROCESS CONTROL.
QUALITY functions are increasingly ENVIRONMENTAL Rotork sites that generate high Rotorks active quality management international in makeup, sourcing The principal manufacturing site in levels of waste are being targeted programme is centred on process products in the country most Bath maintains an Environment for improvement.
Throughout each products appropriate for each particular Management System EMS, half of 2007, Rotork Gears life cycle, from initial concept to commodity.
A mutually supportive which is independently veried as installed recycling systems for volume production, every business worldwide supply network is being compliant with the requirements cardboard, wood and plastic and and production process is subject established, with local purchasing of ISO 14001: 2004.
The EMS expect to recycle 75% of total to robust scrutiny.
The three key and SQA teams representing the was developed to identify, manage waste generated in 2008.
Work is processes are product whole Group for component and reduce the significant also in progress to reduce the development, component supply.
SQA teams work closely environmental aspects and ensure waste generated at the factory in procurement and final assembly.
with suppliers from product compliance with environmental Rochester N. Y. in conjunction with inception onwards, to ensure legislation.
The Bath site is now initiatives to increase re-use and As customer sites become suppliers processes are properly assisting subsidiaries in raising recycling.
These two sites each more sophisticated, their plant controlled, resulting in consistent awareness of environmental issues generate over 200 tonnes of automation requirements change.
and implementation of essential packaging waste per annum.
During 2007, Rotork teams seek innovative means of The assembly process is the Rotork remains committed to Gears in Leeds implemented an offering customers the culmination of all the development meeting the requirements for EMS in accordance with the enhancements they demand.
Operator continued inclusion in the requirements of ISO 14001.
Representatives from all training programmes, mistakeFTSE4Good Index.
Rotork is very departments examine new designs proof assembly methods, clear Due to the nature of the Rotork conscious of the need for improved at every stage and from every instructions and world class business, one of the most environmental awareness and the perspective: compliance with performance monitoring tools significant aspects is packaging need to minimise the Groups customer requirements, ease of combine to control the build waste.
To address the impact and environmental impacts.
In 2006, assembly and cost optimisation.
These controls are well to minimise waste to landll, Rotork reported environmental KPI established at the main Rotork made recycling a reportable data for 29 subsidiaries.
The 2007 Control of the component manufacturing sites and are now KPI in 2006.
The last year has environmental report will include procurement process is crucial.
being rolled out to newer divisions shown continual improvement: KPI data from 33 subsidiaries.
Rotork purchases complex and more recent acquisitions.
Group recycling totals increased components to exacting quality Environmental reports can be to 57% in 2007 from 46% in standards, through global supply found on the Rotork web site 2006 and 38% in 2005. chains.
com Supplier Quality Assurance SQA EH ACTUATOR OIL PRODUCTION PLANT ISOLATION DUTY ON RISERS LOW POWER CONSUMPTION REQUIRED OUR PRODUCTS ARE BUILT TO WORK IN THE MOST HOSTILE AND CHALLENGING ENVIRONMENTS IN THE WORLD.
FORTUNATELY, OUR PEOPLE ARE TOO.
ANNUAL REPORT 22 & ACCOUNTS 2007 GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES ROTORK HAS LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH ITS CUSTOMER BASE AND THIS IS A KEY FEATURE OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL.
Rotork is a collection of strong We have begun the process of We have for some time Our underlying markets, oil & gas, businesses organised within a rening the divisional structure and strengthened our offering to the power industry and water divisional structure to provide the are now refocusing our efforts to customers by enhancing the range & waste water, are all looking best line of support to our maximise penetration of our with niche products through positive at the moment and we customers.
We have pro-active markets, and to develop offerings business acquisitions.
These have have confidence in our prospects management teams following for newer markets and those then been brought into for growth in all of these areas common goals, allowing where we are not traditionally mainstream use through our during the coming year and independent but co-ordinated strong.
This involves re-examining product development and beyond.
Investment in product development programmes parts of our product portfolio and marketing programmes.
This has infrastructure development across to give the best solutions to our how it integrates, where and how been a successful strategy for the world in pipelines, new customers problems.
We help we produce our products and Rotork and there are clear benets reneries, liqueed natural gas guide customers through the importantly how we offer ongoing in pursuing this where we are able and the constant need for technological advancements that support to customers after the to nd quality businesses that t improvements in energy supply, we offer to improve their initial sale is completed.
Rotork has Rotorks product philosophy and water availability and the need processes, enhance efficiency and long-term relationships with its where we can bring added value.
generally to move product through reduce the environmental impact customer base and this is a key valves, will continue to demand of their operations.
Our products feature of our business model.
have differing technical issues to It is the trust built up within these Our drive for improvements in overcome in achieving the required relationships that is fundamental technology in our approach to functionality.
However, through to the successful development of processes and systems, makes us co-ordinating our collective new and existing products.
well placed to take advantage of offering to the industries that we these developments.
serve, we are able to provide an homogenous integrated set of solutions that make Rotork the provider of choice for the world leaders in the oil & gas, power and water & waste water markets.
PETER FRANCE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER 29 FEBRUARY 2008 PAKSCAN DIGITAL CONTROL 240 ADDRESSES ON 20 KILOMETER LOOP FAULT TOLERANT LOOP REQUIRED WITH WEB ACCESS OUR PEOPLE AND PRODUCTS STAND AT THE FOREFRONT OF ACTUATION TECHNOLOGY.
