ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company has considered the The Group has identied its key ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Communicate best practice and guidelines on Social Responsibility negative environmental impacts to SYSTEM publish internal and external published by the Association of include the use of energy, water A major milestone was reached information detailing its aims British Insurers and takes full and packaging and the disposal of in the development of the and achievements: account of the signicance of waste.
The Group is continually environment management system Foster open communication environmental and ethical matters developing policies and procedures when the main Bath site achieved with employees, customers, in the conduct of its business and on these issues to minimise its independent verication of suppliers and other in its risk assessment processes.
impact on the environment, for compliance with ISO 14001:2004. stakeholders via both electronic Rotork remains fully committed to example, the Leeds manufacturing Independent assessor Envolve now publishing and face-to-face the principles laid down for its site recently introduced new waste annually audits the system.
inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index recycling systems.
a result of complying with this Within the 2007 Environmental and the 10 Principles of the UN standard waste sent to landll Rotork considers its positive Report at www.
com Global Compact of which it is from Bath is reduced substantially.
environmental impacts include its information and data can be a signatory.
This reduction is achieved by contribution to sustainable accessed about how Rotork minimising waste generation and ENVIRONMENTAL development and environmental managed its key environmental by increased recycling especially of The Group environmental policy improvement through the impacts.
The data includes wood and cardboard.
The number includes commitments to the products and services it sells.
information on gas and electricity of subsidiaries reporting their prevention of pollution, compliance The Groups products are used consumption, CO2 emissions, environmental data had increased with all relevant legal and other around the world to operate water consumption and waste from 29 to 33 when it was regulatory requirements and to the industrial valves in all including recycling of waste.
independently audited by Envolve continuous improvement of environments, including those for sustainability.
Rotork will, ETHICS AND VALUES environmental performance.
The which are hazardous, and in many through its Environmental Rotork is a signatory to the United environmental policy applies to all types of industries, including water Management System: Nations Global Compact and its 10 manufacturing sites in the Group purication, sewage, food Allocate formal environmental Universal Principles around human worldwide.
The complete policy processing, marine, irrigation, responsibilities to ensure rights, labour, environment, bribery can be found at www.
com power generation and oil & gas.
compliance with legislation: and corruption.
Support a culture of Rotork products help reduce are derived from the Universal consultation with employees, The Groups 2007 Environmental human error and thus potential Declaration of Human Rights, key stakeholders and other Report the Report can be environmental disasters, whilst which the Group supports and the interested parties: accessed in full at www.
com saving energy and resource.
International Labour Organisations Provide environmental under Environment.
Envolve Declaration of Fundamental Rotork is continuing to develop information, guidance and, Partnership Envolve were Principles and Rights at Work.
and produce energy efficient where necessary, provide engaged to provide an Rotork supports all United Nations products with improved training that meets best independent assessment of the efforts to ensure the effective performance.
practice: Report and this assessment is abolition of child forced Monitor, measure, audit and included within it.
Environmental Wherever possible, new products compulsory labour and will never seek continuous improvement performance data is included and components are marked with use any such labour in any of its in its environmental within the Report from all Rotorks the appropriate EU recycling operations worldwide.
At Rotork performance: major sales and service facilities symbols or labels.
Information has the rights of every employee are Work with external agencies around the world in addition to also been included in product respected.
The Company acts in and bodies to ensure continued manufacturing sites.
The Report handbooks about the materials the ways that ensure all employees are adoption of best practice also includes qualitative products contain and any specic treated with openness, mutual solutions in environmental information about environmental advice about disposal.
Everyone management: improvement programmes, working at Rotork will be treated achievements and initiatives.
fairly and without discrimination on the basis of race, gender, language or religion.
ANNUAL REPORT 32 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Rotorks Ethics and Values Financial support for training and COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Individual employees or groups of Statement can be accessed at learning programmes directly Rotork considers it important to employees also engage in Rotorks website www.
com related to employees working roles contribute and engage positively in community activities and the under the Investors section, are provided.
There are two full the communities in which it Charity Committee normally sub-section Responsibilities and time training ofcers at the Bath operates and particularly where it matches monies raised by Ethics.
Additionally, at that part site who co-ordinate product has substantial sites with relatively employees who undertake of the website, the Rotork Doing training initiatives for employees large numbers of employees, for appropriate charitable events the Right Thing document, which and customers.
Four year example its Bath site.
During the year the describes some of the benets apprenticeship programmes objectives include being a good Charity Committee paid the entry Rotork provides for employees underline the commitment to staff community neighbour as well as fee for employees participating and the wider community, can development for the long-term.
in the Bath half marathon and be accessed.
matched sponsorship sums raised HEALTH & SAFETY For many years Rotork has pursued by employees for their selected SUPPLIERS The Group actively promotes the a policy of community involvement charities.
Business integrity and fair dealing health, safety and welfare of through financial support and is key to the Groups relationships employees, site visitors and related fostering partnership with local The Charity Committee has agreed with suppliers and contractors.
parties and utilises a number of charitable and voluntary to a grant of 35,000 to the Many of the Groups suppliers policies and procedures to ensure organisations, trusts and local Research Institute for the Care of have long-term relationships with best practice.
A Charity the Elderly to provide a Rotork the Group.
Most key suppliers are Committee made up of employees room in a new research facility During 2007 we continued to roll registered to ISO 9000.
Supplier at all levels considers local now built at the Royal United out our health & safety audit development is ongoing and community charitable and similar Hospital in Bath.
Half of the award programme throughout the involves elements developed in requests at the Bath site.
Projects was paid in 2006 as the project Group and completed a total of the motor industry of the are then followed through with progressed and the balance in forty audits, equating to 83% of QS 9000 system.
visits and reports by employees 2007.
The Rotork room will be our key sites.
Our increased focus and feedback to the Charity one of four examination rooms EMPLOYEES has enabled more sites to be Committee.
Sponsorship is also that will be used on a daily basis Employees in the UK and many audited and audited to a more given to local youth and sporting for the Institutes research projects overseas subsidiary companies detailed level.
We have seen some clubs and to cultural and social and memory clinics.
The memory enjoy participation in long significant improvements being events.
There is also direct clinics provide a much valued standing Rotork profit sharing and achieved particularly within the engagement in community issues service to people in the Bath area.
Our for example, providing transport Like Rotork, the Institute is focus on health & safety will At the Bath plant, an Employee for charitable events in the area.
In committed to research as a means continue and we expect further Committee sits regularly to Bath a representative of the of progress in nding solutions to improvements across all facilities discuss staff issues and suggests Company sits on a local group practical problems.
With the aging during 2008. improvements in working supporting local initiatives for of the population, research to conditions and practices.
All issues cultural, social and economic improve the care of older people are reviewed by directors and development.
During the year the is of growing importance and acted on as appropriate.
Company became a participating Rotork is pleased to be involved member of an initiative of the with this initiative.
An Equal Opportunities policy is Engineering Development Trust applied throughout the Group and and will be sponsoring a relevant in almost all cases, it is nationals project being undertaken by pupils from those countries in which the in the sixth form of a local Bath Company operates who manage school studying science subjects.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 33 OTHER CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS TO BENEFIT FROM ROTORKS CHARITY COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED: Dorothy House St. John Ambulance Chernobyl Childrens Lifeline ME Research Three Ways School Diabetes UK The Eve Appeal Meningitis UK The Harbour Independent Living Centre Royal United Hospital Bath CT Scanner Campaign Childrens Hospice South West Stepping Stones The Grand Appeal Cancer Research UK Royal United Hospital Charitable Fund MS Society St. Peters Hospice Make-a-Wish Foundation Bliss Noahs Ark Preschool WaterAid 6 Peaks Challenge Special Care Baby Unit, Bristol Maternity Hospital Hop Skip & Jump Friends of Peasedown St. John Primary School Little Sisters of the Poor Bath Junior Gateway Club Macmillan Cancer Support Home Farm Trust Trinity Church of England Primary PTFA Weston Hospice The Mayors Christmas Party for children with special needs in Bath Smile 4rich Appeal Royal United Hospital Annual Patients Handbook Genesis Trust Dolphin Society Weston Day Club for the Elderly The SPACE Trust Teenage Cancer Trust Christian Lewis Trust heartLine Bath Cats & Dogs Home Percy Community Centre Bath Area Play Project Bath Institute of Mechanical Engineering Kampala School for the Physically Handicapped
