Corporate Responsibility 24 RPS is aware of its wider responsibilities.
Social Responsibility and Sustainability Conflicts of Interest The Groups success is in large part a RPS is committed to ensuring that it All RPS employees must avoid personal or result of its reputation as a trustworthy conducts its business in a responsible and professional activities and financial interests business partner that promotes sustainable way.
Taking care of our clients, that could conflict with their responsibilities sustainability within its clients projects and suppliers, employees, the wider community to the company.
If a conflict of interest also in its own organisation.
The Group is and the environment and conducting does arise then this must be acknowledged proud to have been included in the operations with a high standard of and openly reported.
Employees must not FTSE4Good index of leading companies business integrity are all essential to the seek personal gain from third parties, or since its inception in 2001. success of our business.
abuse their position within the company for personal gain.
Any gifts received must be Through its consultancy services The Group requires its entire staff to reported and acknowledged.
the Group assists clients to develop adopt high standards of behaviour in their environmentally, ecologically and socially daily professional conduct or when sustainable solutions to enhance travelling on business.
Employees are Community Involvement sustainable development.
Urban required to be sympathetic to the cultures RPS has supported community and regeneration projects have direct benefits of and comply with the laws and charitable fund raising with gifts in kind and for specific communities whilst other work regulations of the countries in which they financial contributions throughout the year, such as leakage management for the water operate, also giving due regard to the mostly at office level.
The company and its industry benefits society as a whole.
RPS safety, the well being and the human rights staff gave or raised 214,341 in charitable experience can help add benefits to the of all project personnel and relevant contributions during 2007.
Taking into clients vision and ensure their plans local communities.
account the 153,513 spent on academic become reality.
bursaries and educational initiatives not Clients Corporate responsibility decisionconnected to staff training, the Group's The Group aims to develop and maintain making is embedded throughout the total contribution to the communities in strong and lasting relationships with its company.
The Board leads the corporate which it operates was 367,854 0.1% of clients.
RPS endeavours to deliver all responsibility strategy.
JD Consulting and The services and reports to the required policies and objectives are developed to Scotia Group, acquired in December 2007, quality and specification within the time ensure that the Group operates in a contributed 6,972 to the total.
frame agreed with the client.
employees work with their clients to Our Planning & Development anticipate and develop their needs.
businesses in the UK and Ireland made charitable contributions and raised funds for community projects worth 78,184 and gave 116,131 in academic bursaries to undergraduate and postgraduate students studying at universities on both sides of the Irish Sea.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 25 Our Energy businesses in the UK, Environmental Management Provides a shared inter-office IT network and communications North America and Australia made RPS contributes to environmental technology that reduces the need for charitable donations and raised funds for management in many of the projects that business travel.
community projects worth in total it undertakes for clients.
The group advises 112,708 and contributed 25,398 for international bodies, governments, local In order to achieve this RPS: academic bursaries to students studying at authorities and private companies on Ensures employees are trained and universities in the UK and Australia.
The improving their environmental motivated to conduct their activities in largest single charitable donation, 15,450 performance.
A wide range of services is an environmentally responsible the same amount as in 2005 & 2006, was available from conducting ecological manner: made towards the Gondwana Link project, surveys through to carbon trading.
In the which seeks to protect, restore and sustain Reviews the policy on a regular basis organisation there are many employees the natural heritage in the Great Southern to take into account any new with professional qualifications in developments in legislation, or Region of Western Australia.
environmental management, some have environmental management or achieved international recognition for their At the end of 2007, RPS Group Plc shareholder expectations: and work and play a leading role in continued its corporate support for Tree professional bodies.
Allocates sufficient management Aid and its educational, tree planting and resources to ensure effective RPS seeks to manage and reduce its woodland conservation programmes in implementation of the environmental own environmental impact.
All businesses Sub-Saharan Africa by making a charitable policies.
in the Group are encouraged to put in donation of 12,500 towards its work in place systems to ensure that they identify Mali, where RPS has worked on oil and gas Some parts of the businesses have and reduce potential environmental exploration and mineral extraction studies achieved ISO14001, the internationally liabilities.
Deforestation in this part recognised environmental management of Africa presents particularly acute system.
In January 2008 RPS Water Using these management techniques, problems for some of the world's most achieved ISO14001 registration for the RPS endeavours to: vulnerable traditional communities.
This was a Comply with all relevant national and significant achievement that has already During 2007, RPS took the decision to regional legislation as a minimum resulted in substantial environmental commit 45,000 per annum in 2008 and standard: benefits as well as reinforcing the 2009 to establish an Urban Design environmental message to its 650 staff.
Comply with codes of practice and Scholarship working in partnership with In 2008, other businesses in the Group other requirements such as those the publishers of the Architects Journal specified by regulators and our clients: will be working towards ISO14001.
and in association with Design for London.
Utilise suppliers that offer products RPS produces relatively little waste: The five design scholarships each year will which are sustainable, recyclable or we also have recycling facilities at most not only contribute to the development of environmentally sensitive wherever of our offices.
the profession but will benefit five very practicable and economic: different local communities in London within which one of the successful scholars Promote practical energy efficiency will apply creative ideas for urban renewal and waste minimisation measures: and in consultation with local people and other stakeholders.
Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued 26 Climate Change Energy Management energy management campaign to reduce consumption.
RPS staff have extensive skills which enable Consumption of energy - primarily us to understand and advise upon the electricity and natural gas - in offices As part of its long-term planning causes and effects of climate change.
We has a direct impact on carbon emissions.
strategy RPS will be introducing minimum have undertaken many projects which In 2008, RPS will continue its programme environmental standards for new offices involve developing policies and schemes to measure the impact of energy that will also be taken into consideration designed to reduce the carbon emissions consumption and introduce a Group-wide whilst refurbishing offices.
We anticipate our workload initiative to reduce consumption.
medium term this should make a in this area will increase materially in significant contribution to the reduction In 2006, RPS started switching coming years.
in the total energy demand.
electricity supply contracts to Green RPS has set itself the challenge of tariffs.
These are energy sources that are reducing its per capita energy use by 5% either derived from renewable sources each year.
This will have the effect of such as wind, capture waste energy such reducing our carbon emissions.
We as landfill gas or are from good quality estimate that in 2007 excluding use of combined heat and power plants.
At the public transport and air travel we end of 2007, 52% of electricity purchased generated about 6,850 tonnes by RPS in the UK was from a Green tariff.
This will rise in 2008 as more contracts 2 are switched.
The energy consumption for each office has been determined, with the largest 15 offices responsible for 70% of all consumption.
These will be targeted, together with offices that have a higher than average consumption based on their floor area, with energy audits and an RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 27 Transport and Vehicle Management Shareholders During 2007, there has been a significant investment in video conferencing facilities The Group conducts its operations in accordance with what it believes are within the Group that is beginning to help principles of good corporate governance.
Our aim is to provide shareholders with reduce company travel, nevertheless some a return on investment that rewards their financial commitment.
The Board of the projects undertaken by RPS involve understands the importance of strong cash flows and earnings and develops its considerable travel.
Other projects require business in such a way as to grow these in a sustainable way as far as possible.
transportation to and from the clients The Board endeavours to maintain involvement of shareholders by keeping site.
Employees are encouraged to use them informed on major actions or decisions affecting their investment, through public transport where possible, and some a year-round Investor Relations programme.
RPS employees in possession of offices have put in place formalised information which, if disclosed, could affect the market price of its shares are transport plans.
prohibited from trading in securities until after public disclosure of such information.
At the end of 2007, there were 354 company cars in the UK.
These have an The Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and average emission of 154g CO km which Nomination Committee attend the Annual General Meeting, and are available to 2 accounted for approximately 1,004 tonnes answer shareholders questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Nonof CO. RPS is introducing a new Executive Director are available to discuss governance, strategy and any issues of 2 company car policy that will include an concern or interest with any major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance incentive for drivers to select a vehicle Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
They both attend the Annual General Meeting.
2 There is a standing board agenda item on investor relations and the views of In addition, there were 475 vans, shareholders in so far as they are known are disclosed to the Board as a whole.
mainly associated with leakage detection This gives the Board an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of contracts for water companies.
These major shareholders of the Group.
were responsible for 2,852 tonnes of CO. 2 RPS has set limits on van engine sizes to reduce emissions and is currently investigating further measures.
RPS carries out extensive work around the world and, especially in the Energy business, there is a substantial requirement for international travel.
In 2008 a monitoring programme has been started to measure the impact that air travel has on RPS CO emissions.
