The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 38 Business review | Corporate responsibility During 2007 our focus has been on the consideration of Sages impact on our world and the areas on which we should focus our corporate responsibility efforts.
Management of corporate Our businesses are encouraged and We have an equal opportunities policy that responsibility during 2007 supported in undertaking positive corporate applies across the Group and this prohibits Sage is committed to carrying out its responsibility activities within a common discrimination on grounds such as race, business activities in a socially responsible policy framework regarding employment, gender, religion, sexual orientation or manner.
It is the role and responsibility of the community and environmental matters disability.
We operate in a number of Board to take into account all aspects of provided by the Group, including: geographic regions, adhering to all relevant social, environmental and ethical issues in Treating employees fairly and equitably: laws that apply and also supporting its discussions and decision-making, and it Operating ethically and with integrity: internationally accepted standards, including receives reports at each Board meeting from Respecting basic human rights: those on human rights.
Our policy includes, Group executives on relevant developments Seeking to limit our impact on where practical, the continued employment in these areas.
In order to verify that, as a the environment: of those who may become disabled during Group of companies, we are working to Being a caring member of their employment.
Our policies ensure that all these standards, we require our businesses our communities.
decisions about the appointment, treatment to report on key indicators on a quarterly A summary and examples of this activity and promotion of employees are based basis.
The Risk Committee, consisting are detailed in this report.
of executive management, identifies and considers any risks to the business of the Employment Our guiding principles continue to drive our Group from social, ethical and environmental We strive to ensure our people are proud culture and the Sage way of doing things.
issues and reports on any such risks to the to work for our Group.
We encourage and Simplicity, Agility, Innovation, Integrity and Audit Committee of the Board.
Should any foster a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship Trust are at the heart of behaviour in many risks be identified, the Risk Committee and team spirit within a supportive parts of our business, and we continue to monitors the steps being taken by operating environment.
It is our goal to bring out the work with our people to make these cultural companies to reduce such risks.
We have best in our people and to pursue practices traits ubiquitous.
also set up a new steering committee that are sensitive to the needs of our people.
on corporate responsibility matters, led We now employ over 13,900 people 2006: by the Director of Human Resources 13,000, and our employees are at the heart and Corporate Communications.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 1 HOPE committee Focus: Local organisations Location: Saint Petersburg, Florida US Employment priorities 2007 Training, development and reward 1 Each year the Saint Petersburg offices HOPE committee focuses their attention on Ensuring equality of opportunity, fostering programmes for employees at all levels local organisations, schools and employees diversity and providing a safe workplace: continually developed and improved in and their families who are in need and would Encouraging our people to reach their full line with business strategy and guiding not receive significant donations from other potential through training, career principles: larger charitable organisations.
This year they donated school supplies to Woodlawn development and promotion from Employee surveys undertaken Elementary School which is close to the office within where possible: in all of our larger businesses: and considered to be an in-need school.
Communicating openly and transparently Enhanced internal communication Substantial supplies were sent including school with our people and taking into account channels with CEO webcasts, equipment, stationery and a washer and dryer to launder the uniforms of the children.
The their feedback: introduction of podcasts and other committee received a flood of thank you notes Recognising and rewarding our people media to enable greater connection from children at the school which now fill a for their contribution: and knowledge sharing: bulletin board in the office.
Embedding our principles in all of New employee portal to improve As part of their support for Woodlawn, Sage our businesses.
communication Portugal : employees participated in The Great American Employee consultation forum established Teach-In, where employees spent time in the Examples of activities undertaken in South Africa: school talking to pupils about working life, Enhanced policies in many countries such Milestones awards programme in North career aspirations, hobbies and other topics of interest to the students.
as maternity in the UK and flexible working America, South Africa, UK and Poland in Portugal: to reward long service: New Wellness programme and employee Awards schemes to reward behaviour handbook launched in North America: aligned to the principles introduced UK, New or refreshed management Germany, Spain, Poland, South Africa : development programmes introduced Employee creativity training France.
in several countries: A talent management strategy to harness top talent in the businesses across the Group: English lessons available to employees who wish to learn Portugal, Spain : Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review About Sage Corporate responsibility The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 40 Business review | Corporate responsibility Awards achieved include: Region Awards won in 2007 UK & Ireland Software satisfaction award SageCRM Information age award Sage 1000 European contact centre award Real Finance FD excellence award software provider of the year Mainland Europe Customer service Golden Laurel Award Best HR software at HRM GigaCon Best brand integration eBay ecommerce award SME engagement award Burer ERP system of the year North America CRM satisfaction award Healthcare partner of the year Value Added Reseller business company of the year Rest of World Best customer service award National payroll consultant of the year Our marketplace Our community the use of electronic documents such as It is our aim to be a trusted adviser to It is our policy to be an integral part of the marketing literature, operating manuals, our customers, a respected and admired communities in which we are based.
We are payslips, etc to minimise print.
company in our industry and a leader in committed to developing relationships with encouraging the growth and development those communities, where appropriate, We make maximum use of internet of SMEs through the effective use of through voluntary activities and donations.
and telephone based tools to manage information technology.
Our businesses have fostered close international meetings in order to minimise relationships with many communities through air travel where possible and our businesses Customer satisfaction is our primary focus local initiatives and numerous donations have have introduced policies and incentives to which we monitor through various been made to local, national and international reduce car use.
methods, including: charities and community foundations.
Customer advocacy This year we have reviewed our approach and recommendation: Environment and climate change to managing our environmental impact and Loyalty surveys: It is our policy to ensure, by encouraging during 2008 we will ask all of our businesses Customer support phone calls handling environmental best practice in the business, to measure both their carbon emissions and an average of 32,000 calls per day: that our operations have as little waste production with a view to making Customer awareness events and environmental impact as is consistent reductions.
discussion groups to enable customers with our business needs.
The effect on and Sage employees to meet face the environment of the Groups activities is Looking ahead to face: monitored, where appropriate, with regard Corporate responsibility offers Sage the Surveying SMEs to understand to the low overall environmental impact of our opportunity to not only act as a good citizen their business issues.
primary activities as a software publisher and but also to support our 2010 goals, service provider.
We work to promote particularly: We actively promote the use of the internet environmental care, to increase our Be the most trusted brand in our markets: in business, particularly in the area of understanding of environmental issues Be the most admired employer within government submissions.
Our awareness of and to spread environmental best practice our markets.
the importance of prompt payment to small throughout our businesses.
business is demonstrated by our commitment To do this we have elected to take a simple, to pay customers and suppliers on fair terms.
Activities undertaken by our businesses to pragmatic approach which will enable us to: minimise environmental impact during 2007 Focus on areas most meaningful to Sage: include recycling programmes and use of Measure our progress: recycled products where practical in all our Build in flexibility for our businesses.
regions and the continued development in The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 2 3 Softline Pastel Sage Day 2007 Focus: Working with schools to increase Focus: Creating a public library IT literacy in young people in Paraguay Location: South Africa Location: Spain Inherent in our guiding principles is Sages The three areas of focus for 2008 are: 2 During 2007 Softline Pastel supplied 5,000 secondary schools throughout South Africa commitment to acting as a responsible with free educational accounting software corporate citizen, being aware of our impact People and educator training.
as a business and seeking to enhance the Talent, integrity, employee engagement positive and minimise the negative.
Targets for improvement will be set locally The Pastel Certified School Programme is designed to enhance and encourage the and approved at Group level.
teaching of accounting to young people, It is possible to undertake a raft of initiatives equipping them with vital skills for adult life and actions under the remit of corporate Environment and helping them to find jobs when they responsibility.
In 2008, Sage will focus Carbon footprint, waste reduction leave school.
on the key areas where we believe we All our businesses will be required to In South Africa there is a skills shortage in can make a difference, in a way that is measure and report carbon emissions and IT and this is exacerbated by challenges meaningful to our business strategy and waste volumes and to target one area for such as lack of funding in schools to buy our people.
equipment and a lack of IT education in the curriculum.
In industry, there is a lack of qualified accountants and book-keepers with Although the standards established by local Industry the skills to aid small and growing businesses legislation will apply as a minimum, we aim Enhance position as a business with the necessary support to grow their to achieve best practice in the local context that supports the SME businesses.
So this becomes an economic as well as an educational issue.
of every country in which we operate, and Our businesses will take a pro-active stance share across the Group so that we to develop an approach that will be most The aim of the Softline Pastel project is to help implement continuous improvement.
meaningful in their local markets and which enlarge the talent pool by equipping youngsters will support the Sage Brand.
with computing and accounting skills relevant in modern industry and thus help build the It is our policy to set out high level South African economy in a very practical way.
expectations in three key areas of corporate We will report on progress in these areas responsibility, and for our businesses to next year.
3 For Sage Day 2007 employees in Spain select the aspects of these in which they got behind a cause to create a public library in Paraguay to provide children and adults will invest their resources.
The fourth area of with access to books for education and self community and charity activity will be entirely development.
Together they donated over locally driven and no Group level policy 700 books to help create the new library.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review About Sage Corporate responsibility
