SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility 39 The Group is committed to continuous improvement in its The Group operates in a particularly risky working environment Corporate Social Responsibility activities.
and the Board is proud of its good safety record.
Despite this, the Board will continue to try and improve both health and safety In accordance with the ABI reporting guidelines the Board takes awareness and its safety record throughout the Group.
regular account of the significance of social, environmental, ethical and health and safety matters to the business of the Group.
There The Group has focused on gaining accreditation for its Safety, is in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control Health and Environmental System and has achieved certification to process which identifies and assesses the significant risks to the OHSAS 18001 and BS EN ISO 14001.
Groups short and long term value arising from such matters.
Further site development for improved logistics and enhanced The Board recognises its Corporate Social Responsibilities to its product output were implemented throughout 2007. shareholders, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
Employees SeverfieldRowen aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest Environment calibre of employees and encourages their development and The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its business initiative.
and its processes on the natural environment and the community Employees are regularly informed of matters concerning the at large by complying with all laws, directives and regulations performance and future developments of the Group.
pertaining to its field of operations.
The Board takes account of employees interests when making It works with the local authorities to ensure it complies with all decisions and suggestions from employees aimed at improving the permits and authorisations required to carry out its operations.
During 2007 SeverfieldReeve Structures obtained a gold award via The Group has continued with its established policy of employing the British Construction Steel Association Sustainability Charter.
This disabled persons where practicable and endeavours to ensure that is a milestone achievement and is the initial step in the Groups they benefit from training and career opportunities in common ambition to generate an efficient sustainable business model.
In the event that employees become disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Health and Safety Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
The Board is committed to high standards of health and safety The Board considers training of employees to be very important for all of its employees.
and consequently has established a training department to operate The Group has established a fully functional health and safety this particular function.
department which has full responsibility throughout the Group for This department is manned by experienced training officers whose developing and maintaining a positive health and safety culture for prime purpose is to provide adequate training to new employees all aspects of the Groups operations.
Each operating subsidiary has and to update all employees with the continuing changes in a health and safety director who reports to the main Board via legislation regarding training and health and safety.
monthly Health and Safety meetings.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
