Our corporate responsibilities Severn Trent Plcs decision to focus on water also shifted the focus of Key greenhouse gas emissions Severn Trent Water our corporate responsibility CR strategy in 2006 07.
Our new strategy on CR is to support the companys drive for excellence by achieving the highest standards on a range of CR subject areas.
Electricity use 353 Those subjects include: health and safety: climate change: the local environment: engagement with local communities: business ethics: Electricity use 364 diversity: and investing in people.
Further details of our CR strategy, values and action plans are set out on the Severn Trent website -66 Offset by energy generation www.
Indicators presented in this CR section have been independently -67 Offset by energy generation verified by the external consultants Acona as part of our CR verification programme.
-100 0 100 200 300 400 thousand tonnes CO e 2 Putting CR at the heart of the business 2006 07 2005 06 To be effective, a companys CR strategy must be fully integrated with its core business planning.
The strategic and organisational change that took place within Severn Trent in 2006 07 has reinforced this.
Our Water Resources Plan, sets out our water resources investment As we describe elsewhere in this Annual Report, Severn Trent Water has programme until 2010 and presents a 25 year development plan to adopted 20 KPIs by which it will measure performance and set targets.
Whilst we have committed to delivering a 17 Ml d reduction in Many of these indicators link directly to the companys CR strategy leakage over the AMP4 period, our analysis to 2030 shows there is a for example, the KPIs on health and safety, leakage, net energy use, potential need for new strategic water resource developments and pollution incidents and employee motivation.
This ensures that CR is at further leakage reductions to counter the effects of climate change on the very core of Severn Trent Waters activities.
Additional CR objectives the supply demand balance for water.
We therefore aim to carry out have been set to ensure focus across all other elements of our CR work during AMP4 and AMP5 to understand better the climate change strategy.
Water Technologies and Services has adopted quarterly CR impacts and to plan longer term feasibility studies that will ensure water KPIs in the areas of health and safety, climate change, the supply chain supply to our customers at least cost to them, whilst still considering and business ethics focusing on its core business.
the longer term social and environmental impact of future increased water abstraction.
A key part of this process will be to continue to In addition, the companys Corporate Responsibility Committee, which reduce demand and promote water efficiency.
now meets bimonthly, has introduced a more structured approach to reviewing all areas of our CR performance through the new KPIs and Workplace objectives.
Over the past two years we have written much about our work to strengthen our internal business culture and ethics.
This work continued As several of our core CR issues now appear in the companys new in 2006 07 making Severn Trent a more open and transparent culture, KPIs, our progress on them in 2006 07 has already been described where there are no barriers to evaluating performance, whether good earlier in this report, in the Performance Review.
Below we look at other or bad.
CR subject areas that have been important to Severn Trents activities and focus in 2006 07.
By the end of March 2007, over 550 Severn Trent Water senior and middle managers had attended a training workshop on ethical decision Environment making.
We designed this programme with the help of the Institute of We welcome that climate change has risen up the political and public Business Ethics.
It gives managers a set of principles and tools to deal agenda in 2006 07.
Severn Trent Water has been engaged in planning with ethical challenges in their day to day work.
The next phase is to for a changing climate for a number of years.
We have built a leading extend the training across the organisation, to reach all employees.
reputation in this area with key stakeholders such as the Carbon Trust.
In 2005, we published the Carbon Management report supported by Water Technologies and Services has also implemented a business the Carbon Trust.
This year we have worked on updating this to take ethics training program.
Employees worldwide attended Ethical into account the changes within the business.
Behaviour at Work training which included the Code of Conduct, Business Ethics and Whistleblowing.
US staff were in addition Our work on climate change focuses on two main aspects: mitigating involved in Fair Treatment training focusing on maintaining an our impact on climate change: and adapting to it.
In turn, mitigation has appropriate workplace.
two main aspects: energy efficiency initiatives: and in-house renewable energy production, primarily biogas CHP.
The effects of our work in both Another mechanism for improving our business is strengthening the these areas are reflected in our KPI on net energy use.
training we give to new managers.
In Severn Trent Water we are now taking a more individual approach to new manager development and Our work on climate change adaptation involves trying to assess in addition to an induction Stepping Into Management, there are a how climate change might impact Severn Trent Waters operations and variety of modules for managers new to their role.
Water supply and sewer flooding are two areas of particular importance.
18 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance review Our employees Group health and safety Our most important obligation to our employees is to ensure their safety and this is covered in the KPIs.
We also have other obligations to 24% improvement in RIDDOR our workforce.
They include: promoting diversity, investing in training, promoting work life balance: and enabling participation in our incident rate employee share ownership schemes.
Severn Trent Water launched an important development scheme in Per 1,000 2006 07.
Developing Talent is a structured and inclusive two year employees development programme for people with high potential in the early stages of their career.
Unlike its predecessor, the old graduate scheme, 2006 07 7.1 our new programme is now open to current employees, graduates and 2005 06 9.3 non graduates as well as externally recruited graduates.
RIDDOR Reportable Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations We extended the 2006 apprenticeship recruitment campaign and saw 1,000 applications for 40 roles.
The apprentices chosen joined Community 49 other trainees in distribution and sewerage who began their Severn Trent Waters relationship with the regional community is development programmes earlier in the year.
Some of them will another facet of our CR strategy.
Our engagement with the community be the first in the UK to earn qualifications under the proposed takes several forms: community investment, community liaison: and Water Apprenticeship Framework.
In Water Technologies and Services a training program has been Our community investment programme focuses on three areas: specially designed to identify tomorrows technical experts.
Successful the natural environment, education: and health and well being.
We applicants receive a personal development plan and time to develop continued our work with nine partner charities that operate at a local technical capabilities.
A diverse workforce is important to the success of the company and we We also made a substantial grant to the Severn Trent Trust Fund, as in promote this in our working practices.
There is always scope to improve previous years.
This independent charity was established in 1997 to our diversity performance and our measures to do this include: help customers in genuine financial difficulty apply for help with paying monitoring diversity profiles: targeted recruitment initiatives: diversity water and other utility bills.
The trust fund helps customers to become awareness training: and benchmarking our policies and practices good payers.
Our annual funding of the trust is 3.6 million per year.
Water Technologies and Services programs such as Affirmitive Action in North America ensure that Our education programme aims to raise awareness of the importance managers have a diverse applicant pool.
of water and water efficiency.
We have continued two main initiatives: our educational centres and BeSmart, an education programme Severn Trent Water has positive working relationships with recognised which teaches school children about water efficiency.
Regular meetings with trade unions provide opportunities over 25,000 children visited our educational centres, while 46 schools for ongoing dialogue and enhancement of their understanding of the took part in BeSmart.
Independent research into the two initiatives, commissioned in Marketplace 2006 07, shows that both are successful in promoting the health Severn Trent Water has been working to develop its supply chain aspects of drinking water and the importance of water efficiency.
Significant It is clear that children that have direct experience of a Severn Trent contractors suppliers have been required for some years to provide Water education initiative are more engaged, active and vocal about information on their health and safety performance and their their water behaviours, concluded the researchers.
In 2006 we recognised a need to build on that.
Therefore, in 2006 07 Severn Trent Water During the year, the BeSmart programme won a West Midlands began developing a new standardised risk based approach to supply Business in the Community Big Tick award for investing in young chain assessment, focusing not just on health and safety and people.
It also won a Utility Week award for best community initiative.
environment, but also on human rights, bribery and corruption.
We have been working with Nottingham Trent University in the development of a Supply Chain Diploma in Management Studies a first in the Utility sector.
The course participants represent all areas of the supply chain, both internal and external.
