Corporate citizenship Bags are now paper, not plastic, in Primark stores Primark has taken a leading position in the move to reduce the environmental impact of packaging.
Our stores now use paper bags manufactured from recycled paper and printed with modern environmentally friendly inks.
Health & social care programmes at Illovo, Africa Access to healthcare is provided to all employees and their dependants, either through a network of group-run facilities or by the provision of insurance schemes.
The purpose and values of the business We consider the principles of corporate Associated British Foods plc is an international citizenship to be an essential part of our food, ingredients and retail group with annual sales of 6.8bn and 85,000 employees.
They form part of our long-term The group is one of Europes largest food strategy and their application across the companies with a wide range of successful brands and products in the food sector, and group is under constant review.
an increasingly strong presence in advanced research and technology, where we are turning natural products into innovative ingredients for the food, personal care and pharmaceutical industries.
A significant supplier of branded and non-branded grocery products and a leading textile retailer, we have major businesses around the world.
Our aim is to concentrate our energies and expertise to achieve strong, sustainable leadership positions in markets that offer potential for profitable growth.
We are also constantly searching for more efficient and more profitable ways to manufacture food and ways to employ our technology in other related sectors.
As a responsible corporate citizen, we aim to act in a socially responsible manner at all 24 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Primarks focus on ethical trading standards Primark is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI as part of its structured and transparent approach to ensuring its suppliers comply with a Code of Conduct.
The implementation of an extensive audit programme, undertaken by independent specialists, has been strengthened by the addition of our own Ethical Trading Managers based in the main producing regions.
Fairtrade sugar from Billingtons Billingtons Fairtrade sugars are sourced from Malawi and Zambia in Africa.
The Fairtrade premium paid helps fund development projects such as providing safe drinking water, medicines, electricity to farms and the building of community health clinics.
The groups organisational structure Employees Human rights managers must take account is highly decentralised and as such our Our employees are our most crucial resource, of the core International Labour Organisation businesses develop procedures appropriate and therefore we abide by the following labour conventions and strive to observe to and compliant with local laws, culture and principles: the UN Declaration on Human Rights, by operating conditions but within the overall respecting the dignity and human rights of our context of minimum overriding principles.
Equal opportunities we are committed employees and in particular as stated below: to offering equal opportunities to all people Overriding principles in their recruitment, training and career Universal respect for an observance of Following the introduction of new provisions development, having regard for their human rights and fundamental freedoms concerning the duties of directors under the particular aptitudes and abilities.
Full and for all without discrimination as to race, Companies Act 2006, directors must act in fair consideration is given to applicants with sex, language or religion.
the way they consider, in good faith, would be disabilities and every effort is made to give most likely to promote the long-term success employees who become disabled whilst We remunerate fairly with respect to skills, of the Company for the benefit of its members employed by the Company an opportunity performance, our peers and local conditions.
In so doing, the directors should for retraining.
have regard to a number of factors listed in Communication we will brief employees that Act.
Those factors include having regard Health and safety we consider health and their representatives on all relevant to the Companys employees, the need to and safety as equal in importance to that matters on a regular basis.
foster the Companys business relationships of any other function of the Company and with suppliers and others, the impact of the its business objectives.
The policy and full Security the security of our staff and Companys operations on the community global report is available on the Company customers is paramount and we will at all and the environment and the desirability website at www.
co. uk times take the necessary steps to minimise of the Company maintaining a reputation risks to their safety.
for high standards of business conduct.
Harassment we will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical harassment in the With this in mind, we have reafrmed our workplace.
We expect incidents of harassment commitment to a number of overriding principles.
to be reported to the appropriate human resources director.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Corporate citizenship continued Almost half the power used by ABF comes from renewable resources In Zambia, the cane-trash in the elds is not burnt but is collected, baled, ground and mixed at the factory with bagasse, the brous residue remaining after the extraction of sucrose from sugar cane.
This combined material is then used as a bio-renewable energy source in sugar factory boilers to generate electricity.
This meets the power requirements of the sugar factory and the crop irrigation systems.
ACH supports breast cancer charity Under ACHs Bake for the Cure programme, consumers register the purchase of selected products or submit favourite recipes using ACH brands such as Fleischmanns Yeast, and the business will donate a minimum of $250,000 to the breast cancer charity Susan G Komen for the Cure.
Ethical business practices impartiality of employees, must be formally on the basis of inside information is prohibited, Competition we are committed to free declared to a senior manager.
Examples as is the passing on of insider information and fair competition and we will compete of this include owning shares in business to anyone who uses it to purchase or sell strongly but honestly complying with all partners and personal or family involvement securities.
Insider trading is illegal and may local competition laws.
Bribery we will not condone the offering or Business gifts and hospitality gifts, other Food safety receiving of bribes or other such facilitating than items of very small intrinsic value, We recognise and acknowledge that consumer payments to any person or entity for the are not accepted.
Employees who receive confidence in the quality and safety of our food purpose of obtaining or retaining business hospitality must not allow themselves to reach products is essential.
To this end a high priority or inuencing political decisions.
a position whereby they might be deemed is placed on all aspects of food safety.
by others to have been inuenced in making Political donations financial donations are a business decision as a consequence.
To manage food safety risks, our sites operate not permitted to political parties within the However, giving and receiving reasonable food safety systems which are regularly reviewed European Union.
The consent of the Chief business-related products, marketing to ensure they remain effective, including Executive is required for any other donation materials and entertainment are permitted.
compliance with all regulatory requirements for to a political party.
Our food products are Insider trading employees are prohibited made to high standards regardless of where Condentiality and accuracy of information from buying or selling shares or other they are manufactured.
We will always put the condentiality of information received securities such as bonds, derivatives or food safety before economic considerations.
in the course of business will be respected spreadbets on the basis of inside information.
and never be used for personal gain.
False Inside information is dened as information Environment information will not be given in the course that is not available to the public and includes We recognise the impact that our businesses of commercial negotiations.
financial data, plans for mergers, acquisitions have on the environment and, as a minimum, or divestitures, changes in dividends, new we comply with current applicable legislation Conict of interest any personal interest products or major management changes.
of the countries in which we operate.
which may prejudice, or might reasonably Trading in shares in Associated British Foods plc, be deemed by others to prejudice, the or any other publicly traded company, 26 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 AB Agri WildCare scheme In conjunction with Waitrose, Dairy Crest and The Wildlife Trusts, AB Agri is acting as the independent consultant and farm assessor for the WildCare scheme.
This sustainable supply chain scheme delivers Waitrose Select Farm Milk from British farms chosen for their high standard of milk quality and their commitment to encouraging wildlife.
Stakeholder relationships Suppliers The Gareld Weston Foundation was set up Customers We carry out our business honestly, ethically by the late W. Gareld Weston in 1958.
It is one We seek to be honest and fair in our and with respect for the rights and interests of the UKs foremost philanthropic organisations relationships with our customers, and above of our suppliers.
We settle our bills promptly, and derives a substantial proportion of its funds all to provide the standards of product and being a signatory to the Better Payment Practice from its interests in Associated British Foods plcs service that have been agreed, whilst at the Code and we co-operate with suppliers to ultimate holding company, Wittington Investments same time offering value for money.
At all improve quality and efficiency.
Further information can be found on times we take all reasonable steps to ensure develop relationships with supplier companies www.
org the safety and quality of the goods or services consistent with these basic principles, and that we provide.
specically with respect to human rights and Applying our principles conditions of employment.
Where supplier These business principles apply to all our Shareholders audits show shortcomings in any of these employees and are a minimum standard for We are committed to increasing shareholder areas, we strive to encourage a programme their behaviour: operating companies may have value, and we communicate our achievements of improvement leading to compliance.
Failure to comply with and prospects to our shareholders in an Responsibility for specic supply codes and our principles may result in disciplinary action.
Apart from agreements rests with individual companies.
the annual general meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by way The wider community of the annual report and accounts and the We recognise our responsibilities as a member half yearly interim report.
significant matters of the communities in which we operate and relating to the trading or development of the encourage our operating companies to engage business are disseminated to the market with the local community in their areas of operation.
by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
Examples of this include cultural and community The Company also holds meetings with its sponsorship in Australia through George Weston major institutional shareholders to discuss Foods and the community activities of British the Companys operations.
Sugar through the British Sugar Foundation whose Policy and Guidelines are reproduced in full on the British Sugar website.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
