THE BUSINESSAND THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer, healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
In particular Smith & Nephew offers products throughout the continuum of care for patients, not only with osteoarthritis from early intervention through primary joint replacements to revisions, but also in the wider field of injuries to knee, hip, shoulderand overall boneand skinrepair.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other professional healthcare customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Cost effective solutions are achieved through the use of advanced technology.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits of the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician andpatient and contributeto morecost effective .
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew has a low impact on the environmentand is committed to improvingthe management of its environmental, socialand economicimpact.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since2001.
 andviews sustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The eighth Sustainability Report, which gives detailed information, will be published on the Groups website at the end of May 2008 at www.
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by four leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2007 the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and continues to be a leader in its sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good and in France, Vigeo publishes an assessment report on Smith & Nephew used by some of the leading investment banks in Europe.
In 2007 the Group was namedinthe German Global Challenges Index.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards is under continuous development.
Smith & Nephews policy is to not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Groups policy is to comply with the industry standards set by Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactionsand conformto IFRS.
The Groups Code of Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
This is regularly reviewed and a revised code was published on the Smith & Nephew website in March 2008.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
Since 2005, the Group has operated a Code of BusinessEthicsand a  employees.
Innovation Smith & Nephew uses innovation to create cost-effective products and techniques which deliver benefits for clinicians and patients.
The Groups scientific and technical leadership combined with an understanding of the needs of clinicians, enables Smith & Nephew to produce unique new products with distinct advantages in clinical performanceand cost-effectiveness.
The Groups research and development strategy is based on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Fundamental scientific work and the development of new technologiesare used to create newproductsand  future.
It is the Groups practice to develop platform technologies on which to build product ranges.
This provides an efficientandcost effective means .
16 Health, Safety and Environment Management The Groups health, safety and environmental HSE policy was reviewed in 2007.
This policy sets out the Groupsvision, aim, commitmentand  to HSE.
: give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and community to create a sustainable business: provideand maintaina safe and , : requireeachSmith& Nephewbusiness to achievethe HSE standards specified bythe policy: seek to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, : and recognise, promote and reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractors and visitors to worksafely and followprocedures.
In 2007, the advanced wound management factory in Hull, England and the orthopaedics sites in Memphis, Tennessee and Tuttlingen, Germany maintained accreditation of their environmental management systems under IS014001.
All Group manufacturing and research sites have designed environmental management systems to deliver costsavings and benefits to the environment.
In October 2007, the advanced wound management business based in Hull, England won the UK Manufacturer of the Year award run by Manufacturer magazine.
As well as the overall Manufacturer of the Year award they also won the awards for i World Class Manufacturing, for the sustained and progressive achievement of world class manufacturing standards, ii Manufacturing Operations, for achieving world class manufacturing standards through the interaction of machines, processing steps and tasks to be performed, and iii Skills and Productivity, in recognition of initiatives that have increased productivity through the enhancement of employee skills and improving the perception of manufacturing careers.
Smith & Nephew was also a finalist in the Energy and Environmentaward.
Manufacturing processes are relatively low in environmental impact.
Particular emphasis is placed on close control of energy, water consumption and waste in manufacturing and research and development.
Improvement targets are set and performance is measured against these targets.
ii Number ofaccidents resultinginaperson being unable toworkthe followingday per 200,000 hoursworked.
iii Number of cases of work related injuries per 200,000 hours worked which are required to be recorded under Occupation Safety and Health Administration Regulations.
The same criteria have been used at all sites whether or not the regulations apply.
Data was not collected in2003 and 2004  years.
Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated from the energy consumption and are dependent on the mix of energy used.
As a result of that mix, emissionsfell slightlyin2007 despite a slight increaseintotal energyconsumption.
The fall in non-hazardous waste arose from the waste reduction measures and greater emphasis on recycling at the advanced woundmanagement factoryinHull, England.
The 2004 hazardous waste figure excludes a spillage of chrome plating materials which occurred at the manufacturing site in Memphis, Tennessee.
Working closely with the state authorities, prompt action was taken resulting in a total of 920 tonnes of affected soil being removed from the site to eliminate any possible contamination.
17 Group Description All parts of the Group showed a reduction in hazardous waste.
The largest contribution to the reduction came from the advanced wound management in Hull, England where there has been a greater emphasis on handling andrecyclingofall types of waste.
The Groups lost time accident frequency rate is unchanged despite a significant increase within the advanced wound management sites.
The sites concerned continue to score highly in the Health Safety and Environment Audit Scheme and the downturn is attributed to a period of great change within the Group rather than a deterioration in health and safety management.
Specific programmes to address unsafe behaviours have been put inplace for2008.
In the 2007 Sustainability Report, Smith & Nephew published targets for these environmental measurements for the first time.
These targets were based on figures normalised for changes in production levels rather than the absolute figures shown in the previous table.
This is so that any impact arising from changes in production is takenintoaccount.
 the published targets is as follows: Target 2008 Actual 2007 Target 2007 Energyconsumption.............................. 5% reduction 8% reduction Nochange Waste......................................... 10% reduction 22% reduction 5% reduction Losttimeaccidents............................... 5% reduction 8% increase 5% reduction Workrelated injuries.............................. 5% reduction 18% reduction 5% reduction A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the 2008Sustainability Report onthe Groups website whenit is published at the endofMay2008.
Social responsibility Employees The Smith & Nephew Code of Business Principles and Code of Ethics governs the Groups interactions with all of its stakeholders including employees.
This sets out the values and behaviours that the Group expects from every employee.
During 2007 this document has been reviewed and improved and is currently being communicated acrossthe wholeorganisation.
The HR Policy Framework introduced in 2006 describes the key HR policies, values and behaviours and management principles that provide the structure within which the business units plan and deliver successful results.
This has now been supplemented by the HR Strategy document which provides the direction on how the Group intends to attract, retain and develop the right talent to meet the business needs and create a culture that isalignedtoSmith& Nephewvalues and deliver the Groups longterm strategic plans.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of non-discrimination and aims to provide an open, environment based on constructive relationships.
Smith & Nephew welcomes people with disabilities and makes every effort to retain any employee who has a disability.
The Group is committed to engaging with employees through the regular and timely dissemination of Group information and encouraging their feedback and ideas.
An employee global opinion survey is used every two years as a catalyst for improvements and plans are already well advanced for the 2008survey.
The 2006 Global Opinion Survey was completed towards the end of 2006 and presentations to employees were completed in early 2007.
The results indicated continued high levels of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group.
90% of employees said that they were proud to work for Smith & Nephew, 84% believed that they would stay with the Group for the foreseeable future and would recommend it as a good employer to friends and family.
The Groups employees also told management that it needs to improve ways of working, speed of decision making and strengthen the link between performance and reward.
In response to employee feedback, projects have been initiated in all parts of the business includingthe development ofspecific training and development in the areas of coaching, employee reward, leadership, product knowledge and .
In 2007 the Group has continued to assess indicators of employee engagement.
These measurements are a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanism for action as well as giving trend indicators of improved performance.
Changes in the business structure in 2007 and the Plus acquisition has impacted upon data collection.
Consequently the Group has not been able to include labour turnover or internal appointments information for mainlandEuropeorAsia and so the informationprovided onpage 19 for2007excludes these areas.
18 Internal Appointments The internal appointments measure is an indicator of how well the Group believes it is developing its employees and the success of the Groups internal recruitment policy.
In 2007 an average of 30.4% 2006 28.2% of vacancies across all parts of the business were filled by internal applicants.
The target for all employees is 40%, which the Group believes is challenging but achievable.
The target for management positions is 70% and this number will be reported separately from 2008.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the need to bring in new ideas and approaches that external recruitmentbrings.
Labour Turnover The Group measures both general voluntary labour turnover and turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
The latter measure is an indication of how well the Group  its employees so that they canmakea contributionto the business.
The average turnover for employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 10.5% 2006 6.2% rangingfrom2.3%to 18.9%across the Groups operations.
The average voluntary labour turnover for 2007 was 10.5% 2006 2.8% ranging from 6.5% to 13.5% across the Groupsoperations.
The Group has investigated these results and believes that the main factors behind these increases are the significant changes in the Group operations that have occurred in 2007.
These include the EIP, the integration of Plus and the transition of many countries from indirect to direct market operations.
This has had the effect of unsettling some individuals and also makes year on year comparisons of the data difficult.
The Group anticipated this increase in turnover and believes that this has been managed successfully which has ensured that the Grouphas notlost significanttalent.
Training and  The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
To ensure that the Group continues to improve in this important area, during 2007, a central global organisational development team was created to lead talent management, performance management and learning and development across the whole of Smith & Nephew.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmes are linked to formal performance appraisal and development planning.
The Group operates training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These continue to provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
Further programmes were added in 2007 and the Group has continuedto invest in  to further enable access totrainingforall employees.
Leadership The Group continues to develop its current and future leaders to improve the performance of the business.
Senior management supports a set of group-wide leadership competencies and management development is a regular item on their meeting agenda.
Performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at leadership programmesare utilised.
The Groups leadership excellence programme is a three-day purpose designed residential course facilitated by a business school coach.
The programme focuses on leadership style and interaction and the programme will continuein2008.
Workplace Smith & Nephew provides healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
Health and safety is managed as an integral part of the business and employee involvement is recognised as a key part of the process.
The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individual, the rightof employees to freedom of association, freedom of expression andthe righttobe heard.
19 Group Description Societyand Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment, and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business.
Smith & Nephew values community involvement and is an active member of its local communitiesand supports employees .
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on criteria relevant to its business, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes givingdonationsof money, gifts inkindand employee time.
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo is a charitable and humanitarian service programme of the orthopaedics business.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy who receive donations of Smith & Nephew products through sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
By working in collaboration with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew considers that this is a way of increasing the impact of charitable giving and the workitundertakes.
The Smith & Nephew Foundationis an independent charitable trust funded by Smith & Nephewadvanced wound management.
The Foundation makes awards to individuals in the nursing professions for postgraduate research to improve clinical practice in nursing and midwifery.
The Foundation is the largest single charitable awarding bodytothe nursingprofessions inthe UK.
Moreexamples of the programmessupported by Smith& Nepheware giveninthe Sustainability Report.
In 2007, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled $1,603,000 of which $500,000 was giventothe Smith& NephewFoundation.
Customers The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective healthcare solutions benefiting healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
It will continue to provide education and training support for healthcare professionals and invest .
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, includingthose concerningpackaging, labelling and user instructions.
The aim istoanticipate future standards and  and safety ofits customersandpatients.
BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners whom it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
Additional work continues each year to improve the monitoring of supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility.
Additional focus on supplier standards has been implemented in the manufacturing area to ensure Smith& Nephews standards are maintainedthroughout.
Economic Contribution The Groups business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends onits abilityto providea satisfactory economicreturn.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professionals with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups products improve patient outcomes, treatments and procedures for both clinician and patient and create costeffective .
The Group has built expertise in the area of measuring healthcare economics within its advanced wound management business and continues to make good progress in developing similar systems across the business.
Increased development of this area was evident in the 2007 Sustainability Report available at www.
A description of the principles of healthcare economics and its integrationintothe business is giveninthe Sustainability Report.
