THE BUSINESSAND THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer, healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
In particular Smith & Nephew offers products throughout the continuum of care for patients, not only with osteoarthritis from early intervention through primary joint replacements to revisions, but also in the wider field of injuries to knee, hip, shoulderand overall boneand skinrepair.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other professional healthcare customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Cost effective solutions are achieved through the use of advanced technology.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits of the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician andpatient and contributeto morecost effective .
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew has a low impact on the environmentand is committed to improvingthe management of its environmental, socialand economicimpact.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since2001.
 andviews sustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The eighth Sustainability Report, which gives detailed information, will be published on the Groups website at the end of May 2008 at www.
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by four leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2007 the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and continues to be a leader in its sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good and in France, Vigeo publishes an assessment report on Smith & Nephew used by some of the leading investment banks in Europe.
In 2007 the Group was namedinthe German Global Challenges Index.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards is under continuous development.
Smith & Nephews policy is to not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Groups policy is to comply with the industry standards set by Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactionsand conformto IFRS.
The Groups Code of Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
This is regularly reviewed and a revised code was published on the Smith & Nephew website in March 2008.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
Since 2005, the Group has operated a Code of BusinessEthicsand a  employees.
Innovation Smith & Nephew uses innovation to create cost-effective products and techniques which deliver benefits for clinicians and patients.
The Groups scientific and technical leadership combined with an understanding of the needs of clinicians, enables Smith & Nephew to produce unique new products with distinct advantages in clinical performanceand cost-effectiveness.
The Groups research and development strategy is based on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Fundamental scientific work and the development of new technologiesare used to create newproductsand  future.
It is the Groups practice to develop platform technologies on which to build product ranges.
This provides an efficientandcost effective means .
