Translated into 13 languages, the Code applies to all Smiths Corporate responsibility businesses and employees worldwide and provides the framework Smiths has six fundamental strengths.
Corporate responsibility for for policies, programmes and procedures for a range of corporate Smiths is enshrined in the sixth strength: doing business the right way.
It is endorsed and fully supported by the Board.
Smiths defines the right way in the Code of Corporate Responsibility Code compliance support to Smiths businesses worldwide is provided and Business Ethics the Code, which is based on 12 principles: through a number of channels including via the legal, human resources 1 compliance with national laws and regulations: and internal audit functions which provide advice, export control policies, education, training, guidance materials and risk assessment tools.
2 fair and vigorous competition in the marketplace: Managing corporate responsibility 3 integrity and ethical conduct as the standard of individual and The Code is set by the Board and monitored by the Code Compliance corporate business behaviour: Council, chaired by the General Counsel, which reports at least twice 4 fair and honest treatment of suppliers and customers: a year to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Responsibility for managing specific issues, however, lies at different levels within the 5 proper and respectful treatment of employees: Group, depending on the nature of the issue and how it can most 6 high standards for health and safety in the workplace: effectively be managed: 7 respect for the environment: health, safety and environment issues are managed through a Group-wide steering committee and organisation: 8 contributions to the communities in which we live and work: employee issues are managed through the human resources 9 straightforward public information and activities: function and by line management: 10 respect for human rights: supplier and customer programmes are managed by each 11 prudent and transparent public accounting and reporting: and business: and 12 a culture of compliance throughout the entire Smiths organisation community programmes are principally managed locally, from the Chief Executive to the newest employee.
although there is also some Group-level activity.
Environment Smiths is committed to ensuring that, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects of its activities, products and services upon the environment are minimised.
In practice, this means using performance-based environmental management systems to drive improvement throughout the business.
Performance against targets Target set July 04 2007 result 2006 result Comment ISO14001 certication 74 out of 75 currently 83 out of 104 All originally targeted sites for all sites except small offices, with new acquisitions achieving eligible sites certied eligible sites have been certified.
Ongoing certification within two years certified programme in place for certification of new sites Energy consumption 145 MWh m sales 176MWh m Target achieved target set at 180MWh m sales 5% reduction over three years sales Waste to landll 3.39 Tonnes m sales 2.93 Tonnes Target achieved target set at 3.5 Tonnes m sales 6% reduction over three years m sales Air emissions 106kg m sales 100kg m sales Target achieved target set at 112kg m sales 6% reduction over three years Water consumption 258m3 m sales 398m3 m sales Target achieved target set at 411m3 m sales 12% reduction over three years Note that the 2004 baseline data includes Smiths Aerospace whereas 2007 does not.
Whilst normalisation against sales makes the figures directly comparable, the changed mix of manufacturing processes can exaggerate to some extent an already positive level of achievement.
Health and safety Smiths is committed to conducting all its activities in a manner which achieves the highest practicable standards of health and safety.
This year, attention has been focused on the underperforming sites and improving cross-divisional sharing of good practice.
Performance against targets Target set July 04 2007 results 2006 result Comment Recordable incident rate 1.96 200,000 2.58 200,000 Ongoing year-on-year no target set man-hours man-hours improvement achieved Lost days rate 25.61 200,000 27.91 200,000 Ongoing year-on-year no target set man-hours man-hours improvement achieved Lost time incident rate 0.92 200,000 1.15 200,000 Target achieved 1 incident 200,000 man-hours man-hours man-hours Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 19 Business review continued New targets Reaching Full Potential We are pleased that the three-year targets set in 2004 have been Smiths invests in employees skills and capabilities to help them achieved and new targets have been developed to drive improvement reach their own Full Potential, which in turn helps the Company and still further.
its businesses to do likewise.
Current priorities for Smiths to achieve full potential across the Group are talent development, succession Environment planning and employee engagement.
The major current public environmental issue worldwide is greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on climate change.
Talent development Smiths most significant emissions source is from the generation Smiths Group and the individual businesses continue to invest in of electrical energy purchased by and consumed in our facilities.
identifying and developing the talents of our people.
Smiths provides We have in recent publications converted our energy consumption employees with challenging work that stretches their capabilities, to carbon dioxide equivalent values and for the next three-year period backing that up with training and development activities tailored to it is appropriate to target our overall greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2006, Smiths introduced a new process for the This will include emissions from energy usage and VOC emissions most senior people, integrating the performance review with the and thus replace these former targets.
overall Full Potential goals of the business.
Formal international greenhouse regulatory systems do not consider Smiths continues to be actively involved in all aspects of training and normalisation.
Instead, they target based on a fixed cap.
It is developing young people, including initiatives designed to ease the appropriate that Smiths follows this trend and establishes a target transition from school to work.
Horizons is a two-year programme for of the same level of emissions or better in FY 2009 to 2010 as FY 2006 new and recently appointed graduates.
It provides an understanding of to 2007 for each individual facility.
the Group and the business world in general, and develops personal and teamworking skills.
Additionally, total waste net of recycled waste and water consumption will continue to be targeted with an overall 9% Succession planning improvement normalised against sales.
Smiths has a systematic succession management process for senior leadership roles.
The Group identifies leadership talent and Health and safety development needs, and follows this up with individual development Building on the successful drive to reduce lost time incidents it has plans that are monitored by senior management.
been decided to target recordable incidents.
This measure includes incidents that do not necessarily lead to lost time and thus is more Employee engagement challenging.
Good practice is acknowledged as a recordable incident Smiths provides information to and communicates with employees as rate of better than 1.5 per 100 employees per year and this target has an important part of doing business.
Employees are regularly provided been set as the goal for the Group.
Many parts of Smiths are already with a wide range of information concerning the performance and performing at this level but we will focus on those that do not whilst prospects of the business in which they are involved by means of striving to maintain progress at all sites.
employee councils, information and consultation forums, and other consultative bodies that allow their views to be taken into account.
The implementation of the ISO14001 Environmental Management System plays a significant part in ensuring that our businesses have Communities robust systems in place for managing environmental performance.
Smiths is committed to contributing to the communities in which we Thus it has been decided to target implementation of the comparable operate.
In addition to providing employment opportunities, we focus OHSAS18001 Health and Safety Management System.
At this stage on community involvement through charitable giving, regeneration the target has been set for external certification at two-thirds of our and education initiatives.
manufacturing sites with 50 or more employees within the next three Smiths supports national and international charitable organisations years.
from a central budget administered by the Charity and Donations Employees Committee.
This years beneficiaries include the Royal Academy of The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities for employment.
Engineering, which helped to set up a new collaborative education Smiths recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their initiative with Smiths in the UK the Smiths Technology Education qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related Programme STEP which aims to provide able young people with decisions, Smiths complies with anti-discrimination requirements in the information and financial support they need to explore a career the relevant jurisdictions concerning matters of race, colour, national in technology.
Individual businesses also support charity projects in origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, religious belief, age, a number of areas.
For example, Smiths Medical supports medical or physical or mental disability.
Disabled people are given full research via the Smiths Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical consideration for employment and subsequent training, career Care at University College London.
development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and In addition to corporate donations, Smiths businesses devote a time abilities.
to local community projects around the world.
For example, Smiths All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity.
Accordingly, Medical recently participated in St Mungos Putting Down Roots any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
Smiths respects the right scheme, a gardening project for Londons homeless.
of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona fide For further information, please see the Corporate Responsibility employee representative organisation.
Smiths believes in good Report 2007 at www.
communications with employees and in promoting consultation, co-operation and teamwork on matters of mutual concern.
Smiths offers all employees in the US and UK share schemes that enable employees to acquire an interest in the Companys shares and to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
