CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SOCOs commitment to high standards Where SOCO participates as an operating continue to communicate its CR activities of corporate responsibility CR is a core interest holder or co-venturer in a project, we using its annual report and corporate business priority.
The Company supports can directly influence operations and decision website to complementary effect.
the principle that whilst a Board has a making.
However, where SOCO holds a primary responsibility to its shareholders, minority interest, as an investor or participant SOCOs approach to CR begins with the it should also take full account of other in a project, our influence is less direct.
In both recruitment of key managers and operations stakeholders interests.
SOCO believes that cases, our expectations for CR are clearly personnel.
It is a priority consideration that integrating CR and sustainable development established, communicated and monitored.
every relevant employee understands the good practice into its management culture The Company has had a health, safety and importance of CR management and has will lower the Companys risk profile and environment HSE policy conforming to best knowledge of what constitutes best practice, promote new opportunities.
practice since the first year of its existence, which can foster informed decision making and has tailored HSE management systems and an instinctive appreciation of the relevant This report focuses on our CR management for its Vietnam operations.
New operations in business implications associated with each and explains how this supports SOCOs West Africa will be undertaken using bespoke operation.
There is no restriction on the use overall business performance.
management systems specific to the types of of external advisors to ensure that corporate environment and operations.
The Company objectives are met.
This approach of utilising SOCOs framework of policy documents also deploys external advisors to ensure that external, rather than dedicated internal and procedures is reflective of the relatively best practice is achieved.
resources can be highly effective in a small scale and nature of the Companys company of SOCOs size because corporate activities and size of organisation.
Currently, The Companys Code of Business objectives are not compromised by the Company directly participates in the Conduct and Ethics the Code was management numbers and layers.
Another operation of two offshore exploration and approved by the Board in 2004.
Drawn up core element of SOCOs business culture, appraisal ventures, in Vietnam and the to meet the rising expectations in the wider which is a source of potential benefit, is the Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
In these community, including among many practice of maximising local employment cases, environmental and social impacts institutional shareholders, regarding social, and contract outsourcing.
Environmental impact environmental and ethical management, assessments are nevertheless carried out the Code documents and encapsulates the Local involvement is our policy in all and independent performance monitoring Companys culture and objectives and operations that we control.
Such an is standard practice.
SOCO now also addresses the three pillars of sustainable approach has significantly benefited participates in onshore operations in the development: economic, environmental operations and has been a major factor in Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and social performance.
It is designed to SOCO winning access to opportunities on and detailed procedures are being be a dynamic policy that will evolve as the the strength of the relationships it has developed for this activity see below.
SOCO will forged for example, in Vietnam.
A highly 24 24 BUSIneSS revIew Local involvement Supporting local communities and charities Committed to training and development Building healthy communities SOCO International plc 24 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Corporate Responsibility continued localised approach does, however, strong commitment to utilising and building 4 Reduction of corresponding operating introduce additional risks.
An ever-present skills among local communities.
This has risks in relation to the assets risk is that contractors may not, in practice, the effect of generating positive economic 4 Clarification of SOCOs responsive risk share an operating companys benefits, both locally and nationally.
Virtually management strategy commitment to high CR standards.
This all of the people who work for our joint 4 Positioning for reporting on social risks can be critical where contractors have a ventures in the Republic of Congo and responsive management practices.
large degree of control over day-to-day Brazzaville and the Democratic Republic activities, and act as the main interface of Congo Kinshasa, whether employees As such, during 2007 we have had an with members of government and local or contractors, are nationals.
Their independent specialist review our current communities.
This applies particularly association with SOCO will give them approach and recommend improvements.
to locally based contractors and access to training of a high international Lessons from this assessment will be subcontractors whose histories and standard.
This approach to local applied, with appropriate modifications, to cultures may have demanded different communities works both ways: as well as all SOCOs operations in West Africa, as social and environmental standards.
reducing SOCOs costs and risk exposure, well as elsewhere.
The conclusions of this it will attract ongoing support from the work will be introduced across the SOCO manages this area of risk carefully, local authorities.
Company in 2008. both in its selection of contractors and the subsequent monitoring of their performance.
Republic of Congo Brazzaville reCent aCtIvItY anD OUtlOOk This will become more of an issue for any The Company, together with the support Africa region development activities, where social and and co-operation of the Ministry of SOCO now has participation in offshore environmental impact would normally be Hydrocarbons in the Republic of Congo Republic of Congo Brazzaville, onshore much greater than that arising from SOCOs Brazzaville, has built on the projects Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa current exploration focus.
commenced in late 2006 aimed directly at and onshore Cabinda.
SOCO is operator providing support for the benefit of the local for the first two operations so has With SOCOs recent entry into West Africa, it communities where we operate.
These principal responsibility for management has been important to review and clarify the include the supply of drugs to clinics and of CR issues.
Companys approach to the implementation impregnated mosquito nets to communities of community relations and related risk in the Impfondo and Dolisie districts, as well SOCOs new operations in West Africa are management practices to assure the as the supply of drugs to pensioners managed by deploying the same approach following key objectives: homes in Brazzaville, the completion of a to local involvement that the Company has 4 Preservation and enhancement of water well for the community of Madingotaken elsewhere in the past, principally SOCOs reputation and that of its Kayes and the completion of the Ngoyo Mongolia, where our operations were existing and future joint venture partners Maternity Clinic.
The Company has also always underpinned by the Companys 26 26 BUSIneSS revIew provided support to the social, Vietnam principal impact will be an extension of the humanitarian and conservation work of The Company continues to demonstrate its useful life of these assets, thus having a Fondation Congo Assistance, Africa commitment in Vietnam through the two beneficial sustainability influence.
The most Foundation and Halte Sida.
In 2007, we material environmental issue will be the continued to support the construction of a production of significant quantities of SOCO, through its subsidiary SOCO rehabilitation centre for Agent Orange victims associated gas.
This represents an Exploration and Production Congo, is likely to in Vinh Phuc Province.
This project, important economic asset for the commence exploration drilling activity in 2008 supported since 2005, was inaugurated on Company and the Vietnamese people.
and the additional work needed to support 18 October 2007 and provides for over 600 Current plans are based on the successful the approval of drilling operations will be affected individuals.
Also, we participated in sale of this gas for national use, passing completed.
This will include all the required the financing of the construction of a through existing facilities.
In the event that social and environmental assessments.
Rehabilitation Centre for children of Nghe An satisfactory arrangements cannot be Province.
The centre will be administered by achieved in the development timescale, the Democratic Republic of Congo the National Fund for Vietnamese Children.
gas will be temporarily re-injected until Kinshasa commercial contracts can be agreed.
SOCO is currently preparing to undertake a Other financial assistance was provided to seismic programme in its Democratic upgrade and provide educational facilities to Yemen Republic of Congo Kinshasa licence area an existing deteriorating secondary school in In Yemen, the East Shabwa partners during 2008.
Part of the planning for this Ha Nam Province, and to assist the continue to explore options for reducing survey has involved environmental and construction of 50 charity houses for very and or eliminating the flaring of the social impact assessments.
An important low income families.
Additionally, funds have associated gas production.
Gas re-injection, first step was to commence the been made available for emergency relief with a capacity of 10 million standard cubic identification of local social issues which assistance during 2007. feet per day MMSCFD, is now operational.
required interaction with local communities At the same time, SOCO has encouraged to learn about their social priorities and to Successful exploration and appraisal and supported the Operator in a thorough inform them about the nature of offshore Vietnam has resulted in the review of all the options for gas disposal.
Being commitment at the beginning of 2007 to These include using gas fired power onshore, active ongoing community liaison the development of the Ca Ngu Vang field.
generation to replace diesel powered is important as is the deployment of local With this approval, full environmental and engines that produce more harmful personnel to support operations.
Already, social impact assessments were emissions than gas.
This will have the added we have contributed to the rehabilitation undertaken, although impacts are benefit of reducing road tanker traffic that is of a major road and built a bridge for the expected to be minor.
Oil production will currently used to bring diesel to site.
pass to existing onshore facilities, so the studies for NGL extraction from the gas are SOCO International plc 26 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Corporate Responsibility continued also ongoing.
These two projects could 4 It should be more straightforward for Companys non-operated emissions for account for up to an additional 15 MMSCFD SOCO to agree, with governments 2007 was approximately 0.11 million tonnes of the produced gas.
and other critical stakeholders, a set of carbon dioxide equivalent, all of which of standards with wide international comes from its participation in Yemen.
Beyond this, the Operator representing the recognition rather than standards with a East Shabwa partners, is working closely proprietary component.
SOCO is committed to transparency in its with the Yemen government authorities activities and would expect to set up project to look at regional power generation and We intend to ensure that operations in all dedicated communication channels for any industrial gas usage.
These projects, of our projects meet high standards of major operated activities.
These would be together with those mentioned above, environmental and social management.
designed to manage communication with are targeting reducing gas flaring to This will demonstrate a commitment to stakeholders, particularly local communities, a minimum.
sustainable development through the and to highlight employment and contractor allocation of benefits to local communities opportunities arising from direct operations pOlICY anD FUtUre ManaGeMent in its area of operations in the form of the as well as any indirect socio-economic OF Cr creation of jobs, the creation and expansion activities.
SOCO is committed to applying widely of local infrastructure, support for local accepted good practice in CR primary education and support for training While World Bank guidelines will be the management.
The detailed guidance set and capacity building for local personnel.
operating benchmark, SOCO would expect out by the World Bank Group and to provide information to the wider public, incorporated into the Equator Principles The Company recognises the environmental either in public reports or on the Company agreed by many international lending banks impact of emissions from both its operated website, in line with the guidance provided is the basic approach SOCO has adopted.
Currently, by the Global Reporting Initiative and other As well as representing good international SOCO has nil operated emissions in terms of widely respected guidelines.
The Chief practice, this approach has two key carbon dioxide equivalent.
However, as part Executive is responsible to the Board for advantages: of its growth in operations, the Company is HSE and other CR performance.
He 4 SOCO is involved in developing establishing a reporting mechanism through delegates day-to-day responsibility for countries and, in conjunction with joint which the environmental impact of managing such issues to the Vice President venture partners, would expect to raise operations is measured and a means of - Operations and Production, who is invited loan finance from international aid donor reducing emissions of, in particular, to all Board Meetings.
These issues are agencies and Equator Principles banks greenhouse gases.
The equity share of the reported to all Board Members in a monthly 28 28 BUSIneSS revIew operations report and there is a Board agenda item which addresses all significant HSE and CR issues.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing all areas of the Groups corporate risk management processes, including HSE CR.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on a continuous basis and a formal assessment is conducted at least annually.
The Senior Independent Director, who has experience in the relevant area, reviews HSE CR performance in detail with senior managers and is kept routinely informed of any material performance issues as they arise.
SOCO International plc 28 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
