Corporate Social Responsibility Our objective is to deliver continual improvements in the way we work but in a way that is sustainable and aligns, as far as is possible, our core business objectives with our 87,326 donated wider responsibilities.
To reflect the increased importance of our corporate social The Board reviews the results of inspection scores at every meeting responsibility CSR policies to both Southern Cross and to our and is committed to delivering the highest standards of care.
We stakeholders it was decided during the year that the Group Operations acknowledge that from time to time individual homes can Director, John Murphy, would take the lead role in all CSR related experience problems.
Where a home has not scored well either matters, while overall responsibility remains with the full Board of through internal audit or regulatory inspection or a complaint has Directors.
The Company has established a CSR working group under his been received, investigation and review are initiated immediately Chairmanship with the remit of developing the Companys CSR policy through the operational teams, and action plans with appropriate and driving the process.
Membership of the committee has been delivery timescales are implemented.
drawn from all business units to ensure the whole Company contributes to the development of the Companys CSR policy.
Inspection scores are based on the regulators overall view of the outcomes the service provides to the people who use it.
At the Southern Cross is fully committed to the continued development of year end, the profile of inspection scores across the portfolio was our business in a way that takes account of our responsibility to our as follows: many stakeholders including our service users, the wider community, the environment, our employees, our suppliers and those who own Inspection Scores the business.
Our objective is to deliver continual improvements in 51 Excellent the way we work but in a way that is sustainable and aligns, as far as is possible, our core business objectives with our wider responsibilities.
410 Good 207 Adequate Care Standards and Service Quality Our aim is to provide the best possible levels of care and service 44 Poor delivery to our service users.
Our policies and procedures are constantly reviewed and updated, in line with best practice and current legislation and are available to all homes via the Group intranet.
The Board has put in place a strategy targeted at reducing the number of homes in the Red category over the next 12 months.
In order to ensure that standards are maintained we continually audit and review the care service at each of our homes.
This is supplemented Community by external inspection through the relevant regulatory bodies within Our care centres are an integral part of the communities in which we England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to monitor compliance work, delivering an essential social service that must enable the against the Care Standards Act and associated Care Home Regulations.
continued interaction of our service users both with their families and The inspection reports from these reviews are public documents the wider community.
Most activities are organised at a local level by and therefore we are continually judged on these outcomes.
individual care centres, as we believe they are in the best position to understand local needs.
As well as making donations to a number of The Company operates a whistleblowing policy which is published local causes the Company supports local fund raising, often on a on our intranet and is also placed on all home notice boards.
We try to involve as many sections Currently the Company is working with the charity Action on Elder of the community as possible in fund raising efforts, be that Abuse to pilot a Whistleblowing hotline which employees can use traditional events such as coffee mornings or more unique events.
if they have any concerns surrounding the care of our service users.
These events are generally organised for the benefit of our service From April 2008, inspection scores will be used to introduce a star users social funds but of course they also serve the community rating system for care homes.
This should ultimately lead to price through its engagement with our service users.
The Company has differentiation, with operators achieving higher fees for quality continued its support of local primary school football and considers service and environment.
this link between young and old to be particularly valuable.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Southern Cross Healthcare is a keen supporter of national charities.
During the year we organised a number of events in support of the Groups principle charity, Action on Elder Abuse, including the kidnap of Group Operations Director John Murphy, raising 9,400.
Support for national charities also continues.
The principal charity We recruit using many different mediums including staff that we support is Action on Elder Abuse.
This year a number of introductions and overseas recruitment.
Southern Cross has formed fundraising events were run throughout the Company in support a partnership with the Royal College of Nursing in a special project of the charity including the kidnap for ransom of the Group aimed at internationally recruited nurses.
The objective of the Operations Director!
This event raised 9,400 from staff, suppliers project is to enhance the opportunities and potential for and partner organisations.
In addition, our care centres raised funds development for such staff.
All newly recruited staff undertake from a variety of fundraising activities which totalled 34,263. an induction programme designed to familiarise them with their These funds were matched by the Company resulting in a total workplace, their new colleagues and our working practices.
Equally important is the retention of staff.
We strive to ensure that In many other ways we encourage community involvement.
Groups all staff are appropriately remunerated.
Salaries and rates of pay are regularly visit our care centres from the community to provide reviewed annually.
All staff have access to the Company benefits entertainment or just to spend time with our service users so they scheme which provides a range of special offers and discounts on, do not become isolated from the wider world.
Regular trips out to for example, holidays, health club membership, car purchase and the community are also organised by care centre staff using the hire schemes, cinema visits and insurance services.
The provision of the correct facilities and adequate care equipment Workplace levels is crucial in the achievement of our aims: however, equally Southern Cross appreciates that its performance is affected by the important is a comprehensive system of staff training.
The Company way it manages its employees.
It can be seen from elsewhere in has set it itself the objective of having all care centre managers this report that our staff are our most significant resource we are enrolled in the Registered Managers award scheme.
Care centre a people oriented business: we rely on our staff to deliver our vision staff are also enrolled in a training programme and work towards of care to our service users.
Ultimately our ability to enhance and the NVQ level 2 qualification.
Currently 52% of managers and 55% sustain shareholder value relies on our effectiveness in recruiting, of other care staff have achieved their qualification.
In addition managing and developing our staff.
to this, specific health and safety and fire training is conducted on a regular basis.
At the end of September 2007 the Company had 41,344, full and part-time, employees.
83.8% 2006 82.5% of our workforce Other training is routinely delivered within the homes by home were female, while 8.2% 2006 10% of our workforce were managers and our dedicated training department.
The average age of employees was 39 years.
comprehensive induction training and statutory moving and handling training.
During the year the Group invested 4.8m in staff training.
We operate an equal opportunities policy to ensure there is no discrimination against applicants on the grounds of age, gender, In a further effort to ensure our staff are kept up to date the Group disability, religion, sexual orientation, and race, or for any other regularly communicates with them in a variety of ways.
We live in an increasingly diverse world and therefore it is direct communication, the Group regularly publishes updates to its imperative that our recruitment policy reflects this.
Understanding polices on its intranet.
A quarterly newsletter is produced and and valuing diversity allows us to meet the needs of our service circulated to all homes as is the weekly briefing which includes users more effectively and therefore equal opportunities for all are as well as news articles urgent health and safety and policy embedded in our principles and practices.
The successful recruitment of the correct calibre of staff in terms In June 2007, Southern Cross joined other leading UK companies to of qualifications, aptitude and attitude is essential to our success.
This is a public commitment by the Company 18 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Recruiting and retaining high-calibre people is crucial to our success.
The quality of our staff was recognised when ten reached the final of the Scottish Care Awards, four reached the final of the Welsh Care Forum Awards, and three reached the final of the Care Awards.
to support all of our employees in developing their basic skills, unions.
A weekly staff newsletter is produced to keep staff including literacy and numeracy and work towards relevant and informed of current events.
Employee suggestions are welcomed valuable qualifications.
With the Skills Pledge and support from the and are often used to inform future policy.
Train to Gain programme we have now accelerated our vocational training programme for ancillary and support staff.
Harassment, bullying or any form of intimidation of our employees, clients, customers or suppliers is not acceptable or tolerated at In addition we run an active Talent Management programme Southern Cross.
We are committed to providing a safe, secure and whereby we identify individuals within the Company who have attractive environment for both our service users and our staff.
Our the potential to make a significant contribution to its future success.
employee assistance line is available to all of our staff and their These individuals receive ongoing coaching and development to families to offer them advice on stress related issues 24 hours a day.
ensure they reach their full potential and are central to our succession planning.
Environment The Company has, where possible, continued working in this crucial Staff performance is also monitored and appraised in such a way that area both to reduce the impact of our business on the environment staff regularly receive constructive feedback through supervision.
and to achieve savings in operating costs.
The calibre of our staff is recognised throughout the sector.
Ten Acting on reports previously prepared by The Carbon Trust, we members of staff reached the finals of the Scottish Care Awards, have continued to look at ways in which we can reduce our carbon four the Welsh Care Forum Awards and three the Care Awards.
The Group has estimated that, based on the number and retaining such people is crucial to the success of the Company.
of homes currently in the Group, its annual environmental impact is 118,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
The roll-out of smart metering Health and Safety that was previously reported has been completed.
In addition the A key area of concern to the Company is the safety of its employees Company tested the effectiveness of retro-fitting control systems to and of its service users.
Our ultimate aim is to achieve an injury free our gas boilers at ten locations.
Energy savings of up to 25% can be working environment.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility achieved using this equipment.
Following the successful evaluation for the health, safety and welfare of both the staff and service users.
of the control equipment by the Company we are planning to install The Company has a comprehensive written health and safety policy.
the equipment at the 50 homes with the highest utilisation of gas.
Operationally the responsibility for implementing the policy falls to This process began in September 2007.
It is planned to complete the Group Operations Director, John Murphy.
this stage of the project by the end of December 2007.
Thereafter an ongoing programme will be implemented, again tackling the Performance is measured and the Senior Executive Team SET, highest gas-consuming homes first.
comprising the Group Operations Director, Managing Directors and other departmental heads monitor the performance by way of a As explained elsewhere in this report the Group continues to system of regular audits.
The Group operates a Health and Safety expand through the development of new sites.
Care is taken at the committee which meets quarterly and which reports to the SET.
design and planning stage to build in as many energy efficiency measures as possible.
Where possible, construction elements, such We seek to promote a positive attitude to health and safety and, as timber frames, are manufactured off-site, thereby reducing where accidents do occur, to learn from them in order to help energy usage and waste.
We also try to procure elements which prevent recurrence.
utilise renewable sources or which minimise energy usage both in manufacture and during their operational life.
The current generation Southern Cross encourages participation in its affairs in a variety of of homes is developed, for example, using factory manufactured en ways, including regular team meetings and membership of trade suite bathroom pods.
We are also installing a water purification Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Catering for individual tastes.
Since good nutrition is crucial to good health, we take care to provide meals which are not only well prepared, but are also designed to appeal to different tastes.
20 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Our residents needs drive the services we provide.
During the year, we improved the nutritional balance of our menus when we installed Nutmeg, a PC-based nutritional system in all our homes.
system which allows hot water to be heated and circulated at 10 Nutmeg.
This system, used to develop nutritionally balanced degrees lower than normal along with an ozone dosing system menus, has been installed in all homes.
We actively look for service in the laundry which allows clinically clean washing at temperatures users feedback and conduct regular surveys to ensure we around 20 degrees as opposed to 60 degrees or more.
Other incorporate their views when defining our service.
building techniques that are being used presently include: heat recovery on ventilation systems, increased insulation in the The Group maintains a website aimed at prospective services users superstructure and rainwater harvesting systems.
As a further step and their families, potential employees, investors and other in producing more energy efficient homes, the next generation of stakeholders.
This site is regularly updated with information about homes may include air source heat pumps and solar preheat new homes and other developments within the Group.
An important part of our drive to achieve excellence is the selection The effective disposal of waste presents a real challenge to all of our business partners.
It is essential that our suppliers adhere to businesses.
New regulations now require greater attention to the our business ethos in terms of the delivery of care.
We seek to sorting of waste prior to disposal.
It is estimated that the Company work with our suppliers to ensure that not only do they deliver produces 13,313 tonnes of landfill waste per year.
In addition a competitive products and services but also that they can be relied significant amount of clinical waste is also produced estimated at upon to deliver first class products and quality service.
In return we 12,651 tonnes per year.
Currently we are endeavouring to increase commit to adhere to their terms of business.
Our supplier payment the proportion of waste that can be recycled while enabling more cycle is 50 days 2006 45 days.
At all times we try to develop waste to be incinerated.
It is clear that with increasing landfill duty long-term relationships with suppliers.
and other disposal costs there are clear financial as well as environmental incentives to reduce waste.
All practical and easily Professional Ethics implemented measures are adopted, such as using recyclable Our philosophy of care is to provide the highest standard of person products for our copiers and printers and recycling waste cooking specific care to both older people and younger people with special oil from our kitchens.
The variety of initiatives we have put in place needs.
To give them the opportunity to enhance their lives by reflects the scope of our business: however the Company does providing a safe and comfortable environment, as well as support intend to focus on this area in the coming year in order that we and stimulation to help them maximise their potential with regard can make progress in our waste handling.
to their physical, intellectual, emotional and social capacity.
Our core values of privacy, dignity, independence, choice, rights and fulfilment Marketplace are central to this philosophy.
This philosophy is supported by the At Southern Cross we wish to differentiate ourselves by the quality Southern Cross Practice, Ethics, Education and Research Review Group.
of service provided to our service users and their families.
The ability to compete in this increasingly regulated marketplace is dependent The objective of the Group is to ensure that all research and procedures on many factors but first amongst these is the quality of care we operate under and maintain the highest standards of ethics.
protection of our service users human rights remains paramount.
As part of our dedication to delivering the very highest standards of Employees Corporate Responsibility care, we are committed to all our care centres being accredited to The commitment of our staff to the delivery of our care objectives is ISO 9001 standards.
We now have 175 care centres certified as ISO second to none.
We seek to encourage such commitment and to 9001 compliant.
It is anticipated that by 31 December this year a recognise it through our Care Awards scheme.
The awards are structured further 22 care centres will have been accredited.
to recognise and reward achievement across a number of categories at both regional and national level.
The awards are presented at an Our service users needs are central to the services we provide.
It is open to service users, service users families During the year the Group purchased a PC based nutritional system, or their own colleagues to nominate employees for an award.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
