Corporate social responsibility Spectris operates from 150 offices around the world.
The management and corporate governance processes, and is companys products are used to monitor and control processes regularly reviewed by the groups internal audit function and for enhancing productivity for customers in a wide range of the companys external auditors.
Spectris is committed to creating business growth through adding value for its customers whilst ensuring that its Environment impact on the environment is minimised.
Many Spectris products and technologies have positive Spectris continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good UK environmental benefits by providing customers with the ability index, which measures and benchmarks the performance of to reduce energy consumption or wastage or to control companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility emissions.
Our curing lamps, for example, use ultraviolet light standards, with particular emphasis on the environment and to cure or dry  inks and coatings, human rights.
replacing conventional heat treatment of traditional materials The policies and information described below apply to all which is energy-intensive and emits toxic solvent vapours.
Our instrumentation helps wind farm operators to keep their turbines running by using remote predictive monitoring to Policy setting and monitoring detect and prevent faults.
Our products can also help customers Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on to meet environmental legislation.
For example, we supply environmental, social, ethical, and health and safety matters, instrumentation which can measure low levels of materials and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board.
such as lead and cadmium to meet the European directive on The individual operating units are then responsible for ensuring the restriction of hazardous substances.
Further examples of that these policies are communicated and applied within their the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial particular business, taking account of local legislation and contribution to the environment are shown on our website.
All policies and procedures are reviewed periodically Our environmental policy is published on our website at and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
Spectris policies and procedures are communicated to all Spectris aims to reduce the environmental impact of its business units via the Spectris Group Manual.
Conformity is operations by developing products which are energy-efficient monitored by a process of self-assessment, with the Managing and avoid the use of harmful substances.
The design processes Directors and Finance Directors of each operating company take into account the operational lifetime of every product and required to certify, on an annual basis, compliance with these end-of-life removal or disposal.
Consideration is given to the policies and procedures and report on any non-compliance recyclability of materials, energy consumption, environmentevents.
This forms an integral part of the companys risk friendly production, packaging and shipping.
Products have Making a difference Our employees are key to our success.
We employ high calibre people and provide them with a creative environment with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
24 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 been developed which meet the new European regulations such as water and waste and the low power consumption of on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS and our operations means that Spectris is not required to participate Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
For in the European Emissions Trading Scheme.
Nevertheless, all example, printed circuit boards used in instrumentation sold businesses are conscious of the need to conserve energy and to customers in this region no longer use lead-based solder in resources and local initiatives are in place at many sites to reduce their manufacture.
This legislation has not had a material impact energy usage and minimise wastage.
These include recycling on the companys operations and in fact has brought benefits of waste paper, cardboard, plastic cups, aluminium cans, to businesses such as PANalytical which has developed X-ray batteries, toner cartridges and mobile phones, reducing energy instrumentation specifically for customers to analyse their consumption through the use of timers and sensors to control products to ensure that no traces of the prohibited substances hot water, air conditioning and lighting, reducing water are present.
consumption and re-use of packaging and filling materials.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility Climate change Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets The nature of our activities means that Spectris operations have for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
very little impact on the environment, as our products do not Spectris businesses also work with their suppliers to help require capital-intensive manufacturing processes.
Nevertheless, them to reduce their impact on the environment and to ensure we are committed to adopting environmentally responsible that their products meet the relevant legislation.
Supplier audits policies wherever our companies operate.
Due to the nature of and surveys are regularly undertaken by operating company the group, both in terms of geographical locations 5,500 staff in managements and the strategic purchasing teams.
150 offices in more than 28 countries around the world and the characteristics of our business the majority of manufacturing is Environmental management systems outsourced to third parties, with Spectris providing design, Malvern Instruments achieved certification to ISO14001 during assembly and test operations, and the way that we are organised 2007, bringing the total of Spectris operations covered by this autonomous companies, with only limited resources at the environmental standard to approximately 50% by turnover.
corporate centre, Spectris does not require its companies to Other companies are working towards accreditation where this measure greenhouse gas emissions or the use of other resources is deemed beneficial for their customers.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 25 Corporate social responsibility continued During 2007 no significant environmental incidents to suit local needs.
The companys employment policy is were recorded.
Overall HR policies are set at the centre and implemented Health and safety by each operating business, taking account of local conditions.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for environment, Spectris retains a diverse workforce, valuing the different health and safety matters.
Senior executives in each of the perspectives of its employees, and the company is committed business units are responsible for implementing the companys to equal opportunities for all employees in terms of recruitment health and safety policy at local level and ensuring compliance and employment, training and development, and promotion.
with local legislation and regulations.
The companys health and We strive to create a culture of honesty, respect and professional safety policy can be viewed on our website at excellence whilst maintaining a healthy balance between www.
working and personal lives, with initiatives such as part-time Spectris is committed to providing a working environment and job share opportunities providing family-friendly working at all of its sites which, so far as is possible, is safe and without conditions.
Employee surveys are carried out in a number of risk to health.
Each operating company is responsible for companies to measure the views of employees on company ensuring that the highest standards of health and safety are issues and action plans agreed to address the issues raised.
achieved by its employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers.
Staff turnover is dependent to a large extent upon local Any serious health and safety incidents are reported by the market conditions, but is generally low, particularly at senior Managing Director of the business in an accident report to the management level and amongst technical R&D staff, where Company Secretary, who reports on this issue to the Board.
All in-depth technical knowledge brings loyalty and commitment accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective to the company.
Whilst data on employee turnover is not and preventative actions put in place.
No serious injuries or collated centrally, it is monitored by individual businesses.
deaths have been reported in the last ten years.
Although minor Graduate recruitment programmes and student work incidents are monitored locally, statistics for these are not placements exist in several companies, providing opportunities compiled for the group as a whole.
Audits of health and safety for young people, particularly scientists, to be introduced to the policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations business environment.
by external assessors acting on behalf of the groups insurers on It is the responsibility of the managing directors in each an annual basis and recommendations are made for improving operating company to ensure that all employees are fully aware practices where appropriate.
The group monitors compliance through various processes, including confirmation in writing Employees by each business unit annually, and consolidated Equal Spectris employees are key to the success of the company.
We Employment Opportunities Commission returns which are employ a large number of highly-qualified people who work in produced in the US.
a creative environment with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
Compensation and benefits, which are in line Training and development with other leading companies in the sector, are designed to Spectris commitment to training and personal development reward the achievement of objectives.
Annual reviews provide emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the feedback on employees performance, set objectives and identify group and ensuring that all employees are encouraged to realise training and development opportunities to enable them to meet their full potential.
Annual appraisals and performance reviews their full potential.
are carried out to determine training and development needs Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with for individual employees.
Malvern and Servomex, our two a growing presence in Asia.
Although different social and principal UK businesses, have received the Investors in People employment conditions exist in different locations, Spectris award for their programmes of training, appraisal, employee places high priority on compliance with the legislative and development and skills recognition.
ethical requirements of the countries in which we operate, Financial participation in the group is encouraged through particularly with respect to employment practices, labour rights the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available to all UK and equal opportunities.
The Company Secretary has overall employees, and through grants under the groups Performance responsibility for human rights, employment and ethics policies, Share Plan made to senior management across the group.
but responsibility for implementation is delegated to individual business units, with operational policies and procedures tailored 26 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Values components.
This comprises a modern facility located in a Spectris has established a core set of behavioural values which business park along with other western companies.
The factory all of our employees abide by: employs skilled workers, adopts employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pays wages that are Honesty higher than average for the area.
Acting with absolute integrity in all that we do.
Ethics Empowerment All employees are expected to behave with honesty and integrity Creating an environment of autonomy in our operating and demonstrate appropriate business behaviour.
The ethical companies where people are expected to take the initiative and standards we expect each employee to meet are set out in our to succeed.
Ethics policy which is communicated to all employees.
This policy prohibits bribery and similar facilitation payments.
Ownership Donations to political parties or similar organisations are also Taking personal ownership of the responsibility of our roles.
Any allegations of misconduct are thoroughly investigated.
All operating companies are required to comply Delivery with export control regulations governing shipment of products Performing to the highest standards against the commitments and the appropriate compliance procedures are in place.
we make both internally and, especially, externally to our Spectris operates a confidential whistleblowing policy customers.
via which employees may report to the businesss management team or any Board member, via a confidential email address, Speed any concerns they may have over unethical business practices Ensuring that our business decisions are made and actions or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company executed with a sense of urgency.
Any such disclosures are appropriately investigated.
In addition, Spectris is committed to protecting the career and These values define who we are and how we do business, both reputation of employees who report wrongdoing in accordance as individuals and as a company.
with established procedures, so long as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests Employee communications of the group.
The company has a policy of encouraging its operating companies to provide information to their employees on a Suppliers regular basis.
This information includes matters relating to Spectris has no significant suppliers who are dependent their companys performance, its prospects in the markets it upon the companys business.
Suppliers are paid in line with serves and the future outlook for its business.
In addition to contractual and legal obligations.
Outsourcing of products, regular staff briefings, most companies have intranets where particularly in Asia, is to quality-approved organisations only news bulletins are posted.
which are regularly inspected by the strategic sourcing teams and local managements.
Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts Community involvement of the world and is committed to adopting internationally In line with the way the group operates, community recognised human rights standards wherever it operates.
activity is organised by individual companies at a local level.
The companys human rights policy, which can be viewed at Spectris operating companies worldwide support local www.
php, is consistent with charities and participate in a range of local community the Principles of Human Rights, as set out in the International activities and educational initiatives.
Examples of Labour Organizations Core Conventions, and includes policies community activities are described on our website at on non-discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
Donations The General Manager of Asia is responsible for ensuring that to charities and community causes in 2007 totalled 28,000 the highest ethical standards are maintained in all of our Asiaof which 10,400 were in the UK 2006: 22,000 of which based operations.
Spectris has a number of sales offices in China 9,500 in UK.
and also owns a factory which supplies high quality weighing Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 27
