Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has an impact on our reputation.
We therefore take our corporate social responsibilities CSR seriously and are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR that are relevant to our business.
These include good ethical behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, care for the environment and community involvement.
We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties who may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees.
We have an established investor relations programme, conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance and actively encourage feedback from our employees using a variety of methods including employee surveys.
We maintain our website as one of the main routes for providing information to interested parties and for contacting us.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders.
As a Group driven largely by technological innovation, our main assets are the talents and skills of the people we employ.
The Board does not believe that the activities of the Group present any significant environmental risks.
Ethics Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available on our website at www.
Our Ethics Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations worldwide.
The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal principles: our policy is to operate within applicable laws: discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: conflicts of interest must be avoided: we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups internal control process.
Employees The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of employees and encourages their contribution and development.
An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to the Companys success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Employees are provided with numerous learning and development opportunities to fulfil their potential.
A wide variety of both courses and training materials are available to employees both in the classroom and via the Companys intranet.
These development opportunities are structured to align with our organisational objectives and to help employees in furthering their career aspirations.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 21 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several reward and recognition programmes.
The Spirit of Spirent Programme tracks outstanding service using Spirents core values: customer focus, innovation, collaboration, contribution, continuous learning and ethics.
This Programme is implemented across the Communications group to encourage and reward significant contributions to Spirent by employees.
Furthermore, the Annual Innovation Awards Programme recognises all facets of contributions to Spirent, including outstanding sales, technical innovations and general business innovations.
Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
The leadership team is responsible for providing forums for employees to understand the business objectives and to ask questions.
A variety of tools are utilised to foster two-way communications, including management meetings, all-hands employee meetings, and the Companys intranet.
Leadership and management development programmes are regularly reviewed and updated as the competition for talented employees increases and the leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the organisation.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled persons and this is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
Health and safety The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board to have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer reports any major health and safety issues to the Audit Committee and the Board as necessary.
The health and safety risk profile of the Group again improved in 2007 as further Group manufacturing moved to an outsourcing model.
The main risks of the Group continue to be based around working environment issues such as ergonomics and RSI.
The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the management of health and safety on local management, who are supported by local external advisers, where necessary.
It is the Groups intention that each business unit should have a senior individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well as the Group Policy.
All business units are responsible for providing employees with a written health and safety policy.
An annual questionnaire on health and safety performance is completed by all our business units and any issues are addressed and resolved.
The Group continues to have very low accident rates and no accidents occurred during the year.
Independent external reviews of the Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually at selected business units.
Regular designated health and safety awareness training programmes are also carried out.
Environmental Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have on the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
The main aim of Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with all applicable environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our Environmental Policy is available on our website at www.
Business units are required to comply with the Group Policy and local statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each business unit which highlights their environmental performance.
22 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 23 The vast majority of our products are now manufactured by outside contract manufacturers and we check the environmental policies of these suppliers through audits and surveys.
Wherever possible our products are designed and manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end of its lifecycle.
Our businesses comply with both The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations the WEEE Regulations and The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the RoHS Regulations.
Where possible, business units monitor energy consumption and all business units continue to take positive steps to reduce energy consumption, such as better space utilisation and more efficient running of equipment and machinery.
Environmental waste management in the Group continues to improve with most business units operating waste minimisation schemes mainly focusing on increased recycling.
The vacant site where historical activity had led to minor land contamination is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the local statutory body.
Community Spirent strives to be a responsible partner in the communities in which we operate, and we recognise the significance of local communities through our Charitable Donations Policy.
Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular needs of their population by contributing to local charities and participating in community initiatives.
Support takes the form of employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
In 2007, Spirent made charitable cash donations of 40,000 2006 32,000.
Our employees help their communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and donating materials and equipment to local causes.
In 2007, we continued to support education by offering internships and work experience programmes.
We again participated in a programme that introduces local high school students to jobs related to engineering, including participation in exercises in job shadowing and career days.
Through Junior Achievement, an organisation which educates young people about business, economics and free enterprise, we help raise funds for childrens education.
We also were involved in fund raising activities for local concerns and community initiatives, such as food drives, collections and sponsored events that help organisations provide food, clothing and childrens toys to people around the world.
Spirent continues to support all of our employees and businesses in finding new ways of becoming involved to help their communities.
22 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 23
