24 25 Corporate responsibility Resourcing Corporate responsibility The quality of our people is key to the continuing success of our business and we aim to recruit people of the highest calibre.
We are committed to recognising and encouraging At SSL we aim to operate in a way which reflects diversity across the organisation and espouse the principle our values while understanding and responding to of equality of opportunity for all employees regardless of stakeholder views and connecting business decisions gender, race or age.
We aim to give people with a disability or to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
who become disabled whilst in our employment the same opportunities for career progression and training as other Our approach to corporate responsibility helps us to employees.
achieve our business objectives by: Reward improving our ability to attract, retain and motivate SSLs performance-driven reward strategy continues to high quality people: have a real impact on the business success.
In 2007 08 fulfiling our obligation as the worlds largest and best known we will build on this approach further aligning personal condom brand to encourage good sexual health practices objectives to overall business key performance indicators.
across the globe: Last year we introduced Total Rewards Statements TRS contributing to economic development: and to our UK based employees to give them greater visibility improving the quality of life of our employees, the local and understanding of their individual reward package.
This communities where we operate and society at large.
year, TRS has also been launched in France, North America and Canada: and has been expanded further in the UK to Two years ago we established our approach to corporate provide employees a flexible benefits plan, My Choices, responsibility through the Corporate Responsibility giving freedom, choice and flexibility in the way in which Framework and are now in the process of developing this employees receive their benefits.
We anticipate that we further and will be able to expand upon our developments will extend these initiatives further throughout the Group.
Communication Our people Open and honest communication is key to a successful We are creating a performance-driven culture that business and is a core value for SSL.
supports motivated, successful people who are passionate about our future.
We believe that to achieve our business During the year, Garry Watts, Chief Executive, visited objectives we should encourage our employees to embrace most of our global operations to present to our employees our operating principles Attitude Behaviour Culture explaining business strategy and objectives.
These sessions and reflect these in the way they work.
We continue to also provided our employees with the opportunity to focus our approach on four key areas: resourcing, reward, interact directly with him resulting in lively question and communication and development.
answer sessions which were of benefit to everybody.
SSLs first global employee opinion survey gave all our We are creating a performancedriven culture that supports motivated, successful people who are passionate about our future employees the opportunity to give their views to senior management.
The feedback was very positive indicating high satisfaction and motivation levels throughout the organisation, however, employees said that they were keen to receive more training and development opportunities this is something that we will act upon.
In addition, we have commenced the launch of a new initiative Open Door which provides employees with a way of voicing concerns about business practices directly to senior managers in confidence and without fear of recrimination.
We expect to complete global roll-out of this initiative by June 2007.
Underpinning these new initiatives is our communication toolbox of our global employee magazine, Be Inspired, intranet Insight and poster campaigns supporting SSLs vision and values.
Development Training and development of our employees remains an area Top: Be InspiredSSLs employee of focus and is clearly stated as one of SSLs key business magazine and My Choicesa flexible objectives.
Our approach to training and development and benefits plan.
illustrative examples are on pages 22 and 23.
Bottom: Open Door scheme is in practice for global feedback to support whistleblowing policies.
Social marketing Durex Networkcampaigning for good sexual health It has been a successful year for the Durex Networkthe brands social marketing arm which works with politicians, healthcare organisations and charitable bodies worldwide to raise awareness of HIV AIDS, safer sex and consistent condom use.
The Network received a commendation at the Fifth Annual Awards for Business Excellence for outstanding campaign work on HIV AIDS organised by the Global Business Coalition GBC on HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
26 27 Durex Network works Corporate responsibility with politicians, healthcare organisations and charitable bodies worldwide to raise awareness of HIV AIDS, safer sex and consistent condom use Founding member of the GBC SSL is a founder member of the GBC and the formation of the Durex Network in November 2005 has brought the two organisations even closer together.
Recent joint research and social intervention initiatives have led to praise from GBC managing director Joelle Tanguy: Organisations like SSL have demonstrated tremendous leadership in this area and the Durex Network is one of the global models we point to when encouraging more action among our members.
Dancing for life Another partnership which continues to grow in importance is the Networks support of Dance4Life, the youth arm of the World AIDS Campaign, using dance and movement to raise awareness of HIV AIDS among teenagers.
The charitys biennial event to mark World AIDS Day on 1 December continued to gain momentum, with 30,000 young people in ten countries dancing together via satellite link in a powerful statement of hope and unity.
The ultimate aim is to have one million dancers worldwide taking part in the 2012 event.
Continuing research Widely recognised as adding to the body of knowledge on risk factors relating to unprotected sex, The Face of Global Sex research report led to invitations for the Durex Network to present at high profile healthcare conferences during the year.
These included the 9th Congress of the European Top: SSLs partnership with Dance4Life.
Society of Contraception, 11th World Congress on Public Health and the 13th Annual Meeting of the American Public Bottom and opposite: Employees in Thailand assisting in the recovery Health Association.
A peer reviewed manuscript was also programme of a local primary school.
published in the March 2007 edition of the prestigious European Journal of Contraception.
Community SSL has operations in over 35 countries and employs around 5,000 people worldwide.
We look to support the local communities in which our employees live and work Environment by investing resources through charitable donations and This year we have exceeded our key environmental employees time and skills.
objectives relating to reductions in water and energy consumption and to reductions in waste produced.
Social Responsibility Day in Thailand In addition a further three manufacturing sites are now The damage and destruction to many houses and schools ISO 14001 registered.
caused by flooding in a number of provinces in Thailand late in 2006 spurred our Thai employees to hold a Social Further information on our environmental performance Responsibility Day in December to assist in the recovery can be found in the Environment Report 2006 07 on SSLs programme of a primary school in the Ayudhaya province.
The Social Responsibility Day was called Doing good things for the King as 2006 was a very important year for all Thai people, signifying the 60th anniversary celebration of the Kings accession to the throne.
Wat Kradong Thong School was badly affected in the flood with classrooms, playgrounds, learning tools and furniture damaged or destroyed.
The project enabled SSLs local management and employees to raise funds and donate much needed items to the school such as furniture and learning tools, plant trees and be involved in voluntary work around the school.
Breast Cancer Awareness Our global Employee Wellbeing Programme was piloted in the UK in October last year to link in with Breast Cancer Awareness Month and was designed to encourage our employees to become more health and body aware.
Employees at all our UK sites responded well to this programme and organised and participated in different fund raising events with all monies raised going towards research into breast cancer prevention and cure.
FTSE4Good SSL continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure the performance of companies that Above: SSLs environmental logo.
meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
