04 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Overview For Tate & Lyle, corporate social responsibility equates to applying our four core values safety, integrity, knowledge and innovation to the way we run our business.
This means continuous progress in achieving the highest standards of safety, considering the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do, and treating our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we work as long-term partners.
Putting these concerns at the centre of our business requires proactive management at every level within the Company.
The Board reviews Tate & Lyles policies and performance annually, and the Chief Executive is the Board member accountable for all aspects of corporate social responsibility.
Business Code of Conduct Our Business Code of Conduct the Code governs our approach to corporate social responsibility.
The Code applies unconditionally to all parts of the wholly-owned Group, and we also aim to apply the Code in those operations in which we have a 50% stake or more.
Where we have a minority stake we encourage our partners to adopt the Code.
A copy of the Code can be found on our website, www.
From time to time, we update the Code to reflect the changing nature of the world in which we operate.
We are currently in the process of revising our Code with the help of Business for Social Responsibility, a global expert in corporate social responsibility.
Once the revised Code has been completed and approved by the Board, we will distribute it to all employees both as a hard copy and electronically.
Updating and relaunching the Code reflects the level of importance the Company places on corporate social responsibility, and will help us ensure our business upholds consistently high standards across the world.
Safety Introduction Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety, which we believe is fundamental to running a successful business.
This means ensuring safe and healthy conditions for everyone at our sites: employees, contractors and visitors.
By reporting, recognising and rewarding safety performance, we aim to ensure that all our operations focus on continuous improvement.
2006 has been a year of stark contrasts in safety.
Despite many of our sites achieving world-class safety performance, both by employees and contractors, a tragic accident at our Decatur, Illinois, plant, in which one employee died and two were hospitalised, reminds us that we must never relax our efforts to achieve and maintain the highest standards of safety.
For the first time in four years, therefore, we cannot report an improvement in our employee safety record on the previous year, although we still compare well with STOP safety programme This training programme for overall US industry standards.
We are, however, proud of our contractors for having employees aims to ensure that succeeded in improving their performance significantly this year.
wherever they work, they follow the five safety steps: Decide, Stop, Observe, Think, Act.
50 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Employee safety results for calendar year 2006 Most Tate & Lyle locations equalled or improved on their 2005 performance, including 31 that reported no lost-time accidents and 15 that reported no recordable injuries for the year.
Despite this, due to the accident referred to previously, our overall results show a decline in performance compared with calendar year 2005 results.
Group safety index weighted average of injuries sustained in the workplace across Tate & Lyle, with more severe incidents having greater impact worsened by 40.1%: Recordable injury rate injury requiring treatment beyond first aid worsened by 32.1%: Lost-time accident rate recordable injury sufficiently severe to result in lost work days or to restrict the employees ability to perform his her job worsened by 26.8%: and Severity rate number of work days lost due to injuries per 200,000 employee hours worsened by 46.5%.
Finding your way in Loudon, US Employees competed to name the Benchmarking results plants new streets to raise awareness about safety.
The US and Europe compile safety statistics differently so it is difficult to compare results.
However, we can compare the performance of each of our divisions with results from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The most recent results available from the Bureau are from 2005 with the exception of the US corn refiners whose results are from 2006.
Again this year, our divisions are outperforming the average reported standard for their peers in their respective sectors and in the US private sector as a whole, with the exception of Sugars, Americas.
Contractor safety results for calendar year 2006 For the third consecutive year we have compiled contractor safety statistics.
We are delighted that 2006 has shown such good progress: our contractor safety statistics now compare favourably with those reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Compared with the 2005 calendar year results: Safety index improved by 59.7%: Recordable injury rate improved by 21.1%: Lost-time accident rate improved by 59.1%: and Severity rate improved by 61.7%.
Benchmarking safety: lost-time accident rate Group safety index Benchmarking safety: recordable injury rate 1.60 1.20 0.54 0.40 0.47 2.30 0.84 1.34 4.07 3.51 2.84 1.72 2.41 7.70 5.30 2.76 2.16 1.07 12.70 6.46 1.34 US industry 1.40 US industry 4.60 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 AE B C D F G H AE B C D F G H A US food manufacturing The smaller the index, the better A US food manufacturing B US grain milling the performance.
B US grain milling C US corn refiners C US corn refiners D Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas Our target is zero for every D Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe Tate & Lyle operation.
E Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe F US sugar industry F US sugar industry G Sugars, Americas G Sugars, Americas H Sugars, Europe H Sugars, Europe Rate of recordable injuries per 200,000 employee hours Number of injuries per 200,000 employee hours sufficiently serious to result in lost work days or restricted requiring more than first aid.
US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 51 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Benchmarking contractor safety: Benchmarking safety: Contractor safety index lost-time accident rate recordable injury rate 1.25 1.77 14.80 7.45 4.61 0.17 21.42 0.54 5.32 3.77 2.86 6.04 2.05 0 1.72 6.30 0.54 2.40 AC A B B C D D E E F F G G 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 AB AB A Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas A Tate & Lyle A Tate & Lyle B Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe B US industry B US industry C Sucralose D Sugars, Americas Number of injuries per 200,000 Rate of recordable injuries E Sugars, Europe employee hours requiring more sufficiently serious to result in lost F Citric acid than first aid.
workdays or restricted work activities.
G Vietnam US industry statistics as reported US industry statistics as reported by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Benchmarking results Contractor safety continues to compare well with the US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2005 the most recent data available.
The Bureau reports the overall recordable injury rate per 200,000 employee hours for US contractors to be 6.30 against 1.72 at Tate & Lyle, and the overall lost-time accident rate to be 2.40 against our 0.54.
Managing safety Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace requires effective, proactive management.
We have a number of network safety committees, one for each of Europe, the Americas and our citric acid business, that share knowledge and experience between plants with the aim of ensuring consistently high standards of safety across Tate & Lyle.
Our approach is based on: changing behaviour by encouraging a safety culture at all of our locations: auditing safety performance: working closely with contractors to improve safety standards we do not directly supervise our contractors employees, but ultimately will dismiss contractor organisations if they do not demonstrate the same commitment to improving safety as we do : Rewarding safety performance rewarding improved safety performance with local safety awards, divisional Employees of our McIntosh, Alabama Most Improved Plant and Group-wide Safety First awards: plant receive their World Class Safety Excellence award for 2006. sharing information and best practice amongst all our locations: improving communication on safety issues throughout the Group: and the active involvement of senior executives in auditing and promoting safety.
Awards To qualify for entry to our World Class Safety Excellence awards programme, plants must: operate the entire year without lost time: have active employee participation in their safety programme: have an active auditing programme: and demonstrate adherence to Tate & Lyles standards during executive, management and network audits.
52 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 2006 winners were: Large plant over 250,000 employee hours per year Europe: Razgrad, Bulgaria Americas: McIntosh, US Small plant less than 250,000 employee hours per year Europe: Plaistow, UK Americas: Houlton, US Most improved safety performance Europe: Koog an fide Zaan, the Netherlands Americas: Dayton, US Outlook 2006 has been a challenging year for Tate & Lyle in terms of employee safety.
We believe that everyone at our plants should be confident that they will go home safely at the end of the day.
Our focus in 2007 will be to bring our safety standards back up to what we have achieved in previous years, and to improve still further.
By continuing our drive for a safe workplace as highlighted in this report, we are determined to improve our record in future years.
Environment Introduction Tate & Lyles environmental policy is for all our operations to be conducted in light of our responsibilities towards the natural environment in which we live and work, and to comply with relevant laws, regulations and consents, which may vary from location to location.
All our locations fully integrate environmental management into their operational systems and procedures.
The Board reviews environmental performance and the Groups policy annually.
Environmental impacts are many and varied.
When reviewing our environmental footprint, it has always been Tate & Lyles policy to focus particularly on those impacts that have the most effect on the environment and over which we have direct control.
Our three most significant environmental impacts are, in order of magnitude, energy use, water use and non-hazardous solid waste production.
Energy use is by far our most significant impact, and we therefore give it the highest priority.
Managing our impacts for a positive result is good for the environment and also brings economic benefits to Tate & Lyle.
Biomass project at Thames In early 2007, we began a major new environmental project in the UK.
By March 2009, Thames Refinery will use renewable biomass to supply 70% of its energy requirements.
By replacing the use of a fossil fuel natural gas with a renewable Assessing our carbon footprint resource, this project will have significant environmental benefits while considerably We are developing a model to reducing manufacturing costs.
measure the carbon footprint of Thames Refinery, with the aim of rolling it out across the Group.
Measuring our carbon footprint Quantifying our impact on the environment in terms of carbon emissions is becoming increasingly important.
This year we are starting to research the carbon footprint of our major sites.
Initially, we are working with a UK consultancy to develop a model footprint for Thames Refinery.
If this proves successful, we will look to roll out this carbon footprint model at other sites worldwide.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 53 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Calendar year 2006 results We focus our measurement and our improvement efforts on the areas that have most environmental and financial impact.
Compared with 2005 results: Energy consumption reduced by 1.2% a 1% reduction saves an estimated 2.3 million : Water consumption reduced by 2.5% a 1% reduction saves an estimated 130,000 : and Non-hazardous solid waste production reduced by 29.5% a 1% reduction saves an estimated 20,000.
This year, although we made bigger reductions in both water consumption and non-hazardous solid waste production than last year, we did not achieve our Group Training in Decatur, US target of an annual 3% reduction on a per unit basis in energy consumption.
This is Touring the water treatment system because our product mix is changing, which can make year-on-year comparisons helps employees learn about somewhat misleading.
As we grow our business, we are making more value added environmental management during regular training.
products: however, these use more energy than our traditional products.
Our challenge, therefore, is to try to reduce environmental impacts, energy in particular, while at the same time growing our business and developing more value added products.
We do this by building environmental concerns into our processes as we develop new products.
Violation, abatement and compliance orders The vast majority of our operations completed 2006 without incident.
Where Tate & Lyle inadvertently contravened regulations, largely to do with emission levels, incidents were minor and we reacted immediately to correct the problems.
Managing environmental impacts Managing environmental impacts is very important at Tate & Lyle.
Environmental risks are included in the Group-wide risk management process, and are reviewed and assessed regularly.
For more information, see the risk factors on page 30 and the corporate governance report on page 68.
54 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Measuring data We collect detailed data and report results from each operating unit quarterly, using a comprehensive system that has been validated by our internal audit department.
We then normalise the data to reflect the amount of product manufactured.
This protects the commercial sensitivities of the data while allowing us to report publicly on our progress and make comparisons between years.
The data is then aggregated to create a single set of indices for the Group, adjusted to take account of acquisitions and disposals.
Management systems Every operating unit has an environmental management system.
Each unit is required to assess its environmental impact and develop an improvement plan based on identified areas of priority, focus and opportunity, in line with the Groups overall environmental management strategy.
Capital projects are assessed for their environmental impact, and we investigate whether there are more environmentally sound ways of achieving our aims.
Each operating unit has incident, emergency and contingency plans.
These are regularly updated to meet new conditions and requirements.
We have crisis management procedures to provide an effective response in case of incident or emergency, including escalation to the Group Crisis Management Team when required.
Training Employees receive regular training on managing environmental impacts and changes in legislation, so that they are always aware of relevant issues.
Many operating units have environmental management committees that meet regularly to discuss progress.
Customers and suppliers We work closely with our customers to ensure our systems meet their requirements.
We brief all contractors on key environmental issues to make sure that we are managing our environmental impact effectively.
In the UK we are continuing to work with environmental consultancy Envirowise on a programme to help suppliers improve their business efficiency by minimising waste and maximising cost savings.
Outlook Energy consumption is our ongoing major environmental challenge as we produce more value added products.
This makes projects such as the one to develop a carbon footprint model for our sites even more important.
But equally important is that we continue to train our people to build environmental concerns and benefits into all our processes, day by day and year by year.
Employee health and wellbeing Introduction At Tate & Lyle, we aim to lead the way in employee health.
Programmes will differ across the Group according to local needs, but all are based on the principle that the Company has a role to play in helping employees improve their health by providing information and advice on health and wellbeing.
Calendar year 2006 highlights UK Tate & Lyles occupational health programme, which includes health promotion activities, an occupational health clinic, advice on healthy eating and counselling services, has been used as a model for the UK Department of Healths Business Communities of Health initiative.
Our employees have also been involved in a number of national awareness campaigns, including Health Awareness and Breast Cancer Awareness Weeks.
Europe Supporting employees health Many of our mainland European plants offer similar health programmes to the UK.
Nurses are on hand at Programmes include Company-sponsored fitness programmes, health and wellbeing Thames Refinery, UK, to advise employees on all aspects of health awareness campaigns, healthy menu options in employee restaurants and annual health and wellbeing.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 55 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Americas In North America, our focus for health and wellbeing this year has been to help employees become better informed consumers of their own healthcare arrangements, and to adopt healthy lifestyles by providing them with tools and programmes.
These include: Blue Points system: we offer this web-based system to all employees via our healthcare provider.
It provides a platform for employees to initiate and track healthy behaviours.
Employees earn points for meeting certain health targets, which can be redeemed online for health-related items such as yoga mats and gym bags.
Health risk self-assessment: we encourage employees to complete this online self-assessment, which is then reviewed by medical experts from our healthcare provider.
These experts then give feedback and recommendations to employees.
Health and fitness: many plants offer exercise facilities or Company-sponsored fitness programmes.
Outlook We aim to continue to share best practice and ideas on employee health and wellbeing more widely across Tate & Lyle, although we will continue to manage our occupational health programmes locally to meet employees needs.
Commercial partners and suppliers Introduction Good, long-term relationships with our partners and suppliers are very important to Tate & Lyle.
We have a consistent, Group-wide approach, based on our Code of Conduct, which covers purchasing strategies at global, regional and local levels.
Supply chain ethics are also important to us, and we are committed to sharing best practice and improving standards amongst suppliers.
Raw material suppliers Across the Group we have long-standing and mutually beneficial relationships with our growers and producers of sugar cane, maize and wheat.
We apply rigorous standards to our raw materials suppliers, and survey many of them on their ethical commitment.
We work closely with them to ensure compliance with our needs, implementing traceability and ensuring that our customers requirements are fully met.
Supply chain: sugar for refining During the year we further developed our ethical programme in our sugar for refining supply chain.
A number of our senior managers attended the Ethical Trading Initiatives training programme, and we are also arranging an in-house training programme.
A more focused ethical and technical survey was sent to our sugar for refining suppliers.
Meanwhile, during our programme of supplier visits, we highlighted and discussed supply chain ethics, with the objective of improving suppliers understanding of the issues involved.
Better Sugarcane Initiative We reported last year on our involvement in the launch of the Better Sugarcane Initiative, a joint International Finance Corporation Worldwide Fund for Nature programme to improve the environmental and social impacts of sugar cane growing.
The Steering Committee has now been set up and terms of reference agreed.
Supporting growers Improving the environmental and social impacts of sugar cane growing is an important focus for our supply chain ethics programme.
56 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Sustainable procurement Aside from our raw material suppliers, we are continuing to review procurement to look at how we can encompass sustainability more fully in our strategies.
Outlook In 2007, we aim to continue to improve standards in our supply chain through developing our work on supply chain ethics, risk management and sustainable procurement, and by working increasingly closely with suppliers to share best practice on a range of issues.
We will continue to develop our supplier audit programme to ensure consistently high standards across the Group.
Communities Introduction Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all the communities in which we operate.
Over the years we have developed a Group-wide community involvement policy that forms one of the core components underpinning our ethical behaviour.
Our programme involves building long-term relationships with local partners to deliver a shared objective: establishing strong, safe and healthy communities by investing time and resources into projects that directly address local needs.
Our community partnerships are well supported by employees, many of whom take part in programmes.
Tate & Lyles community involvement benefits our employees by enhancing their own local community, offering significant personal development opportunities and making Tate & Lyle a company for which they are proud to work.
Charitable donations Actual community spend by allocation Our Corporate Donations Committee oversees community policy throughout the world.
Year ended 31 March 2007 Our aims are to select projects that target local needs and deliver the most positive Arts Education impact, and to ensure that ultimately our community involvement work reflects our 11% 47% broader responsibilities as a company.
Our guidelines for funding and support are: Health Education 50%: 19% Environment 25%: Health 15%: and Arts 10%.
In the financial year to 31 March 2007, Tate & Lyles total worldwide charitable donations Environment were 687,000 2006 766,000.
Our total global pro bono contribution in goods and 23% services is estimated to have been 218,000, up from 193,000 in the previous year.
We support many initiatives and local organisations involved in community regeneration around the world.
Listed here is a selection from each region in 2006.
UK: Tate Britain, Community Links, Community Food Enterprise: Europe: Royal Athletics Club Eendracht Aalst, fide Vlier youth camps, Koninklijk Wielersportcomit cycling tournament, Aalst, Belgium : Americas: Associated Colleges of Illinois, Millikin University Illinois, Decatur Area Arts Council: South Africa: Domino Servite School: and Vietnam: housing support programme, For the future support for schools programme, scholarships for university students, road-building programme.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 57 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate social responsibility Employee volunteering Tate & Lyle employees around the world make huge efforts to support their local communities.
Their involvement is vital to maintaining the long-term good relationships we have developed with the communities in which we operate: volunteering brings skills and experience from the workplace into the community that corporate funding alone cannot achieve.
Of the organisations we support, several have been partners for over a decade and our employees join their committees, advocate their causes in the wider community and provide mentoring and business skills.
Volunteering also brings benefits to Tate & Lyle.
Employees tell us that they benefit greatly from community work, which helps them develop their skills and become more rounded as individuals.
A strong volunteer network is vital to the success of our community involvement programme, and developing that network across Tate & Lyle is an important ongoing aim.
Here we highlight just some of the great stories during the year from our employees in each region.
UK Seeing is Believing: our Chief Executive, Iain Ferguson, led a group of 20 senior business executives on a tour around Newham, where Thames Refinery is located, as part of the Seeing is Believing Programme SIB.
SIB is a flagship programme from UK organisation Business in the Community, initiated by HRH The Prince of Wales.
It gives business leaders the opportunity to explore social issues and how businesses can play an active role in tackling problems.
Junior Citizens programme: this year we expanded this child safety awareness programme run by the Metropolitan Police, with over 3,000 primary school children visiting Thames Refinery for the annual event.
VerbalEyes at Tate Britain: this year we relaunched the highly successful Ideas Factory project as VerbalEyes.
Three hundred primary schoolchildren from schools in Newham and Greenwich completed the six-month project that Learning through art uses original works of art to improve language and literacy skills, supported by Supported by our employees, employee volunteers.
children from London schools improve their literacy skills through VerbalEyes at Tate Britain.
Americas United Way: Tate & Lyle employees continue to give generously through the US payroll donation scheme, United Way.
University of Illinois: Tate & Lyle supports a number of research initiatives at the University of Illinois, the states flagship university.
Agricultural Day at Lafayette: our plants in Lafayette South and Sagamore support the local agricultural day each year.
CocaCola scholars: Tate & Lyle supports a scholarship foundation for high school students.
South Africa Domino Servite School: we have funded developments at this school in Kwazulu Natal, and are partnering with them in the long term to support the running of the science lab.
Europe not UK Support for local children: many of our plants in Europe organise fundraising, particularly for childrens health and education.
In Aalst we supported Basket Okapi, a youth education and development programme, and Vlaamse Liga Tegen Kanker, a summer camp for young people suffering from cancer.
Helping the disabled: our Razgrad, Bulgaria plant focuses its efforts on supporting the disabled, particularly a rehabilitation centre in Razgrad for the Amazing arts and crafts social integration of children needing special care.
Dough modelling lessons captivate Supporting Zaragozas Expo bid: our plant in Zaragoza, Spain, supported children at a South African school supported by Tate & Lyle.
the citys bid to become the host city for Expo 2008.
58 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Vietnam In Vietnam, we are continuing our investment in: English language: teaching programmes in local community schools: Housing: rural housing project to improve living standards in local communities: Education: university scholarship programme for local students studying subjects related to cane sugar production: and Infrastructure: road-building programme, which brings significant improvements to infrastructure and communications.
Managing our impact Our aim is to ensure that all our sites around the world follow our community involvement policy, ratified by the Board.
We continue to make progress in developing community activities in all our locations, but there will continue to be different levels of activity reflecting the history of Tate & Lyles involvement in the area.
In locations where we have operated for a long time, such as the East End of London around Thames Refinery and Plaistow, and the Decatur, Illinois area, we have long-running partnerships with local organisations and make a considerable contribution.
In other areas where we have recently acquired sites or built new plants, our involvement is at an earlier stage.
Our aim continues to be to share best practice and improve internal standards and reporting around the world through our global Corporate Donations Committee, so that all parts of the Group develop mutually beneficial long-term community partnerships.
UK community survey results Finding out from our partners what they think of our community involvement work is very important if we are to continue to improve our programmes and encourage more employees to volunteer.
Each year we send out a questionnaire to our UK partners with our Community Involvement Report.
This year, responses showed that we are continuing to maintain our traditionally high level of performance.
Our contribution to the community was rated at 3.8 out of 4, while an excellent 75% of respondents reported an improved capability to help their target cause, up from 58% last year.
Outlook Richard House Care Award This year we plan to improve our community involvement survey, both by widening Tate & Lyle received this award for the distribution and by developing the questions.
Our aim is to get more meaningful our exceptional and long-running information from our partners about the impact of our support on their work.
We will support of Richard House, a childrens hospice in East London.
then use this information to improve our future community programmes.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 59 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
