People development At the core of everything we do is a profound commitment to understanding and servicing our clients.
They are looking for our people to be able to provide information and advice that give them the competitive edge in a challenging market.
Recruiting and retaining the best TNS is responding to this demand by ensuring that we have people with the right capabilities in the right roles to provide value-added insight to clients.
This is the essence of the TNS sixth sense of business.
It begins with recruiting the very best.
The best industry expertise: the best research expertise.
Once at TNS, we foster imagination, innovation and creative problem solving through tailored internal learning and development programmes, effective internal communication and collaboration, together with strong performance management.
A passion for what we do TNS people are knowledgeable and committed they have a passion for developing lasting partnerships with their clients and making a real difference to their businesses.
Looking inside We listen to what our people tell us and continually look for ways to enhance the employee experience, so that we can foster that passion and retain the brightest talent to serve our clients.
Yannick Carriou Managing Director, TNS Sofres Michelle Grifn Regional Director, People & Culture, ALM Tim Kidd Managing Director, Europanel Manny Inocencio Managing Director, TNS Taiwan Employee engagement in Europe Recruitment and retention in ALM TNS conducts an annual employee Whether you are in New Zealand or New commitment study, as part of its ongoing Delhi, attracting and retaining talent is critical employee engagement programme.
We use our to success in the emerging markets.
To address proprietary business solution, TRI M the worlds this challenge, 2007 saw the development of a leading product for stakeholder management.
The special Toolkit, including the materials: Why responses in Europe have provided an excellent work for TNS, Shaping a High Performance foundation from which to reinforce our strengths Culture and a TNS Passport, providing a selfand rectify our weaknesses.
directed learning pathway for new starters.
These equipped managers with the necessary tools to Getting the most from the insights relies on engage and drive performance discussions.
three things: ensuring the basics are done right: engaging the whole team, in innovative ways, There was also specic focus on heightening the to create a detailed plan on the factors most investment in our business-critical client facing important to them: and taking the right actions people, who can deliver increased revenue in the to achieve the plan.
Many of these actions advisory and specialist areas.
Diagnostic Consulting involve common themes in employee was launched, introducing a common framework motivation: increased clarity on career to establish, retain and grow client relationships.
paths: better communications: improving This programme has now been successfully the working environment.
rolled out across all 33 countries within ALM, covering 500 client-facing employees.
Perhaps more surprising is the energy and passion shown by the teams, once they realised that they were at the heart of a process that the business takes so seriously.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 17
