41 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Telecity Group plc is a company incorporated, and domiciled, in the United Kingdom and has Sterling as its presentation and functional currency.
Telecity Group plc and its subsidiaries operate in the internet infrastructure facilities and associated services industry within Europe.
The operating companies of the Group are disclosed within note 12.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 the Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed below.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Act.
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in 2007 IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements capital disclosures, introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact on the classication and valuation of the Group or Companys financial instruments, or the disclosures relating to taxation and trade and other payables.
IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires consideration of transactions involving the issuance of equity instruments, where the identiable consideration received is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued in order to establish whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
This standard does not have any impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits the impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
Interpretation early adopted by the Group and Company IFRIC 11, IFRS 2, Group and treasury share transactions, was early adopted in 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether sharebased transactions involving treasury shares or involving group entities for example, options over a parents shares should be accounted for as equitysettled or cashsettled sharebased payment transactions in the standalone accounts of the parent and group companies.
The financial effect of this was to increase the investments balance and other reserves in the Company by 628,000 2006: 321,000.
There was no impact on the income statement in the current or previous year.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 but they are not relevant to the Group or Companys operations: I IFRS 4, Insurance contracts: I IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29: Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies: and I IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company The following standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods but the Group and Company have not early adopted them: I IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
The expected impact on the segmental disclosures given by the Group is still being assessed in detail by management.
I IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations and amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements.
The IASB has published a revised IFRS 3, Business Combinations and related revisions to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements.
There are also consequential, amendments to other standards, most notably IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures.
The revised standards must be applied prospectively for transactions in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Under the revised standard, the acquisition costs are to be expensed as incurred and contingent consideration to be measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
The expected impact of this revision is currently being assessed by management.
