1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 11 12 13 14 15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As one of the worlds most respected travel brands, we are proud that Figure 1: How we manage CSR our activities can bring economic bene t to the destinations we visit, John fide Vial as well as positive cultural exchange.
At the same time we recognise our Group Director of Quality & Safety, CSR potential impact on the environments, communities and cultures of these & Government and places.
So we aim to operate in a responsible and sustainable way.
Industry Affairs This is not philanthropy.
Thomas Cook founded our business with clear social and educational intentions.
But today corporate social Ruth Holroyd Colin McGregor responsibility CSR goes much further.
It is a core business risk issue, Head of CSR Director of Quality, going to the heart of our acceptance by customers, investors, the public, Health & Safety and destination governments and communities especially in relation to the environment.
It is an investment in our brand and a responsibility to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The merger has given us the opportunity to embed CSR more deeply into the organisation a process Joanne Baddeley Nancy Brock To be appointed Team responsibilites I am supporting personally.
Sustainable Tourism Responsible Environment include employee Manager Business Manager Manager and customer health We are bringing together two companies CSR policies, structures and & safety reporting systems.
We want to do this well, to set standards that be t an industry leader.
We have begun the journey, but are The Group Director of Quality and Safety, Corporate Social Responsibility not yet where we want to be.
If you are interested in our progress, please and Government and Industry Affairs oversees development and visit the CSR section of our website at www.
com for implementation of policy, reporting directly to the Group CEO.
Reporting a regularly updated view of our emerging policies and practice.
to him are the Director of Quality, Health & Safety whose teams Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Group Chief Executive Of cer responsibilities include both customer and employee health and safety OUR VIEW OF CSR and the Head of CSR.
As part of our mission to perfect the personal leisure experience, The Head of CSR manages a team of three: we are committed to developing, operating and marketing our business sustainably.
We fide ne CSR as operating responsibly to minimise The Responsible Business Manager has responsibility for our impacts negative and enhance positive environmental, social and economic on home communities, including our relationships with suppliers in our impact: ensuring the long-term sustainability of our business and source markets.
of the resources on which we depend.
The Sustainable Tourism Manager has responsibility for our resource OUR CSR STRUCTURE and social impacts in destination communities, including our CSR is recognised as a crucial Group Board issue.
The Boards Health, relationships with local suppliers.
Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by non executive Director The Environmental Manager has responsibility for our environmental Roger Burnell, monitors the activities of our operatin g companies.
impacts including aviation, climate change, domestic energy It oversees the management of health, safety and environmental risks consumption and waste management issues.
and impact on our activities, and the development and implementation of our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Policy.
PARTNERS We work with a number of key partners including: Both Thomas Cook and MyTravel appointed CSR professionals in 2004 Federation of Tour Operators FTO : we are an active member of to increase their focus on destination and environmental impacts.
The merger in 2007 provided the opportunity for a step-change: we the FTOs Responsible Tourism Committee.
Since 2004 we have been developing a supply chain management system with the FTO: we now have created a new CSR department with a dedicated team of four, reporting to the Group Director of Quality and Safety, Corporate Social encourage overseas suppliers such as hotels to allow independent auditing of their performance across a wide range of sustainability criteria.
Responsibility and Government and Industry Affairs see Figure 1.
40|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 The Travel Foundation: we are a major fundraiser and partner for this We actively seek customer feedback on all aspects of their holiday UK charity, which works with the travel industry to protect and enhance experience, and make improvements where necessary.
In 2007 our the natural environment and improve the well-being of destination customer service scores showed good year on year improvements communities.
For more information, see www.
and for the second year running the volume of complaints reduced.
Enable Holidays: since 2005 we have worked in partnership with this TREATING EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBLY specialist rm to sell holidays for people with impaired mobility.
We have more than 30,000 employees worldwide.
Our success depends absolutely on how well we recruit, develop, train and retain WRAP: this UK government sponsored agency has been working with them.
All areas of the business offer competitive and rounded bene ts our procurement teams to help us use more recycled paper.
packages, including employee discounts on our holidays.
In the UK, our COMMUNICATING THE ISSUES Investors in People accreditation con rms our commitment to improving We cannot achieve our goals without the support of customers, performance and managing and developing our people effectively.
It is often their actions that make the Our 2006 07 UK and Ireland staff survey drew a high response and a real differences.
generally enthusiastic view of the Company: 71 per cent of employees We aim to inform customers about sustainable travel and the Travel responded, and 79 per cent expressed satisfaction with working for us.
Foundation in all our brochures, websites, in ight publications, resorts TREATING HOME COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLY and guide books.
We want to play an active part in the communities where most of We devote considerable effort to informing employees about CSR, our people live and work.
Thomas Cook has a tradition of charitable why it matters to the business and how they can contribute.
donations, and of supporting voluntary activity and fundraising by employees.
We are currently developing a more co-ordinated approach, We have made our suppliers a key part of our CSR activity, through including creation of the Thomas Cook Foundation as the primary vehicle an increasingly effective supply chain management programme.
for the Groups corporate giving and for our support of employee SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT volunteering and fundraising.
We also aim to focus our community and Our social, economic and environmental impacts are closely linked charitable support more tightly on causes related to children, education with those of our suppliers in the destinations we serve particularly and the environment.
We give them information and education During the past year the business, our customers and our employees on sustainability, and encourage them to use the Travelife Sustainability raised more than 1.2 million for charitable causes including local System a one-stop online resource for tourism businesses.
community projects, the Travel Foundation and the new Thomas Cook Since 2004 we have been working with the FTO to develop a supply Childrens Critical Care Unit at Kings College Hospital.
chain management system that will help us ensure that our suppliers TREATING DESTINATION COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLY meet health, safety and environmental standards consistent with our Whole communities, regions and nations rely on tourism for economic own policies and standards.
We now encourage overseas suppliers, development and even survival.
When tourism is managed sustainably, such as accommodation providers, to allow independent auditing it is a power for good: for education, understanding, relief from poverty, of their performance across a wide range of sustainability criteria.
sustainable development and positive social change.
These include such areas as environmental management, employment issues and involvement with local communities.
Our long-term mission is that everything we do should be sustainable and responsible, in all product areas and markets.
We will keep doing TREATING CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLY more to understand our impacts on destinations, and to ensure they Protecting our customers health and safety is a primary responsibility are favourable.
an essential part of the quality and strength of our brand.
The merger has enabled us to create a new Group Health and Safety department to The Travel Foundation has become a key partner in this.
We support the risk-manage our property, transport and excursion portfolio, minimising Travel Foundation as an active partner and in 2007 raised over 500,000 risks to our customers and therefore to our operating businesses.
towards its projects in destination communities.
We have also been supporting the FTO led Travelife award scheme for hotels and other tourism partners covering areas such as environmental management, employment issues and involvement with local communities.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|41 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 10 11 12 13 14 15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED TREATING THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLY Employees We are very committed to doing as much as we can to protect the Consolidate legacy HR policies or create new policies as necessary.
resources on which our business depends.
We constantly strive to improve Share best practice across source markets and develop Group-wide our environmental performance and minimise negative impacts resulting approach to HR.
Increasingly, this includes working with suppliers to help reduce the impacts of their operations.
Launch Sharesave scheme for employees.
We recognise that our aviation operations raise issues over energy use, Maintain UK Investors in People accreditation.
We aim to reduce our impacts progressively.
Health & safety Recent developments have included new winglets on our Airbus A320 21 Review Group-level employee health and safety management structures.
aircraft, high-tech coatings to optimise aerodynamics and reduce aircraft wash, enhanced engine wash procedures and new Green Approach Implement new online accident and incident reporting system.
In Northern Europe our websites and con rmation Give all employees access to user-friendly health and safety emails now offer passengers the option to buy carbon offsets, and from management system.
next year all internal air travel in Northern Europe will be covered by Continue remediation work arising from completed re carbon offset schemes.
The Northern European airline have led the charter airline industry on waste disposal and recycling initiatives, risk assessments.
directly in uencing various departure and destination airports.
Home communities We were the first major travel company to produce brochures on recycled Maintain partnership fundraising for organisations such as the Travel Foundation.
Now 85 per cent of our brochures use recycled paper.
Each year this will divert over 3,500 tonnes of waste paper from land ll and save Launch the Thomas Cook Foundation as primary vehicle for our corporate some 3,400 tonnes of CO equivalent to taking 10,700 cars off the road.
2 giving and support of employee volunteering and fund raising.
The consolidation of our of ces since the merger means we are Focus our 2008 giving on children, education and the environment.
currently unable to report in detail on energy and waste consumption.
Destination communities But the consolidation should itself increase ef ciency and we are working with experts to analyse energy use and identify opportunities Develop a speci c sustainable tourism policy.
Set up working groups across our source markets to share best practice and provide Group-wide consistency.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2008 This table outlines some of our principal CSR goals for the Raise another 300,000 for the Travel Foundation.
We intend to report our performance against these targets in our next Annual Report.
More details are available online Audit a further 100 properties against Travelife criteria.
co. uk Train more employees in sustainable tourism.
Customers Send out more sustainability information to suppliers.
Continue reducing customer complaints through effective quality Expand animal welfare information on our customer websites.
Create new and expanded Group environmental policy.
Share best practice across the Group.
Set up working groups across source markets to share best practice Health & safety and provide Group-wide consistency.
Develop and apply Group-wide health and safety policies UK speci c and procedures.
Establish environmental management system and reporting on of ce Converge legacy reporting systems to enable consistent health and energy and waste management.
safety reporting, and bring together property portfolio and safety Airline: develop carbon strategy and report on CO emissions.
information on a single central system.
2 Northern Europe Maintain continuing professional development of health and safety Airline: reduce fuel consumption per passenger km by 1 per cent.
staff, and train appropriate members of staff in their health and safety responsibilities.
Hotels: ensure all Sunwing resorts EU fully implement EU Flower certi cation criteria and increase the number of external hotels Review aviation safety processes, particularly for in-resort suppliers certi ed under our environmental programme.
of balloon, helicopter and light aircraft excursions.
Of ces: reduce energy consumption by 10 per cent.
42|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
