26 BUSINESS REVIEW EMPlOYEES ENVIRONMENTAl AND SOCIAl EMPlOYEES the media industry is built on its employees and in order to attain our in addition to base salary all our employees have the opportunity to goal of being a leading multi-platform media business we must rely participate in performance related incentive schemes.
for many staff on our people.
their commitment, innovation and drive are central to this is delivered as profit share, linked to performance against the the ongoing development and success of our business.
Senior executives incentive schemes are directly connected both to the delivery of profitability targets as well during the year, in which the group experienced a challenging personalised key tasks linked to the achievement of one or business environment, the voluntary rate of employee turnover was more element of the business strategy.
this compares favourably with the 2006 reported turnover of move the business forward in a significant and observable way.
19% and the average of 18% in the media and publishing sector in payment relating to the delivery of these personalised key tasks for 2007 Source: chartered institute of personnel and development the senior executives is underpinned by the requirement to achieve cipd recruitment retention and turnover Survey June 2007. in a pre-defined minimum standard of leadership and communication.
2007 the retention rate, defined as employees in the groups employment for the full 12 months, rose to 70% from 68% in the We also provide a competitive range of benefits to employees, previous year.
including health and life insurance, the opportunity to join a groupwide defined contribution pension scheme and to participate during the year the groups absenteeism rate, which follows the in a Save As you earn share plan.
common definition used by Advisory, conciliation and Arbitration Service AcAS, was an average of 2.5%.
this compares favourably ENVIRONMENTAl AND SOCIAl with the national average level of employee absence of 3.7%, but is Our environmental and social policy and statement, together with higher than the average for the media and publishing sector, which a review of our performance during 2007, is set out in the corporate experienced the lowest absence level in the private sector during responsibility report on page 30.
July 2007. trinity mirror group is committed to equality of opportunity in all its employment practices, to ensure we attract and retain the best people.
in 2007 women made up 40% of staff 2006: 42% and the number of women occupying senior managerial roles was 20% 2006: 22%.
in order to ensure that we remain competitive on base salary, we benchmark staff levels within the group.
We benchmark against specifically tailored groups of organisations, with which we compete for sector specific talent, and the general market, from which we continue to attract talent in the functional areas.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
