32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY ENVIRONMENTAl MANAGEMENT ETHICS CHARITIES Trinity Mirror hazardous waste generation Target: and recycling 2007 trinity mirror will establish further environmental staff forums at the major office locations in birmingham, glasgow and the north east Total Total % waste treated treated during 2008. generated recycled recycled ETHICS liquid wastes litres 1,712,904 1,496,948 87.4 for many years the company has had a policy on Standards Solid wastes kgs 213,536 50,508 23.7 of business conduct which we regularly review.
the introduction note: Annual total based on 3 months data 1 October to 31 december 2007. to the current policy states: Target: trinity mirror plc is the largest newspaper publisher in the UK and trinity mirror will continue to recycle 100% of all non-hazardous a major UK plc.
the continuing development and well-being of our press waste arising paper, cores and reel-ends.
business depends on all of us maintaining the highest standards of integrity and personal conduct in all matters which involve the Target: company.
the company recognises its obligations to those with trinity mirror will strive to achieve nil general waste to landfill, in-line whom it has dealings, namely its employees, shareholders, readers, with current industry standards.
advertisers, suppliers and the communities in which its businesses operate.
its reputation is one of the most vital resources of the Refrigerant gases company, and depends for its protection upon the honesty and the eU has set a timetable for ceasing the supply and use of ozoneintegrity of each and every one of us.
this document gives guidance depleting hcfc gases that have been widely used in air conditioning on how the essential standards of integrity and conduct are to be plant and process temperature control units.
trinity mirror has been maintained.
it is not intended as a statement of new beliefs or the pursuing a programme to replace hcfcs across all press and office creation of new rules of conduct.
rather, it is a reaffirmation of our locations and we are on track to meet the regulatory deadlines.
Target: finally, this document should be read in conjunction with any specific trinity mirror will replace all hcfc gases held in refrigeration code issued to individual groups of employees e. g. financial dealings equipment by the end of 2009. by Journalists or any provisions of individual contracts of employment.
Environmental management systems the policy itself is available on the companys website and gives the certification of the Oldham press site to the international iSO guidance on conflicts of interest, the acceptance of gifts and 14001 environmental management system standard represents entertainment, confidential information, insider information, and a major step forward.
the programme to implement similar political and civic activities.
environmental management systems has also got back on track at a number of other press sites.
further training will be provided to all CHARITIES press sites during 2008. the companys policy with regard to charitable donations and other such payments is as follows: the staff forums that have been established at a number of major office locations canary Wharf, liverpool and cardiff have trinity mirror believes that it can best support charities through successfully involved a wider range of employees in local energythe pages of its newspapers.
this support will either be through saving and recycling campaigns during 2007.
Other forums will be appeals to readers for donations or through editorial content, established at our other large office centres during 2008. describing the aims and activities of various charities.
in every case the decision as to whether or not to support a charity appeal or Target: whether to run editorial comment will be one for the editor trinity mirror printing will achieve certification to phase 3 of the of each newspaper.
bS8555 environmental management system standard at the newcastle, teesside, liverpool and cardonald press sites by the trinity mirror plc will make direct cash donations to charities in certain end of 2008. limited circumstances.
the company will, at a group level, support various charities connected with or associated with the newspaper, Target: printing or advertising industries.
A second category of direct cash media Wales ltd will achieve certification to level 4 of the green support will be to charities operating in the communities immediately dragon environmental management standard by the end of 2009. surrounding trinity mirrors offices and print sites.
the charities that are likely to receive support are smaller community-based charities Target: where a modest donation will make a big impact.
it is unlikely that a trinity mirror printing will ensure that at least one manager from each major national charity that just happens to be based very close to press site has completed the groundwork trusts practical one of our offices would receive a donation.
there will be a further environmental management course by the end of 2008. limited general pool of funds out of which donations will be made to legitimate and supportable causes that fall outside the above two criteria.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY CHARITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES each of our regional newspaper companies will have a small budget Media CSR Forum out of which they will make direct cash donations to charities working the group is a member of the media cSr forum.
the forum, in the community in which the newspaper is based.
Scottish daily established in 2001, is a voluntary body set up by leading media record and Sunday mail limited will similarly make a number of organisations following recognition that the practice of cSr and donations to appropriate charities based in Scotland.
sustainability for media companies has many unique features that sets it apart from traditional industry and other business sectors, the national titles of the daily mirror, Sunday mirror and the people some of which could benefit from a collaborative approach.
are most unlikely to make direct cash donations.
they will do so only where they are asked to make a payment to charity in lieu of a fee for media literacy, the process of being able to access and interact with an interview or some form of support.
Any corporate donations media and to discern the differences between fact, opinion, entertainment and advertising, is of particular importance to the requested from the national titles are likely to be redirected to the group, as the companys headquarters share the same office forum.
We believe the issues and opportunities around media literacy to be substantial and real and significant progress has been location as that of the national titles.
made, particularly in the educational arena.
however, we feel that more needs to be done to increase society and businesss awareness All group donations need the prior agreement of the Secretary and group legal director.
Any local business donations require of the issue.
in november 2006 eurorScg fuel, a global advertising agency agreed to develop the initial concepts for a campaign to do the prior agreement of the relevant managing director.
in addition to cash donations, the company is active in making donations just this and simultaneously harvard pr part of the bell pottinger group agreed to support the campaign with relevant public relations in kind in the form of used computer equipment, furniture, books, etc.
through its community involvement programmes, work.
the campaign is due for launch in 2008 and has the groups full support.
the company makes available members of its staff for volunteering and mentoring programmes.
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT the group is not a multinational nor is it engaged in heavy industry.
it is not, therefore, exposed to some of the risks faced community engagement is a core element of our local businesses, with campaigns, appeals and a wide range of other local activities by those who operate in developing countries or with significant environmental exposure.
the greatest exposure for the group would, forming part of the everyday activities of our titles.
for example, this support can either be by advertising the activities of a charity therefore, be a systems failure that led to a domestic failure of its environmental, health and safety or ethical policies.
it is unlikely that or by running appeals through which our readers donate to good causes.
in addition, however, the company also contributes directly, a failure in any of these three areas would be catastrophic.
through cash donations, to a variety of charities.
the board believes that the companys main exposure would be one of reputational damage.
the procedure that the company each year our newspapers get involved in a large range of charitable fundraising campaigns and support good causes.
Our local employs to control and manage these risks is through a regular review of its standards and systems and through training of relevant newspapers, being at the heart of communities, campaign on a wide range of local issues and spearhead fundraising activities.
the companys Standards of business conduct are embedded within the culture of the group.
more in the north east for example the Sunshine fund, which was recently the companys health and safety policies and systems have been put under review and have been consolidated and codified.
established in 1928 by King george v and adopted by the evening chronicle in 1995 has, since then, provided over 700,000 for more attention is now being paid than in the past to environmental matters.
the company believes that opportunities in these areas essential equipment, learning aids and custom-built apparatus to improve the quality of childrens lives across the region.
We believe that there are advantages to being seen as the employer of choice for those entering our industry, in July the newcastle evening chronicle launched the give tilly that decision having been made on an assessment, amongst many other things, of our corporate social responsibility programmes.
A hand Appeal to raise the money to help the youngster live as normal a life as possible after the 21-month-old lost both her hands those programmes will also be key in the retention of staff.
We also believe that there are obvious commercial advantages from being and toes to meningitis.
After starting the appeal with 5,000 from the newspapers own Sunshine fund, readers were challenged seen as a socially responsible company.
to make up the difference.
donations from businesses and readers flooded into the newcastle evening chronicle offices and within two comments to: days the money had been raised.
Paul Vickers Secretary and group legal director On 17 August 2007 our largest national title, the daily mirror, donated 2p for every copy sold to the childrens charity childline.
the paper trinity mirror plc, One canada Square, canary Wharf, london e14 5Ap also included a four-page editorial feature on childline.
this was part of wider support where all the groups national titles as well as a number of websites and regional newspapers, including the birmingham mail, liverpool echo, newcastle chronicle and the South Wales echo, also promoted the campaign.
We back this work up with further commitment from our own workforce and the group has an employee volunteering policy which enables all our employees to volunteer to work for a day to support a good cause in their area.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
