Corporate and social responsibility case study Meeting the challenge of supporting education Gordon Phillips at the Gopalnagar High School, Bangladesh Delivering longer term socio-economic benefits Across the Group in 2007 we spent over US$239,000 120,000 on educational initiatives.
In developing countries, education ensures longer term socio-economic benefits for the population, thereby building stronger and more self sustaining communities.
In many cases the most common need is for basic facilities ranging from individual desks and learning equipment through to construction of the school itself.
Improved education provides additional opportunities to the younger generation and this in turn will enable Tullow and others to recruit locally trained personnel, thereby building further skills and delivering additional benefits to the community.
In Uganda, Tullow-constructed facilities support in excess of 800 students.
In Pakistan, we supported over 1,600 students with books, stationery and school bags.
In Bangladesh, our efforts helped over 5,000 children in 10 schools.
We provided education and sports equipment, school uniforms, book bags and furnishings according to their specific needs.
In developed countries, Tullow focuses on advancing student knowledge and understanding of the industry and for the last two years we have engaged with Year 7 aged 11 to 12 years old of Norbury School in London, addressing a wide range of industry related constructive and challenging questions.
2007 by category 2007 by length of commitment Working with On-going 66% communities 50% One-off 34% Other 29% Education 14% Conservation 7% Previous page: Visit to Gopalnagar East primary school, Bangladesh This page: Visit by Tullow CSR team to Nabipur primary school, Bangladesh 36 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Directors report: Business review Corporate and social responsibility continued A challenging year for health and safety Overall the 2007 outcome is in contrast appropriate standards and controls where local legislation is less developed.
Key to It was a challenging year for health and to the steady improvement in safety performance we have had in recent years setting these standards is the preparation safety at some of our operations and this of Environmental and Social Impact and is unacceptable.
We have already impacted on overall results for key health taken significant steps to meet the Assessments ESIA and linking these to and safety performance indicators.
We management programmes that address challenge of improving our results and are disappointed by the increase in LTIs the environmental risk of our planned through positive leadership from Senior across our operations with 10 LTIs in activities.
Our focus on ESIAs has been Management plan to return to top quartile 2007, raising our LTIFR to 1.95 per million extensive and in Uganda, for example, we industry performance in 2008. hours worked.
There was also a have carried out numerous assessments significant increase in the number of across the Kaiso-Tonya valley including A strong environmental performance HIPOs reported which cannot be wholly reworking existing assessments where Our environmental performance over the explained by a revision of accident and we felt key environmental issues had not year has been good with no significant incident reporting.
Paying specific been fully addressed.
incidents and only a single spill of attention to HIPOs is a way of identifying 10 barrels in Uganda.
We also saw a 12% key learnings and creates the opportunity Better reporting reduction in CO2 emissions covered by the to implement improvements before an Previously, reported data has been mainly EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS actual incident occurs.
for UK operated assets and while these reinforcing the benefits of the Bacton are still the most significant contributors plant rationalisation programme for In 2007, we had two examples of excellent we recognised the need to reflect our which we received the Business in the health and safety performance within the widening operational base and to expand Community Big Tick award in 2007.
Our Bangora facility in Bangladesh the reach of our environmental metrics.
completed its first year of production with Over the course of 2007 the A mid-year review of environmental data zero LTIs and Lderitz, our temporary environmental performance of our was undertaken in 2007, to set logistics base in Namibia, operated operated activities complied with an appropriate corporate reporting through the full well programme for over increasingly diverse range of regulatory requirements.
Group production, drilling regimes, and we continued to set our own 200 days without an LTI.
and well test data have been collated for 1 2 Tullow people Last year, we spoke about being a great place to work and an employer of choice in the industry.
In 2007, we decided to test this by entering our London Head Office in the annual Best Companies to Work For competition for the first time.
The Best Companies organisation was set up six years ago to identify the drivers of sustainable business performance.
Their research shows that the key is workplace engagement and they set about developing an academically rigorous methodology to measure the levels of workplace engagement in companies.
The Best Companies Accreditation Scheme recognises those organisations that have achieved high levels in key areas.
The accreditation is a year-round reminder 3 of an organisations performance according to eight key factors.
These factors are significant as they are defined through survey results, and therefore by employees themselves, as critical factors in workplace engagement.
Linda Biribonwa, Environmental Adviser in Uganda 2.
Leigh Reeder, Well Services Supervisor in the UK 3.
Declan Byrne, John Doherty, Joe Mongan, Geophysical Technology Group in the Dublin ofce 38 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 the first time, offering a greater The 2007 data in the EHS key metrics Find out more about understanding of our contribution table on page 34 are taken from the data to emissions of greenhouse gases.
set that will be assured in the 2007 CSR Tullow Oil and CSR This is the first step in benchmarking Report, which will be published in Our 2007 CSR Report will be available our performance.
in May and for further information on our CSR activities you can also visit Throughout 2008 we will continue Furthermore, we plan to widen assurance to expand the scope of our coverage over the next two years.
com tlw cr data collation to develop an even more comprehensive view of the Groups Outlook for 2008 Tullow Oil plc Corporate and social responsibility report 2007 environmental performance.
Our focus for the immediate future is on restoring a strong health and safety External assurance performance, building fully representative How are we meeting the Over the last two years we have steadily environmental data and increasing our challenge?
improved the overall level, quality and social and community spending to detail of the data we report in our CSR targeted levels.
One common issue in feedback challenging and we look forward to from stakeholders is external assurance achieving them.
of the CSR Report, to provide greater confidence in the data being reported and verification of the robustness of Tullows internal data collation and calculation processes.
In response we have commenced a three-year programme with Deloitte & Touche LLP to give assurance on Tullows EHS data at Group level for 2007.
The factors are: Leadership how employees feel about the senior Tullow achieved 3-Star status on the first attempt, managers and the companys values: which is the highest possible award status.
Only 15% of companies who entered this year achieved this, My manager how employees feel about and so we are naturally proud of this result.
communicate with their direct manager: However, while we do appreciate that this is a just Personal growth what employees feel about training snapshot in time we have set the standard now and and their future prospects: must work hard to ensure that we maintain this Wellbeing how employees feel about pressure through feedback and engagement across Tullow.
at work and work life balance: This is one of the challenges we face as we grow into My team feelings towards their immediate a larger, more diverse Group operating major colleagues and how well they work together: projects in many different countries.
Giving something back the extent to which In response, we will continue to recruit the best employees feel their organisation has a positive talent into the organisation and keep people at the impact on society: top of the agenda to ensure we remain a great place to work.
My company the level of engagement employees have for their job and the organisation: and Fair Deal how happy employees are with their pay and benefits.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
