36 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Overview Environment Good corporate citizenship and respect for the communities The importance of observing and promoting good environmental in which we operate is central to the way in which UBM practice has become more apparent as the debate on the effects does business.
We believe that this philosophy is good for our of climate change has continued.
We have identified the principal business and our profits by contributing to the development areas relevant to our environmental footprint as energy usage, of a positive culture and boosting the morale of our employees.
waste recycling, paper sourcing and usage, and transport.
Responsibility in demonstrating such values rests with Key initiatives here include the following: divisional management.
We continue to pursue policies to reduce energy usage in the In 2007 we established a steering group bringing together workplace.
During 2007 our principal UK office, Ludgate House, representatives from all UBM businesses, chaired by UBMs Chief once again participated in the 100 Days of Carbon Clean Up Financial Officer and Deputy CEO, Nigel Wilson, who champions campaign to reduce carbon emissions and achieved a reduction corporate social responsibility CSR activity at main Board level.
of 79 tonnes of CO over the period.
During the year Ludgate 2 The steering group provided a forum for our business divisions to House also switched its electricity supply to green energy which share information on CSR initiatives and to develop best practice.
contributed further reductions, resulting in a total saving of It also provides the mechanism through which CSR issues are 353 tonnes of CO in Ludgate House.
At the start of the year we formulated a set of objectives Recycling initiatives are in place at the majority of UBMs offices.
encompassing environmental, community, workplace and Items recycled include paper, cardboard, glass and aluminium.
As UBM continued to develop and During 2007 we exceeded our target of recycling more than share knowledge it became apparent that the way in which our 60% of all waste at Ludgate House and our offices in Preston divisions approach CSR issues varies from business to business, and Tonbridge achieved recycling rates of 75% and 57% and accordingly it is inappropriate to seek to develop a standard respectively.
Divisions are therefore encouraged Green office initiatives have been introduced throughout the to prioritise CSR issues in line with their own business needs and business and staff orientation programmes include office to set their own targets, subject to the underlying principle that environmental awareness training.
their approach to CSR should focus on support for the business strategy and the mitigation of risk.
Paper sourcing and usage continues to be an area of focus for It continues to be our belief that CSR should be embedded our individual divisions and their suppliers.
Generally, we seek to use less paper in the workplace through measured directives and in the business culture rather than managed by a separate department, and accordingly responsibility for development introducing cultural change, for example by email reminders and double-sided document printing.
CMPis magazine titles are and implementation of CSR initiatives rests with each division.
During 2008 we are aiming to provide further information on now printed on oxybiodegradable paper.
our CSR activity on our website www.
Both internally and externally, we communicate increasingly Through our membership of the Media CSR Forum we are by electronic means, through our website and by using able to engage more fully with stakeholders, sharing ideas on best webcasts.
We have taken advantage of new legislation on practice and continuing to monitor and debate issues of particular e-communications introduced by the Companies Act 2006 relevance to the media sector.
and have invited our shareholders to enable us to communicate Governance and ethics with them more quickly and effectively through electronic UBMs Statement of Business Principles governs our relationship means rather than by paper.
with our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and the Once again UBM, in conjunction with Digital Links International, wider community and forms the basis of our corporate values.
donated IT equipment to enable around 5,000 people in the It is available on our website at www.
developing world to access Information Technology for the Our well established governance processes are described in more first time.
During 2007 the computers and IT equipment detail in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 54 to 56. were reused to encourage Ugandan girls to study Science, to Remuneration policy for senior management is aligned transform education in Tanzania, and to help NGOs in Kenya.
with stakeholders interests and is described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53.
Bonus targets for senior management include measures aimed at developing and progressing CSR activity.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Marketplace Marketplace initiatives are gaining awareness, as evidenced by products such as CMPis THINK conference, Working Buildings Week 2007 and CMP Asias conference on eco fashion at their Fashion Access Exhibition in October 2007.
In 2007 CMPi, ran the first ground-breaking Think exhibition and conference about sustainability in the built environment.
Think07, which featured keynote speakers such as Al Gore, former US vice-president, and HRH The Prince of Wales, dramatically reduced its carbon footprint, by being CMPis first trade show in the UK not to use carpet, which typically is not reused and goes straight to landfill instead the floors were painted using environmentally friendly paint: by constructing stands from re-usable and recyclable materials where possible: Think 07 Al Gore, former US vice-president, addressing by encouraging all exhibitors to produce promotional literature seminar regarding sustainability in electronic format only and holding exhibitor workshops on in the built environment.
In line with the sustainable ethos of Think, and in a bid to further reduce its carbon footprint, the Think press office will be going digital, using no hard copy materials at all, during 2008.
CMPi is taking the lessons learned from Think07 to help reduce the carbon footprint not only of future Think events, but all CMPi events.
Workplace UBM employs over 6,000 people around the world.
Attracting, recruiting, engaging and retaining a highly skilled and diverse pool of talent remains one of UBMs highest priorities.
As described on page 34, ensuring our continuing ability to attract and retain key talent is an important risk factor for UBM and our employment policies, which are described below, are designed to address and mitigate that risk.
Positive culture Throughout 2007, we have pursued our stated aims of creating profitable growth and a positive culture at UBM.
Our investment in training and development, our focus on performance management through appraisal systems, the use of engagement surveys to identify priorities and our continuing involvement in local community projects and charities, all contribute to creating a positive working environment.
Reward and recognition schemes across UBM, such as the CMPi annual People and Culture Awards and the CMP Asia quarterly Staff Values Awards, also recognise the exceptional work of individuals and teams.
Employment policies Detailed employment policies are in place across our businesses, which are constantly reviewed and adapted to meet the changing needs of the business and the workforce.
Employment policies and practices cover areas such as recruitment, training, flexible working, paid leave e. g. maternity, paternity, adoption, parental, carer and sabbatical leave, diversity, data protection, antimalpractice Whistleblowing and other policies tailored to meet, and often exceed, the requirements of local jurisdictions.
38 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued In 2007, CMP Technology was ranked no.
2 in the US on the list Rights Campaign Foundation, as one of Americas best companies of Top 100 adoption-friendly work places as assessed by the Dave for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender workers.
UBM was Thomas Foundation for Adoption and was praised for giving also rated silver standard in May 2007 in the Opportunity financial assistance and paid leave to employees going through Now diversity benchmarking exercise.
As at December 2007, the adoption process.
As detailed below, we believe that our 11.35% of the workforce in the UK who stated their employment policies including cutting edge flexible working ethnic background in monitoring questionnaires were of black policies have a significant effect on engagement and retention.
or minority ethnic backgrounds against a general ethnic The voluntary turnover rate across UBM for 2007 was 15.9% population of 8% in the 2001 UK Census.
In the US, 22.0% of compared to a voluntary turnover rate in the UK media and the workforce is of minority ethnic background against a general publishing sector of 18.8% and a voluntary turnover rate for minority ethnic population of 22.9% in the 2000 US Census.
UBM recognises the specific needs of individuals and, in particular, ensures that appropriate adjustments are made to Diversity enable the employment of disabled persons.
Should employees We are a global business with employees, customers, partners become disabled during employment, every effort is made, and suppliers from a wide range of cultures and backgrounds.
through appropriate training or other adjustments, to It is crucial to our success that we tap into these differences accommodate their disability and enable them to continue to enable us to respond to the rapidly changing business to pursue their career.
environment, to meet the diverse needs of our customer base, and to enhance creativity and personal development.
People development and training UBM aims to create a culture of diversity and inclusion, where UBM places a particular emphasis on the personal development the unique talents that every individual can bring to the business of all staff to achieve their full potential.
Employees across UBM are fully recognised.
We have equal opportunities policies and participate in ongoing appraisal and assessment procedures, programmes in place to ensure employees are selected and and within each buisness both internal and external training is promoted solely on the basis of their skills and ability to do the provided, ranging from management boot camps, leadership job, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation development programmes, webinars and formal classroom or disability.
Employees receive training on diversity, equality and training to individual coaching programmes.
For example, in anti-harassment issues.
For example, every employee in the UK 2007, PR Newswire completely revamped and enhanced its new undertakes diversity workbook training and completes an hire orientation programme, expanded on its building a better interactive test when they join UBM a training tool which boss initiative and launched new one on one coaching to provides measurable results and extensive anti-harassment provide key management personnel with an even greater level of training programmes take place in the United States.
Staff are encouraged to and assisted in obtaining relevant Specific efforts are also made to increase the number of qualifications.
In addition, intra-group transfers are facilitated women and people of diverse backgrounds in senior executive providing both development opportunities for staff and ensuring roles, including training and coaching, internships, and ensuring that their skills and expertise are applied to the most relevant parts that benefits and leave programmes encourage retention of talent.
The participants in the CMPi Leadership 45% of the participants in the Business Leaders Programme 2007, Development Programme are actively working with five nonUBMs flagship development programme, were women.
governmental organisations in Brazil as part of the programme.
As at December 2007, 59% of the employees across UBM were UBM actively seeks to attract the best talent, and development women and 40% of senior executives across UBM were women.
opportunities and management skills training are provided Cutting edge flexible working policies were introduced in throughout the organisation.
Over 90% of the 2007 graduates of 2000, which were specifically designed to meet individual the CMPi sponsored graduate recruitment programme secured personal circumstances and to satisfy business needs.
Since their permanent positions at CMPi at the end of their year on the introduction, we believe these policies have made a significant scheme, and many participants from previous years have gone on contribution to the recruitment and retention of a more diverse to forge very successful careers within the organisation.
In 2007, CMP Technology won the Alfred P Sloan aim to develop tomorrows leaders through the flagship Business Award for Business Excellence in Workplace Flexibility, Leaders Programme.
The 2007 programme brought together distinguishing the Company as one of the top practitioners of delegates from across UBM and the modular programme, workplace flexibility in the US.
In an employee engagement survey spanning the year, is very successful in its aims of developing at PRNewswire, US employees rated PRN 15 points above the high-calibre business leaders and raising their profile within UBM, norm and UK employees, 13 points above the norm on work and provides a valuable tool in UBM succession planning process.
Another programme is in place for 2008 with selected delegates Just one illustration of the success of our policies is the fact from the various global businesses.
that in 2007, for the fourth consecutive year, CMP Technology received Best Place To Work GLBT Equality seal from the Human Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Reward strategies Health and safety UBM has developed policies on compensation, rewards and We recognise our responsibility to provide a safe working benefits that ensure that the best talent is recruited, retained and environment for employees, and for exhibitors and visitors engaged.
The objective is to ensure that all staff in all locations to our many conferences and exhibitions.
All divisional CEOs are treated fairly and we aim to follow best employment practices are responsible for making sure that their businesses operate within the local markets in which we operate.
We promote and in compliance with relevant health and safety legislation reward based on merit and the individuals contribution to the and procedures.
Reward arrangements include bonus and long-term During 2007 we introduced an online health and safety incentive schemes payable on the achievement of financial and reporting system to assist in fulfilling our health and safety personal objectives.
A wide range of other benefits are also responsibilities more effectively and efficiently and to allow us available including Company pension schemes, life assurance to monitor and improve our performance.
During 2007 the and medical facilities.
In the event of redundancies, UBM makes system was implemented in all UK divisions.
The system enables sure that proper procedures are followed with affected staff in a series of safety checklists and assessments to be carried out accordance with Company policies, and that redundant staff on a formalised basis and provides an electronic follow up for are treated fairly in accordance with local best practices.
During 2008 it is proposed to roll out the reporting system Communication to overseas jurisdictions as appropriate.
UBM believes that clear and open communication with employees is fundamental to fostering a positive culture and achieving our Benefits business aims.
An ongoing dialogue with employees is achieved For the past two years UBM has, through its Salary Exchange through staff surveys with follow up action plans, appraisals, Scheme, offered a Cycle2work scheme, developed with Halfords, newsletters, divisional Intranets, town hall meetings, web chats, which enables its UK employees to take advantage of the blogging, innovative use of webinars and wikis.
Regular UBM Governments tax exemption on bicycles provided for staff to wide e-mail updates from the CEO keep employees informed cycle to work.
By the end of 2007 over 100 employees being of business strategy and developments.
In addition, employee 6.4% of the UK workforce had entered the scheme and were consultative forums in place in UBM businesses offer a valuable cycling to work.
vehicle for the exchange of information with management and Community also give employees the opportunity to meet and share views.
UBM recognises the importance of its relationship with the HR Metrics communities in which it operates, and aims to support and Having conducted research into the HR Metrics that should be encourage charitable activities of various kinds.
With the measured, UBM began a process in 2007 of streamlining our involvement of our employees UBM supports charities and metrics and focused on those areas where value can be added not-for-profit organisations around the globe: from smaller grassto the business by greater understanding of people issues and roots donations, to large long-term international projects where trends.
This included the development and implementation employees can really see UBMs money making a difference: of appropriate performance management systems in UBM from volunteer project support to donations in kind, tapping companies and measurement of levels of staff engagement across into the wealth of expertise of our employees and supporting the business.
Annual staff attitude and engagement surveys, their energy and enthusiasm in their charitable works.
already in place in some businesses, were extended to the whole During 2007 we continued to develop our charitable of UBM, providing invaluable information to ensure that all staff donations policy.
This is administered by a central charity are actively engaged with the business and are committed to the committee which allocates funds to each division to be expended delivery of business objectives.
At PR Newswire, a number of in line with established guidelines.
As a media and information departmental working groups were created that reviewed the group, UBM particularly supports projects which promote survey data in liaison with colleagues, to identify initiatives that education and literacy, and media and communications.
could positively impact employee engagement.
Whilst UBM is keen to maintain this important legacy we are also eager to assist in relieving poverty and homelessness, and Sharing best practice promoting healthcare both in the markets we operate and in The Company continues to work with organisations such as society more widely.
The development of our offshoring activity Opportunity Now, The Employers Forum On Age, Stonewall has opened up exciting opportunities to engage with local and The Corporate Leadership Council.
Membership of these communities in wider geographies, most notably in India.
Within organisations affords the opportunity to identify and share best the policy guidelines our businesses, through consultation with practices and to develop effective networks with other employers.
employees, are encouraged to nominate causes they feel it appropriate to assist, thus enabling employees to gain recognition and support for the causes that are important to them.
40 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility continued Oxfam education As well as supporting not-for-profit activities at a local level, programme renovated donations are also made from a central fund to support major four schools in Mbandaka projects, often with long-term funding and resource commitments.
and Kinshasa, Democratic The following are just examples of some of our larger projects: Republic of Congo.
Over the past three years UBM has donated 150,000 to an Image Harmonie Attwood Oxfam education programme in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, renovating four schools in the poorest areas of Mbandaka and Kinshasa, and facilitating the training of 25 teachers.
Over 3,000 pupils, 49 teachers and 52 parent committees at these schools are now directly benefiting from this project.
CARE International UK Further details can be found at provides improved http: www.
uk get involved companies ubm.
html primary education to 40,000 girls in In 2007 UBM donated 50,000 to CARE International UK for Uttar Pradesh, India.
their Girls Education Programme GEP in India, which aims Image CARE, Jenny Matthews to provide improved primary education to 40,000 girls from marginalised communities of Uttar Pradesh, between six and 16 years old, by 2010.
UBMs donation has been directed towards primary schools in two districts of Uttar Pradesh, allowing CARE to carry out teacher training and ongoing support for 145 primary schools and have provided library books resulting in 80% of Cleveland Boys & schools in the area having a regularly used library.
Girls Club UBM has provided funding for a communications programme Children of the Cleveland Boys & for Samraksha, an Indian charity which tackles issues related to Girls Club participate HIV Aids education: in after-school arts In Romania UBM donated 10,000 for the building of a respite and crafts.
care home for Agents of Change, which provides healthcare and rehabilitation for handicapped and disabled people: UBM has committed 150,000 to Basic Needs www.
org to develop a knowledge database for mental health, which in time it is hoped will create a model Painting Pumpkins for treatment of mental health.
A PR Newswire During the year CMP Asia began a project to construct a employee painting Primary School in Meixi Village, one of the poorest villages in pumpkins with children Yangbi, China, which will provide a safe learning environment for at the University of New Mexico the students and teachers.
The project is ongoing and is expect to Children's Hospital.
Commonwealth Business Media donated US$25,000 to Reading Is Fundamental, which prepares and motivates children to read by delivering free books and literacy resources to those children and families who need them most.
The partnership with RIF has also opened up volunteer opportunities for all its employees.
During 2007 employees at PR Newswire voted on which charities they wished to support.
Future donations will now be allocated depending on the level of volunteer work undertaken by PR Newswire staff.
PR Newswire also operates a Volunteer scheme whereby employees may take time off each year, with pay, to devote to the cause of their choice, such as the Cleveland Boys & Girls club and the University of New Mexico Childrens Hospital.
In the US, CMP Technology operates a nationally recognised volunteer programme, Community Connection, which has long standing, established partnerships with around 70 not-for-profit organisations, and supports over 260 not-for-profit organisations through grants.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Some of the charities we have supported during the year The increase in the level of donations being recommended for organisations in developing countries such as India and China reflects the expansion of UBMs businesses into the developing world.
Employees at CMPi, who are engaged on an offshoring initiative, have already established a strong relationship with Manavya Orphanage in Pune, India, which has benefited from their continuing support.
UBM also operates a payroll giving scheme in the UK, whereby regular donations by employees are matched by their employer: and a separate matched giving scheme through which fundraising efforts by UBMs employees are matched on a one-off basis.
During 2007 543,372 was donated to over 80 charities recommended by employees around UBM: this represents cash donations only and does not include pledges of future funding nor donations in kind such as employees time nor used computer equipment.
During 2008 our aim is to standardise and expand our employee volunteering programme to ensure that as many employees as possible have the opportunity to participate in community efforts, and to enable us to evaluate more accurately the financial contribution that such efforts represent Many of UBMs businesses have initiatives in place to make their products and services more accessible to the voluntary sector.
PR Newswire has expanded its specialist services for NGOs and not-for-profit agencies and, in times of crisis, PR Newswire has sometimes rendered its services free of charge, for example, during the 2007 California wildfires.
In the UK PR Newswire has developed a link with www.
uk, which seeks to improve charities access to the media.
In 2007 the CMPi Leadership Development Programme LDP worked with four UK charities The Bridge Trust in Tonbridge, The Aquarius Community Centre in Manchester, CRASH in London and Thames Hospice Care in Ascot whereby four groups of four participants worked on projects which took three months to complete.
CMPi gave each group time off work to complete the projects, giving the participants the opportunity to bring business and commercial skills to help the charities concerned, helping to bring structure and support to allow them to continue the vital work that they do.
During early 2008 the LDP will be culminating in the 15 participants travelling to Brazil to lead projects with four NGOs.
The five groups of three senior CMPi Managers each will be spending eight days with each of the NGOs.
The projects range from introducing financial and communication structures, to helping to build a centre for Doutores da Alegria The Doctors of Joy in the heart of So Paulo, to alleviate some of the suffering of terminally ill children and to bring a humanising element into hospital care.
During 2008 we will continue to investigate the possibility of similar opportunities for co-operation with the voluntary sector.
42 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Section 2: Governance 43 44 Board of directors 46 Directors remuneration report 54 Corporate governance statement 57 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media plc consolidated financial statements 58 Report of the directors Section 2: Governance
