Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility Ultra's innovative exibility Six of the last seven benets programme for UK employees has been in appointments at Managing operation for seven years and 79% of employees use Director and President level it to adapt their benets to suit their own needs were made through internal promotion For example, Sonar & Communication Systems received a letter Ultra is a responsible citizen of commendation from the Chief of the Air Staff for performance Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible on the Litening Pod UOR Urgent Operational Requirement for corporate citizen.
As such the Group complies with all applicable the Tornado.
legislation in the areas of trading, employment, health and safety and the environment.
Ultra further believes that, in order to Ultra businesses also work very closely with customers in the achieve superior business performance, the Group must, in development of new products.
certain areas, exceed the minimum standards required by law.
Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are generally Employees established by the Board with individual businesses taking a People are at the heart of Ultra major role in their implementation.
The performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual and team contributions made by employees.
Ultras success in Business ethics innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of Ultra requires that the Groups employees comply with the spirit skills and capabilities of employees.
All managers in Ultra, and principles of laws and standards of conduct of the countries in supported by HR professionals, work towards the aim of delivering which it does business as well as behaving ethically and with an efficient organisation with competent and committed people to fairness.
Directors and employees are required to avoid personal meet the Groups business commitments.
conicts of interest regarding company business and are bound by Ultra people have been recognised during 2007 including Kim strict rules on insider dealing and insider information.
Wrighton, Managing Director of the Groups Controls business, In addition, all businesses are strictly required to comply fully with who was awarded the Order of the British Empire in the Queens the relevant national export control regulations.
They are also Birthday Honours List for services to the defence industry.
The required to conduct their business in strict accordance with nomination followed Kims inspirational leadership of the competition and anti-trust laws.
successful Surface Ship Torpedo Defence SSTD programme at Sonar & Communication Systems.
Ultra supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the countries in which it operates.
In order to ensure that Group businesses can recruit, retain, motivate and develop the right staff, Ultra pursues a range of Ultra does not make any political donations.
initiatives, which are described below.
Customers Employment practices and standards Customer relationships Ultra believes that superior business performance can only be Ultra promotes good working relationships with all its customers with achieved through having committed and efficient people.
a special emphasis on meeting its commitments.
The Group receives Achieving this high quality requires Ultra to recruit widely and with direct feedback on relationships from UK MoD Supplier Relations no bias or discrimination.
It is therefore the policy of Ultra to be an Group and from many customers such as BAE Systems where Ultra is equal opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful a member of the Major Equipment Supply Programme MESP.
The or unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, MESP reduced in size during 2007 to just five companies but this disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or political more focused list still includes Ultra.
The refreshed MESP purpose is belief.
In addition, the Group is a responsible employer, seeking to to adopt a strategic enterprise level engagement to understand achieve a culture of fairness to employees and of being a good strategic objectives, and to maximise synergy, commercial benets place both to work and develop a career.
Employees and and consistency of approach to both parties.
applicants are treated equally and fairly in respect of recruitment, Individual businesses work very hard to promote excellent remuneration, training, promotion and career development.
relationships with customers and receive feedback in the form None of Ultras businesses use forced, compulsory or child labour.
of metrics as well as recognition of exceptional performance.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility UltraNews is the Groups Kim Wrighton, Managing in-house magazine for Director of the Groups employees and reached its Controls business, was 26th edition in 2007 awarded the Order of the British Empire in the In Queens Birthday Honours List for services to the defence industry Development and training Employee consultation The Group actively supports and invests in training and development Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra involves linked to business needs.
Each business is responsible for identifying effective communication and consultation.
This takes a number of the training needs of its employees and managing its own training forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine UltraNews, budget.
This typically takes place through individual employee company-wide strategy and performance presentations, birthday performance and development reviews, which are held at least and communication lunches, cascade team brief meetings and annually.
Specic training programmes are provided for individuals as YOURviews employee surveys.
Additionally, training programmes on leadership and The YOURviews employee survey provides local management management processes and techniques are run at Group level along teams with feedback and an opportunity to benchmark performance with workshops on Ultras successful competitive strategy, strategic across the Group.
The process is typically repeated every one to two selling, programme management and systems engineering processes.
years: during 2007 the survey took place in 13 businesses and Individual businesses provide a wide variety of training and showed high levels of employee satisfaction and engagement.
As well as tuition reimbursement for Succession planning shorter programmes, support also ranges from apprenticeship An annual organisation and succession plan is produced by the programmes to sponsorships at bachelor, master and doctorate level.
Managing Director or President of each business and is used to Ultra also has very strong links with a large number of universities.
identify development actions for employees with high potential.
It For example, USSI serves on the IPFW Indiana University-Perdue also reviews the performance of the business management teams University Fort Wayne Industrial Advisory Committee for the and any planned organisational changes.
Good succession College of Electrical and Computer Engineering and provides direct planning has allowed six of the last seven appointments of monetary and advisory support to the new Center of Excellence Managing Directors and Presidents to be filled internally.
During 2007 formal links with Brunel Health and safety University were established by Command & Control Systems and A healthy, committed workforce working in a safe environment is this allows undergraduates to experience engineering in the necessary to achieve better business results.
Ultra therefore places defence sector for themselves.
PMES has a KTP Knowledge great emphasis on maintaining high standards of health and safety.
Transfer Partnership with Shefeld University.
All Ultra businesses are required to have a written local policy, to Manufacturing & Card Systems M&CS has a dedicated training have the necessary resources to implement the policy, to provide facility and has four trainees undergoing Modern Apprenticeship adequate information, instruction and training for employees and training.
In recognition of its commitment to development and to implement monitoring of health and safety standards.
training M&CS won, in October 2007, the Dorset Open4Business The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board Training in the Workplace Award.
member with overall health and safety responsibility.
The Benets Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses Ultra offers competitive and comprehensive benets to all employees, are responsible for implementation of the policy.
The Group believes in rewarding its Bi-annual audits by independent, external, qualied assessors employees well for good performance.
covering health and safety matters are conducted, most recently in All US and Canadian employees are offered medical plans.
Audits and the resulting follow-up process have proved businesses promote and offer specic wellness programmes such effective in reaching and maintaining high standards across all sites.
as smoking cessation, health screening and online resources.
Each business is required to submit a separate annual report on Retirement benets health and safety issues.
The results of the audits and annual reports Ultra offers retirement benefits to employees in the UK, US and from each business are reviewed by the Board annually in January.
Further details are provided on page 24.
26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility Ultra is committed to MSI scored 99% in the working together with others in the UK aerospace external health and safety audit and defence industry in order to develop in 2007, while ATS and USSI competitive supply chains scored 98% ATS, Datel and DNE scored 100% in the external environmental audits in 2007.
Health and safety of employees, visitors and the local communities in which it operates, that effective measures are in community alike is taken very seriously by the Group and the place to ensure that the Group minimises the environmental individual businesses.
Ultra has a formal environmental policy that addresses compliance Suppliers with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, Supplier and other partner relationships waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials and the Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, competitive establishment of appropriate environmental performance standards.
tendering process on an arms length basis or through formal Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a bi-annual teaming agreements.
Conflicts of interest are avoided at all times.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Such relationships engender a cooperative culture which helps Board member with overall environmental responsibility.
The with problem solving and helps to accommodate changes to Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements are responsible for implementation of the policy.
also entered into where appropriate and provide benefits for Ultra and its suppliers and partners.
Bi-annual external audits covering environmental matters are conducted by independent, external, qualied auditors: the last Supplier payment policy audit took place in 2007.
As with health and safety, the audits and Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and the resulting follow-up process have proved effective in reaching conditions under which they conduct business transactions with and maintaining high standards of compliance across all sites.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier The results of the audits and annual reports from each business are is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
The reviewed by the Board annually in January.
Groups actual payment performance at the end of 2007 is In 2007 Sonar & Communication Systems joined Manufacturing & described on page 22.
Card Systems in being accredited to ISO 14001.
Datel is a member Supply chain and SC21 of the Lancashire Business Environment Association.
Ultra is a founding signatory to SC21, the SBAC-led action plan for Nearly all Ultra businesses have video conferencing facilities.
These 21st Century supply chains, which was launched at Farnborough have been progressively installed over the last nine years and have International in July 2006.
Ultra is therefore committed to working proven highly effective in holding reviews and other meetings together with others in the UK Aerospace and Defence industry in eliminating the need for travel.
order to develop supply chains that remain competitive, so that Ultra is able to deliver increased value to its customers.
Charitable and community activities In addition to the charitable donations made by the Group see Senior Ultra representatives participate in the various SC21 page 31 for details Ultra employees are actively supported in Working Groups and the Key Customers Group to assist the SBAC their charitable fund-raising endeavours.
A large number of local with the implementation of SC21.
and national charities is supported.
Local communities Charitable activities at businesses across Ultra vary from donations Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible partner in to fund raising events including sponsored walks, runs and the communities in which it operates and in which its employees competitions.
Many thousands of pounds are raised in this way.
The Group has a positive attitude to environmental issues addition, special assistance is given in a number of ways from and is pleased to support selected charities and maintain links donating blood and clothes collections to work experience and with the local communities.
the youth sports teams sponsored by Airport Systems in the UK Environment and DNE in the US.
Ultra recognises it is important, both for its employees and the Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 Chief Executives report
