AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Corporate social responsibility report 20 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 20 07 06 2007 14:53:29 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report The Directors recognise the importance The Groups employment policies are Charitable donations of corporate social responsibility and continuously under review and are aimed The Companys major charitable donation endeavour to take into account the at meeting or exceeding the legislative this year was 30,000 to The Outward interests of the Groups stakeholders, requirements in the countries in which Bound Trust.
This large donation was made including its investors, employees, the Group operates and wherever possible instead of sending out Company Christmas customers, suppliers and business promote a considerate and exible cards, but was also part of our ongoing partners when operating the business.
approach to work life balance issues.
support to this Trust, who provide financial The Group believes that having assistance nationwide for disadvantaged empowered and responsible employees Environmental policies young people to attend outdoor adventure who display sound judgement and The Groups operations consist of courses.
These courses complement awareness of the consequences of their software development and sales and mainstream education by teaching decisions or actions, and who act in an administration functions and therefore important life skills and an I Can attitude ethical and responsible way, is key to by their very nature have a low to life challenges.
The Company also the success of the business.
The Group contributed funds towards the costs of policy is to meet the relevant relief teams in the US helping to re-build Employees statutory requirements and apply homes following the devastation caused by The Groups success depends on the good environmental practice in the hurricane Katrina.
Other small charitable quality of the people and aims to retain, running of our ofces.
The Group has donations were made to local charities.
develop and attract high calibre active recycling campaigns which are These smaller local donations are, on the employees in the UK and overseas.
The Group whole, via requests from employees who The Group places considerable value on utilises video conferencing technology have been involved personally in some way their involvement and aims to keep them wherever possible in order to minimise with these charities.
informed of matters affecting them as the amount of air travel.
employees, which is achieved through a variety of formal and informal means.
Health and safety Although AVEVA operates in an industry The Group is committed to the principles and environment which are considered of equal opportunity in all its employment low risk from a health and safety practices, policies and procedures.
The perspective, the Group recognises Group does not tolerate any harassment or its legal responsibilities to ensure the discrimination.
The Group practices equal well being, safety and welfare of its treatment of all employees or potential employees and to maintain a safe and employees irrespective of their race, sexual healthy working environment for them orientation, nationality, ethnic origin, and for visitors and sub-contractors religion, disability, age, gender or marital whilst they are on AVEVAs premises.
The equal opportunities policy The UK ofces are covered by a Health covers all permanent and temporary and Safety Committee, re wardens and employees, all job applicants, agency staff, first aiders.
Other ofces around the associates, consultants and contractors.
world have similar cover dependent upon The Group also endeavours to be honest local needs, practices and customs.
The and fair in its relationships with customers Group has appropriate systems in place and suppliers and to be a good corporate which review local and worldwide policy.
citizen, respecting the laws of countries in which it operates.
