Report of the Directors continued Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Terms of reference review proposed that this should be complemented by a system The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee CRRC of continuous improvement akin to the systems Unilever uses for comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors and one safety, health and environment, based primarily on selfExecutive Director, the latter being the person who chairs assessment at site level and supported by periodic external audits.
The self-assessment methodology is designed to be consistent with that used to monitor suppliers compliance with our Business In May 2007 three new independent members were appointed to Partner Code.
the Committee Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu.
They replaced Antony Burgmans and Lynda Chalker who Business Partner Code retired.
Wim Dik stood down from the Committee in September Unilevers Business Partner Code is based on its Code of Business 2007.
Leon Brittan replaced Lynda Chalker as Chairman of the Principles.
It makes clear our expectations of suppliers in the areas Committee and thanked departing members for their support and of health and safety at work, business integrity, labour standards, the valuable insights they had contributed to the Groups consumer safety and the environment.
management is responsible for the roll-out of the Business Partner Code and for gaining supplier assurance.
The Committee has responsibility for overseeing Unilever's conduct as a responsible corporate citizen.
It is also charged with As these areas are of increasing concern to both manufacturers ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected and enhanced.
and retailers, many companies are launching similar assurance Inherent in this is the need to identify any external developments initiatives, leading to multiple demands on suppliers to provide which are likely to have an inuence upon Unilevers standing in evidence of appropriate management policies and compliance society and to bring these to the attention of the executive team.
with recognised social, environmental and labour standards.
One of the issues the Committee oversees is that of sustainable As both a customer and a supplier, Unilever has a clear interest in development.
In this capacity the Committee is building links with avoiding this resource-intensive duplication of effort.
To this end, the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG a body of Unilever initiated a collaborative forum with peer fast-moving five eminent people who advise on Unilevers sustainability consumer goods manufacturers to develop a common approach strategy.
To facilitate greater synergy between the two groups, to supplier evaluation through self-assessment and shared audit.
members of the CRRC share the briengs of the USDG and are The Committee endorsed Unilevers commitment to responsible invited to join their meetings.
sourcing and offered suggestions to reinforce communication around the Business Partner Code.
Full details of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committees terms of reference and details of the members of the Corporate responsibility strategy Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available at Committee members reviewed Unilevers updated corporate www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance responsibility strategy, including its CO2 reduction targets.
The importance of pursuing clear and realistic targets was Meetings emphasised, along with the need to engage retail customers on Committee meetings are held quarterly.
In 2007 the Committee this agenda, which is becoming an increasingly important part of discussed a range of topics including Unilevers Code of Business their business activities.
The Committee recommended that the Principles, human rights, its Business Partner Code and supplier elements of the strategy be reected clearly in Unilevers next assurance, corporate responsibility strategy, reporting and sustainable development report.
Members also studied the metrics measurement.
Further details of these discussions are set out Unilever uses to measure progress in its corporate responsibility below.
initiatives and suggested ways in which these should be reinforced.
Code of Business Principles At its April meeting in Durban, the Committee discussed the As part of its watching brief on current issues of concern to practices of Unilever South Africa in implementing and society, the Committee also received and commented on updates communicating the Code of Business Principles.
Committee on a range of issues, including Unilevers approach to biofuels as a members commended Unilever on its thorough and rigorous source of renewable energy, carbon footprinting, marketing to approach to procedures for upholding the principles and its children, the use of size zero models in advertising, sustainable ongoing efforts to maintain awareness of the Code through sourcing of tea, packaging, and feedback on Unilevers diverse communications channels.
participation in the World Economic Forum at Davos.
Human rights Board assessment of the Committee The Committee supported a review of Unilevers approach to The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the human rights.
The aim of the review was to ensure that Unilever Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
continues to live up to its ethical standards, as dened in the Code of Business Principles, and that effective communications More information about Unilevers corporate responsibility and compliance mechanisms are in place.
It concluded that initiatives is available at www.
com further training was needed and that clearer denition of the various elements of human rights was required in order to Leon Brittan Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and increase employee awareness and understanding.
Reputation Committee Genevieve Berger Currently, compliance monitoring of Unilevers human rights Narayana Murthy obligations is delivered via the positive assurance process.
The Hixonia Nyasulu Ralph Kugler Executive Director Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63 This page has been intentionally left blank 64 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Contents Statement of Directors responsibilities 66 Financial record 122 Auditors reports 67 Principal group companies and non-current investments 125 Consolidated income statement 69 Company accounts Unilever N. V. 127 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 69 Notes to the company accounts Unilever N. V. 129 Consolidated balance sheet 70 Further statutory and other information Unilever N. V. 131 Consolidated cash ow statement 71 Company accounts Unilever PLC 132 Notes to the consolidated accounts 72 Notes to the company accounts Unilever PLC 134 1 Accounting information and policies 72 Further statutory and other information Unilever PLC 136 2 Segment information 77 3 Gross profit and operating costs 81 4 Staff costs 82 5 Net f finance costs 82 6 Taxation 83 7 Combined earnings per share 85 8 Dividends on ordinary capital 86 9 Goodwill and intangible assets 86 10 Property, plant and equipment 88 11 Other non-current assets 90 12 Deferred taxation 91 13 Inventories 91 14 Trade and other receivables 92 15 Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets 92 16 Financial liabilities 94 17 Financial instruments and treasury risk management 97 18 Trade payables and other liabilities 102 19 Provisions 102 20 Pensions and similar obligations 103 21 Equity 108 22 Share capital 109 23 Other reserves 110 24 Retained profit 111 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 112 26 Acquisitions and disposals 113 27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 114 28 Reconciliation of net profit to cash ow from operating activities 116 29 Share-based compensation plans 117 30 Related party transactions 120 31 Key management personnel 120 32 Remuneration of auditors 121 33 Events after the balance sheet date 121 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65
