DELIVERING VALUE 32 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Sustainable development is an integral part of our business philosophy.
Our processes and performance have evolved on safety, health and environment in tandem with our sustainable development goals.
We stay committed to continue to improve our performance in line with our HSE & Social Policy.
Reiterating our commitment A dedicated full time team of 288 HSE experts, 40 community development experts and 126 village extension workers This year we took a step forward in bringing more clarity and transparency of our reported performance.
We have employed across our operations steer these functions.
We have spent over $49.7 million across all our operations aligned some of our performance objectives and targets in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, G3 on HSE related projects, inclusive of $32 million for environmental protection and improvement projects.
These guidelines and have reported on 10 core non-economic indicators highlighting our sustainable development are in addition to normal safety operating costs.
core parameter EN30 as per GRI G3 guidelines.
Our performance has shown positive trends on most aspects.
spent over $14 million on our community programs.
Our Approach Enabling Processes Each business operation had developed relevant objectives A process based management system drives our Sustainable Development efforts: and targets based on its past performances and current business imperatives, while delineating improvement 1.
Established governance structure, with Board level HSE Committee, management and implementation teams: programmes.
Special emphasis was placed on propagating and implementing the requirements of Management 2.
Institutionalised HSE and Social policies, management processes and systems: Systems ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000, employee and contractor training and continual reviews audits 3.
Setting targets with focus on measuring and improving processes, activities and resources: for performance evaluation through internal and external experts.
Providing active support for enabling resources like Our total workforce strength as on 31 March 2007 was manpower and training.
Of this, a healthy 5% core parameter LA6 as per GRI G3 guidelines was represented in formal joint Framework and Resources A Board appointed HSE Committee chaired by management-worker health and safety committees.
Dr SK Tamotia, a non-executive Director met on three occasions during the year and comprises of: Ongoing training programs were planned for our employees, contractors, and the communities to build their Dr SK Tamotia: Chairman Mr KK Kaura: CEO Vedanta capacities.
This included around 0.4 million man-hours of HSE related training, translating to about 12 hours per Mr MS Mehta: CEO HZL Mr Pramod Suri: President BALCO person during the year.
We have also provided around 0.5 million man-hours of training on community Mr Ramesh Nair: Vice President SIIL Mr CP Baid: Director Operations KCM development activities to our relevant employees and surrounding communities.
Mr CSR Mehta: Coordinator HSE Ms Ruby Thapar: Coordinator CSR The training activities and programmes comprised of the The Committee focused on the following in 2007: following: n Induction training for new employees and contractors n Setting annual targets for performance improvement on safety, water management, energy conservation and n Refresher training for existing workforce n On-the-job professional trainings periodic monitoring of performance: n Initiatives to identify and develop options for utilization of n Specialized in-house and external training n Advocacy and livelihood related training to the wastes like fly ash, slag, gypsum and red mud: n Approve CSR plans and review implementation status: surrounding communities.
n Identification and development of CDM projects as part of climate change initiatives and opportunity to generate As a standard operating philosophy, before commencing any project and or process modifications, we carry out additional revenues: n Linking safety performance to annual performance detailed investigations like environmental impact assessments, risk assessment studies, HAZOPs, social review for all executives.
mapping and need assessments which form the basis of our planning.
Safety performance is a key agenda at all As the impact of our activities varies from region to region, each business unit has its own corresponding committee to review meetings.
drive the centrally initiated as well as local sustainable development initiatives.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 33 In order to increase learning opportunities, we have At HZL, the ramp up of the energy efficient Chanderiya enrolled ourselves with several professional bodies hydro smelter to full capacity enabled an improvement in relevant to our business operations.
In addition, our power consumption at the smelters by almost 8% over the engagements with various internal and external previous year.
Continuous improvement initiatives at the stakeholders on regular basis ensured that we addressed Rampura Agucha Mine reduced the specific energy mutual needs.
The stakeholders are identified by the consumption at the mine by almost 2%.
operations based on relevance of the issues to be ENERGY CONSUMPTION GJ MT discussed.
100 200607 OUR PERFORMANCE 200506 200405 80 This section of the report reviews our performance on health, safety and environment during the year.
External 60 verification was conducted on the reported core environmental and social health and safety related 40 indicators.
20 Environmental Performance Six core environment parameters pertaining to usage 0 of materials, energy, water and discharge of emissions, HZL BALCO MALCO STERLITE KCM CMT effluents and other wastes have been identified in line with GRI, G3 guidelines and our performance against At the new Balco smelter, based on pre-bake technology, each is detailed below.
peak current efficiency of 93.6% was achieved.
Installation of lower size impellers, replacement of motors, replacement of Energy lower rating switch gears, installation of variable frequency Energy is a primary resource in all aspects of the metal drives and capacitor banks at the alumina plant all led to extraction processes, the primary being the smelting better energy utilisation at Balco.
improvements were adopted at Malco.
Direct energy fuel used for process requirements and At SIIL there was a significant reduction in LPG generation of captive power consumption core parameter consumption through the use of pre-mix burners for EN3 as per GRI G3 guideline was 48.86 million GJ.
Further implementation of other projects such as the year, our operations purchased 2,017 GWH of electricity installation of a steam heater instead of an electrical heater core parameter EN4 as per GRI G3 guidelines.
led to a noticable reduction in power consumption.
Against a target of 5% reduction over 200506, in specific energy consumption HZL, Balco and SIIL achieved reductions of 12, 21 and 20% respectively.
Status of Certifications of Vedanta Operations to HSE Management Systems Company Unit ISO 14001: certification OHSAS 18001: Certification SIIL CMT Tuticorin smelter SIIL Certified Certified Silvassa copper refining facility SIIL Certified Certified Mt Lyell mine CMT Not intended Not intended Thalanga mine CMT Not intended Not intended HZL Rampura Agucha mine Certified Certified Rajpura Dariba mine Certified Certified Zawar mining complex Certified Certified Chanderiya smelter Certified Certified Debari smelter Certified Certified Vizag smelter Certified Certified BALCO Manipat mine Certified Certified Bodai-Daldali deposit Kawardha mines Under Certification Under Certification Korba complex Certified Certified MALCO Yercaud mine Certified Certified Kolli Hills mine Certified Certified Mettur Dam complex Certified Certified KCM Konkola mines Certified trans recommendation Certified Nchanga mines Under Certification Certified Nampundwe mines Under Certification Certified Nkana smelter Under Certification Certified HZLs Debari and Vizag operations are also certified to SA8000 BALCO remaining are expected to be certified by Dec 2007 KCM remaining units are expected to be certified by Dec 2007 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 35.78 28.45 25.53 107.1 93.357 74.07 82.36 81.3 80.47 12.1 11.5 9.18 54.69 58.06 68.05 5.07 4.83 5.02 DELIVERING VALUE 34 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT KCM experienced an increase in energy consumption due Waste Water to certain process interruptions in the smelter and mine Water being a precious commodity, we have maintained operations.
However during stable operation energy zero effluent discharge status at all our Indian operations.
consumption was in line with that of the previous year.
There are continuous efforts to use the wastewater by recycling in our processes.
Our smelter complexes have Water been provided with effluent treatment plants and reverse Total water withdrawal across our operations core osmosis plants, while sewage treatment plants are parameter EN8 as per GRI G3 guidelines during the provided in townships for adequate treatment of the 3 year was 119.4 million m. wastewater prior to recycling and reuse.
Each of our operations developed their water management Studies were undertaken at the tailing dam of Rampura strategies and nominated water managers to design and Agucha mines on geological micro-structures to assess implement specific programmes.
Against a target of 10% potential seepage and aquifier vulnerability.
These studies reduction in specific water consumption levels, we achieved have endorsed the safety of the dam structure.
The water reduction of 10, 30 and 43% at HZL, Balco, and CMT accumulated in the dam is recycled in our mining complex.
3 At KCM in Zambia, 93.61 million m of mine wastewater is Water management projects at HZL included construction discharged after treatment to local surface water bodies.
3 of a 12,000 m rainwater catchment pond, recycling of reverse osmosis plant rejects and recycling of treated KCM experienced a discharge of acidic effluents from its process and sewage effluents.
The Rampura Agucha mines Nchanga operations on 5 November 2006.
Immediate achieved 100% recycling of process wastewater and corrective action was taken and normal operations 3 commissioned 425 m per day capacity sewage treatment restored within a few days.
A database on aquifer is being maintained through piezometer wells to continuously A challenge at CMT is operating a site with century old assess the impact of mining on groundwater.
infrastructure that was designed to discharge wastewaters to the river.
CMT over a 10-year period has invested in a BALCO recycled discharge from calcination kiln cooler bed and phased out the wet disposal of red mud.
At MALCO, various recycling and replacement measures were CASE STUDy 38.4MW WIND FARM, instituted.
JAMNAgAR, gUJARAT At SIIL, projects like interconnection of the utility blow down water to the phosphoric acid plant and construction 3 of a 30,000 m rainwater catchment pond were initiated.
Water consumption at KCM, during stable operations, was maintained at the same level as in the previous year with process interruptions having some impact.
CMT has discontinued the long-standing practice of disposal of tailings in a river and installed improved sediment retention and discharge water treatment systems achieving a reduction of 43%.
It has shown a strong collaboration with the Tasmanian Government, Australia for conserving the natural water resources.
WATER CONSUMPTION CUM MT Most of the power generated in India is through 200607 600 thermal power plants given the large coal reserves 200506 in the country.
200405 500 400 We run our own captive power plants to meet the requirements of our mining and smelting operations 300 at all our locations.
These operate at a high PLF and 200 low auxiliary consumption as compared to the power utility plants.
100 0 We have an aim to generate 10% of our energy HZL BALCO MALCO STERLITE KCM CMT requirement through green energy.
HZL has taken a step forward in this direction through use of renewable sources by placing a turnkey contract for 123MW Wind Power Project.
The first phase of 38.4 MW was successfully commissioned ahead of schedule during March 07 at Gujarat India.
The balance part of the project is under execution and will be progressively commissioned during 200708.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37.47 31.85 25.89 212.38 171.25 116.51 120.9 99.6 103.85 9.73 8.77.00 8.84 554.75 340.37 365.22 48.88 48.54 27.26 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 35 state-of-the-art tailings storage facility that has stopped the BALCO has initiated technological modifications such as long standing practice of riverine tailings disposal.
installation of new smelter-pot control software and Considerable progress has been made in closing-off old hardware and introduced continuous monitoring of the pots drains and wastewater discharge systems from the for reducing PFC emissions from aluminium smelting concentrator and installation of improved sediment retention processes at its Soderberg technology based smelter.
Both and discharge water treatment systems.
BALCO and MALCO have taken up projects on use of dry scrubbing processes to capture PFC emissions in their Air Emissions alumina plants.
Since some of our activities generate airborne emissions such as sulphur dioxide, fluorides and dust, we have taken Solid Wastes adequate control measures to reduce such emission to Our mining and metal extraction activities result in the within permissible regulatory standards and have complied production of both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes: with the same.
such as mine overburden, tailings, slag, red mud, jarosite, fly-ash and gypsum.
We have focused on proper The significant emissions core parameter EN20 as per identification, characterisation, quantification, segregation, GRI G3 guidelines from our processes are SO and 2 fluorides.
During the year, the total SO emissions were 2 123,844.82 mt and total fluoride emissions were 99.97 mt.
CASE STUDy ENVIRONMENTAL The technology adopted at the new smelters at HZL and DISChARgE AT KCM Balco is designed to have minimum emissions.
BALCO and MALCO have been successful in reducing Puncture of Muntimpa Tailings Dam delivery pipeline fluoride emissions from pot rooms by introduction of dry resulting in discharge of acidic effluents.
scrubbing technology replacing the existing wet gas scrubbing systems.
Other air pollution control projects implemented at BALCO included installation of a cyclone Preventive measures taken: in alumina plants calcination stack to reduce SPM and 1.
Non-destructive testing of Muntimpa pipe line adoption of point feeders in 13 pots to reduce substantial commissioned, dredging of Chingola stream and fluoride emissions to be extended to other pots in a pollution control dam.
New pipes installed where the weaknesses were identified.
At HZL, SO emissions have decreased during the year 3.
Installation and commissioning of an additional 2 primarily due to installation of tail gas scrubbers.
Bag double stage pump station at the PCD with a filters were changed at the Imperial Smelter Furnace ISF dedicated HDPE pipeline, guarding against spillage section of HZLs Chanderiya unit and installation of a new to the Kaufe river in future.
ventilation system is in progress.
A new 9 km pipeline being installed.
90% completed HZL, workplace air quality was improved by reducing acid and scheduled for completion by June 2007.
3 mist levels to below 1 mg m through a six sigma project on 5.
All catchment ponds within the Tailings Leach Plant roof extraction system.
Dust emissions have been reduced kept empty at all times to provide buffer capacity in the HZL mining operations through use of chemical for any spill.
wetting agent on haul roads for dust suppression: this also reduced requirement for water sprinkling.
The use of Investment on remedial measures mechanised vacuum sweepers around the mill areas in n Total $6.135 million surface operations at the HZL mines made a significant n Desilting work at the bridge and renewal of impact in lowering ambient dust levels.
Strict monitoring Muntimpa pipeline $4.0 million.
controls were implemented at Chanderiya smelter through n Installation of a new pump station at the Pollution installation of online Continuous Ambient Air Quality Control Dam and Pipeline replacement Monitoring Stations, online SPM analyser on dross grinding $2.0 million.
stack in cell house and online SO analyser in tail gas n Other expenses $0.135 million.
Climate Change We have taken measures to reduce GHG emission from storage and safe disposal of all types of waste.
Most of our our operations.
mineral wastes used in the construction of tailing dam and other wastes are either disposed to lower end applications Workshops were conducted by experts on CDM processes e. g. gypsum to cement manufacturers or disposed in for GHG emission reduction.
tailing dams or secured landfills.
Some of our fly-ash goes for cement manufacturing and we are also exploring the For instance, a project involving installation of a feasibility of its use in brick manufacturing.
Certain backpressure turbine for utilising waste gases of roaster hazardous wastes such as waste used oil, refractory plant at Chanderiya smelter of HZL has been registered refuse, batteries are sold to authorised recyclers with the UNFCCC as a CDM project activity.
This achieves registered with the regulatory authorities.
multiple objectives of reducing the GHG emissions, generating revenues and improving the efficiency of existing processes.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 36 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT CASE STUDy EFFLUENT TREATMENT SIIL The most common method to treat effluent water from Road constructed from copper slag a copper smelter is ferric sulfate-lime treatment, in which the hazardous waste generation is extremely Studies were undertaken by SIIL along with the Central high.
In continuation of SIILs efforts to maintain zero Road Research Institute CRRI, New Delhi which has discharge, improve the treated water quality and confirmed safe usage of copper slag in road applications.
reduce hazardous waste, a new plant based on sodium Now efforts are being put to use copper slag in road sulfide-lime treatment process has been set up to construction.
A further study to have BIS standards fixed address this issue.
The treated water quality has for usage of copper slag in cement applications is being improved substantially and there is 35% reduction in pursued.
New benchmarks have been attained in gypsum sludge generation.
We have also installed the primary disposal to the cement industry at 1,30,000 mt during the clarification system as part of this process.
Earlier the year as compared to 70,000 mt of gypsum during the solids were disposed of in the secured landfill SLF.
With the, primary clarification system in place the load on SLF has been greatly reduced.
This system will also A technical committee was formed by the Honorable collect copper and other precious metals in the Supreme Court of India in 2003 to assess the status and primary process and recycle them back to the smelter recommend improvement measures on hazardous waste which were otherwise being lost in the effluent.
The entire process is fully automated and centralised.
CASE STUDy CONTINUOUS AMBIENT During the year, we have generated 88,202,056 mt of solid AIR QUALITy wastes, of which 2,122,269 mt was re-used, 3,108,872 mt MONITORINg CAAQM was disposed to SLF and remaining 82,970,915 mt was disposed in other safe and permitted ways including tailing dams, slag disposal on cemented platform based on their characteristics core parameter EN22 as per GRI G3 guidelines.
Waste management initiatives at BALCO included switching over to dense phase disposal of red mud, use of spent pot lining SPL as fuel in the cement industry, recovery of fluoride salts from tunnel dust, ESP dust and carbon muck from smelters, and construction of secured landfills for the safe disposal of hazardous waste.
At MALCO, a pioneering initiative was taken on red mud SIIL took the initiative in installing online analysers for disposal to deploy this in cement applications and this has monitoring SO, SPM and NOx which are connected to a 2 been recognised by monitoring bodies, as a benchmark single server through our telephone lines.
The manual in the aluminium industry.
66% uptake of red mud by the ambient air quality monitoring stations AAQM have cement industries has been achieved after reducing the been replaced with CAAQM stations.
Through the caustic soda content.
wireless network using mobile service, four remotely located stations are connected to a single server At HZL, major initiatives included disposal of stabilised by data fax numbers.
The readings of the seven jarosite sludge from hydrometallurgical zinc smelters in continuous monitoring stations are displayed at the secured and lined containments in Chanderiya smelter.
main gate of the plant, bringing in transparency in our environmental reporting to the public at large.
At Debari the moore cake treatment plant continues to recover zinc from waste.
Further, as a measure towards recycling of At SIIL, an alkali tail gas scrubber was commissioned wastes, anode mud is being recycled in the leaching and at a cost of INR 80 million $1.8 million to reduce the 2 cadmium plant to reduce the fresh MnO consumption at SO emission levels below 1 kg tonne of sulphuric 2 Debari.
Waste rock at the mines of HZL is used for the tailing acid produced and to improve the process efficiency dam embankment and in road construction.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 37 management in Indian industries.
This committee, as part of its routine, assessed four of our operating sites at HZL CASE STUDy DRy SCRUBBER SySTEMS and SIIL.
The committee expressed satisfaction on the FOR REDUCINg FLUORIDE hazardous waste management practices at these sites and have made some suggestions which are being implemented.
EMISSION AT BALCO Green-belt Both BALCO and MALCO installed dry scrubbers for We continue to develop green-belt and green-cover in efficient removal of fluoride from the pot room exhaust and around our operations.
With expert botanists and gases at total cost of INR 900 million $20.5 million.
horticulturists engaged across our operations.
Green-belt has been assessed from time to time for efficacy and Dry scrubbing is a technologically advanced fume appropriateness of species diversity and remedial scrubbing system available for the aluminium industry measures are initiated wherever necessary.
Several of our where the hydrogen fluoride in gaseous form is operations have undertaken plantation rallies involving absorbed on alumina and the fluoride rich alumina school children and local communities.
is used in the smelting process.
The existing wet scrubbing process had a scrubbing efficiency of 70% At all our operating sites, we have increased the green-belt that increased to 98.5% by the use of the dry scrubbing coverage by planting over 270,000 trees and over 1 million process.
This has resulted in reduction in the fluoride Jatropha saplings.
emissions and specific fluoride consumptions per tonne of aluminum produced.
CASE STUDy REDUCINg SO 2 EMISSIONS TO AMBIENT AIR AT hZL Jatropha plantation Safety Performance The ongoing programme to reinforce safety was supplemented with the following initiatives: n Training entire workforce contractors included for recognising and managing workplace risks.
n Actively involving employees in safety management.
Chanderiya and Debari smelters of HZL have commissioned the Tail Gas Treatment plants at total cost of INR 210 million $4.8 million to reduce their SO emissions from the acid plant stack by 50% from 2 4 kg tonne to 2 kg tonne of sulphuric acid produced.
This advanced technology was selected in preference over commonly used and cheaper technology such as lime scrubbing, which also produces sludge as a hazardous waste.
HZL adopted the state-of-the-art technology developed by Mitsubishi Corporation, Japan to treat the gases using zinc oxide solution and Safety training in progress at HZL zinc sulphate solution thus produced during the process is recycled back to the hydrometallurgical plant for recovery of zinc.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 38 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT LTIFR At the beginning of the year, we set a target of reducing the CASE STUDy FLy ASh BRICKS LTIFR by over 20% at all our operations.
We are pleased to ENTREPRENEUR report that our operations showed a significant reduction of 35% during the year.
LTIFR at SIIL, BALCO and HZL have consistently declined.
Disappointingly at KCM there was Korba district is a hub for thermal power generation and marginal increase due to rock-fall incidents in underground consequently ash is generated in plenty.
Disposal and mines and at MALCO due to some deviations by contractors.
utilisation of fly ash is a challenge.
BALCOs Samriddhi project aimed to train local youth in making bricks from The total injuries during the year were 1,246 and total Fly Ash, thereby also providing them a sustainable lost time injuries LTIs were 277.
The injuries have source of livelihood.
We connected with TARA resulted in 336,636 lost man-hours, which means Technology and Action for Rural Advancement a NGO that on an average 3.05 man-hours have been lost for the technology and training and procured 20 units of per 1,000 hours of work executed.
machines and engaged 80 unemployed youth.
We remain committed to achieving zero fatalities in all our Devki Nandan attended the one-week training operations.
Despite a continued focus on safety, there were organised by BALCO.
Within a record period of ten five fatal incidents involving employees and eleven involving days his group produced 16,000 bricks and started contract personnel at our operations during the year.
supplying it in the market at the rate of INR 1,500 per Further we had two contract personnel fatalities at the thousand.
The cost of production per thousand bricks projects site.
At this rate his group was saving INR 600 per thousand.
However his group was facing problem By business, there were ten fatalities at KCM, four at in transporting fly ash from the steam plant.
To render HZL, two at Balco, and one each at MALCO and VAL.
HSE sustainability BALCO arranged for roster based committees have investigated all these incidents and action dumping of Fly Ash at identified locations reducing has been taken to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.
cost further and increasing profitability.
We have tied in with a leading consulting organisation IRCA to improve the safety performance specifically at With this success we are exploring newer markets and our KCM mining operations.
The above reported safety parameters on injury and fatalities are intended to correspond with reporting of core parameter LA7 as per GRI G3 guidelines.
Safety Administrative Controls As proactive measures towards preventing accidents, several engineering controls have been put in place.
These include use of work permit system, HAZOP study and compliance, routine safety inspections, safety protocol systems, walk CASE STUDy PROJECT KALPTARU through and joint surveys, and safety audits.
LTIFR Jatropha Curcas is a major source of bio-diesel, an environment friendly fuel, which yields results after three 25 200607 years of plantation.
Each plant provides 5kg of seeds in a 200506 200405 20 year, which when converted would generate at least 2 litres of diesel.
15 10 We have undertaken major initiatives on Jatropha.
BALCO has planted one million Jatropha saplings in 5 Korba, Mainpat and Kawardha districts of Chhattisgarh in partnership with the District Forest Department, 0 Village Development Committees and 450 households.
HZL BALCO MALCO STERLITE KCM CMT VEDANTA This will benefit not only the families with sustainable livelihood opportunities but also help in conserving the Internal and external audits were undertaken by specialists environment.
Most of the plantation done is on poor and other relevant agencies and these audits have provided degraded land ensuring reasonable utility of the land, valuable feedback to the operational teams to assist as it is a non-grazing and hardy species requiring very with improving safety risks on a preventative basis little water.
With such a massive drive of plantation, wherever possible.
there would be reduction in greenhouse effect too.
HZL has planted 55,000 jatropha saplings.
Motivational and Enforcement Systems Appraisals of all employees including the top management are linked to individual and team performance on safety.
In addition, separate award schemes are in place at HZL, SIIL, BALCO and MALCO, including monthly recognition at BALCO and near miss reporting at all our operations.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 25.21 10.70 5.46 7.19 3.75 2.14 10.28 1.41 3.29 4.13 0.34 0.21 2.3 1.51 1.65 5.75 2.79 5.36 5.5 3.84 2.51 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 39 Occupational Health Education the Key to Moulding Communities Our focus is on exposure to dusts containing heavy metals Our education initiatives take an all encompassing view.
such as arsenic, lead and cadmium, gaseous emissions such From pre-school to schooling to skill development we as SO and fluorides, and other physical conditions such as engage from child care centres to scholarships, formal 2 high noise levels in certain activities and heat stresses.
education to study centres, sports and cultural activities for all-round development of children and adults.
Occupational experts have been employed at all mines and smelters for regular occupational health examinations of all We run: employees, contractors and workplaces.
Initial and periodical n 10 schools for formal education to over 7,500 children.
medical examinations are carried out as per regulatory n 53 balwadis preschool centres for over 2,500 children requirements.
In addition, specific medical examination is in the age group of 35 years.
also carried out with respect to blood lead level cadmium n 18 evening study centres supplementing education for level, chest X-rays, audiometry, spirometry and vision.
over 1,600 children at SIIL and MALCO.
n The Sterlite Maitri Mangal Post Graduate Girls College At HZL, special focus is given to monitoring lead levels in SMMPG, a residential higher education centre had an blood.
We are ensuring use of protection against the impact enrollment of over 746 rural and tribal girls for their of lead through better respiratory protection equipment, regular course and 500 plus for their distance learning compulsory for all employees in the plant.
Similarly, programme from 65 villages in Rajasthan.
employees in mines are examined for silicosis levels.
n 14 non formal education centres providing basic literacy skills to adult women.
At SIIL, all employees are examined once a year as part of n 350 children and teachers were awarded various well-person screening programme.
check-ups such as height, weight, pulse, blood pressure, n Sports and cultural activities also form an integral part skin test, oral cavity, vision, abdomen, chest X-ray, ECG, of the education process.
pulmonary function tests are being carried out.
Employees from various sections undergo different tests based on risk.
Also, to establish health mapping for the copper smelter operations, an occupational health assessment study was conducted through an external agency and to assess the health status of the community in a 5 km radius of the plant premises, an epidemiological and health status survey was CASE STUDy SAFETy STEWARD carried out externally.
SySTEM AT BALCO At KCM silicosis surveillance touched compliance levels of more than 95%.
All supervisors working in underground Riding on the success story for HSE Steward System and surface plants have standard first-aid certificates.
implemented at SIIL operations in Tuticorin since 2005, BALCO implemented a similar system with participation Social Beyond Business: Enhancing Quality of Life of shop floor supervisors, engineers and technicians At Vedanta, we lay particular emphasis on enhancing the selected from different shops in smelter, alumina and quality of life for the communities in which we work.
The nominated safety stewards were have a holistic approach to development broadly engaging trained to identify unsafe conditions and unsafe acts of in Social Investment addressing health, education and people, and also trained in fire fighting and first-aid livelihood, Bio Investment comprising of water harvesting, aspects to take corrective actions.
This has greatly agriculture and social forestry and the Environment reduced the trend of accidents this year.
The safety focusing on planting trees, conservation, and promoting department monitored the programme, and the best eco-technologies.
performing stewards were identified during the year.
The first three winners were awarded with a merit We have applied and developed our capabilities for dialogue certificate and cash award.
The HSE Steward System and partnership with communities and other like minded has promoted safe behaviour and reduced risks at our organisations and as a result we appreciate the interplay of BALCO operations.
social, economic and environmental implications of our activities.
Our project designs are a result of study and consultation, leading to mutually agreed objectives with a five year perspective.
Forty full-time team members supported by 126 village extension workers and 900 HIV AIDs peer educators at KCM reach out to 150 villages touching over 2.0 million lives in India and Zambia.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 40 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT A Healthy Society is an Empowered Society multicropping, training, technical inputs, farmers meets, Our programmes are preventive and curative and are run in organic manure and better quality seeds enhancing partnership with the district health authorities and other incomes by approximately 70% for more than 1,300 bilateral organisations.
A health strategy has been put in farmers.
We achieved over 1,100 acres of land under place to ensure quality health care for the community at cultivation with monthly incomes going up from INR 1,000 large: to INR 3,000.
These activities have been supported with n We operate eight hospitals across the Group, providing water harvesting exercises for irrigation like building health care to 750,000 people.
structures, drip irrigation, deepening of wells and pedals n Outreach services through Mobile Health Units and pumps and intensive animal husbandry camps in camps to over 1 million people.
conjunction with the District Veterinary Services, n Our outreach services are further strengthened with immunising over 40,000 animals.
grass root linkages in the form of Swasth Mitras who are n A clear focus on social forestry saw us planting over community volunteers trained in first aid to provide 270,000 trees of different varieties.
immediate relief to the communities.
n O ne million Jatropha Curcas, a major source of bio-diesel n A Trauma Center with ICU facilities for emergencies set were planted at Korba, Mainpat and Kawardha by BALCO up at BALCO.
in partnership with the District Forest Department and n We support a 41 bedded cardiac center at Udaipur.
In conjunction with the n Sanitation 1,000 low cost toilets were constructed in forest department usufruct right to harvest fruits seeds 13 villages in Korba at BALCO.
has been vested with the villagers along with maintaining n Potable water to 78 villages through pipelines, hand the plantations.
n E nergy is not easily available in remote locations.
Along n At HZL in partnership with the Government of Rajasthan with Chhattisgarh Renewable Energy Development and Naandi Foundation we run a mid-day meal Authority CREDA we installed 60 biogas plants as an programme feeding over 150,000 primary school children alternate source of energy at BALCO.
This has eased the daily through six centralised hi-tech kitchens.
life of women by making cooking smoke free, has helped n Our annual Roll Back Malaria programme reached out to ensure less felling of trees for fuel, better animal care as over 37,000 households, helping bring the incidence of cow dung is the raw material for the biogas plants and malaria to 20 per 1,000 as compared to the national 24x7 availability of electricity.
Our interventions in HIV AIDS awareness and prevention extend both to employees and Impact the community.
Free ARV was provided to all who We compliment our own ongoing internal assessment with identified positive, with the uptake for Voluntary external audits.
This year three of our Group companies Counseling and Testing VCT going up by around 30% were externally audited.
HZL engaged Operation Research this year.
Core parameter LA8 as per GR1 G3 guidelines.
Group, Delhi, SIIL Loyola College, Chennai and BALCO the Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur to conduct these A Better Tomorrow assessments.
The underlying observation of all three The focus on sustainable livelihood has been farming and reviews was that our strength lay in developing the non-farming empowering the social fabric of the villages: capabilities of the communities which confirm the n Under the non-farming sector we have adopted the micro communitys potential to identify, create and make the most enterprise route with the objective of building capacities of opportunities for themselves.
They also recommended of the women to supplement their family income.
We work consolidation of our current efforts in our present with 550 Self Help Groups SHGs with over 8,000 women geographies and increased outreach.
Outcomes and members engaged in some form of income generation impacts of our intervention Core parameter SO1 as enterprises like prawn pickle, ornamental fish breeding, per GR1 G3 guidelines : block printing, poultry rearing, leaf bowl making and a S trategic focus on 150 villages with: others earning INR 2,500 per month.
n L iteracy and education initiatives catering to 10,000 n 84 Vision Entrepreneurs five address presbyopia, an age children and adult illiterates.
related up close vision problem through SCOJO n H ealth care services being provided to 1,000,000 Foundations micro franchise model.
These VEs as the populace.
name suggest address the health issue of up close vision n V eterinary services extended to over 40,000 cattle.
at the same time earn a livelihood through the remedy of n 1, 100 acres of land brought under cultivation through spectacles which can be medically sold over the counter.
n HZL trained over 400 youths in collaboration with the n H alf a million vocational training hours invested for District Industries Department, District Administration, 10,000 women and youth.
District Employment Exchange and Sankalp, a local NGO n 1 1,000 families brought above poverty line.
50% of the youths have been gainfully b 550 empowered and self reliant Self Help Groups linked to engaged within a month of finishing the training.
n At Korba, BALCO supported 80 youths to set up 20 brick c 48 regional, national and international NGO partners.
units using fly ash a waste from the plant productivity.
d License to operate with an enhanced equity across our We sourced the technology for them from Technology and stakeholder community.
Action for Rural Advancement TARA, linked them with e Members of the Indian Business Alliance for Tuberculosis banks for loans, provided free fly ash and formed market and BALCO, MALCO and HZL signatories of the UN Global linkages to ensure sustainability.
n 66 local youths at VAL have been taught basic literacy skills, technical training and a module on soft skills in Our main focus has been and will continue to be creating three batches.
The first batch have been recruited as value and sustainability in all areas of our operations.
While we feel some satisfaction from the progress made, we n Our agriculture project has helped optimise land and acknowledge that our work and our influence must continue water resources, revitalised farming through to grow.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 41 Awards and Recognitions Safety CASE STUDy INSPIRATIONAL WOMEN n 4-star rating by British Safety Council, UK for Health & ThE Shg MODEL Safety Performance HZLRAM.
n International Safety Award by British Safety Council, UK HZLDebari.
550 women SHGs in partnership with local NGOs n RoSPA Gold award for Prevention of Accidents, by Royal having a cumulative corpus base of INR 5.6 million Society for Prevention of Accidents UK HZLDebari.
Each woman and each group n National Safety award by Directorate General of Factory tell a thousand stories and more.
Located diversely the Advisory Services and LLabor Institute BALCO.
common thread is the will to make a difference to n Greentech Safety award SIIL, BALCO, HZLDZS and CLZS.
n First in mines safety week conducted by Director General Mines Safety HZLRAM.
n State Safety Award by Inspectorate of Factories MALCO.
Environment n Golden Peacock award for Corporate Governance & Innovation MALCO.
n Gem Granite Environment Excellence Award in Mine Environment by FIMI HZLRAM.
n National Energy Conservation Award by Ministry of Power, Govt.
n Golden Peacock Environment Management Award HZLVizag and Commendation Certificate BALCO.
n Water Efficient Unit Award by Confederation of Indian Industries II MALCO.
n Excellent Energy Efficient Unit award by CII SIIL.
n Greentech Environment Management award SIIL, BALCO, HZLZM, RAM, CLZS and VZS.
Rural Women Generic Profile n Domestic labour not considered as productive CSR n Low involvement in decision making n TERI Corporate Social Responsibility Award for the year n Domestic violence 2007 in recognition of Corporate Leadership for Good nLow literacy levels Corporate Citizenship & Sustainable initiatives to HZL.
n FICCI, SEDF Socio Economic Development Foundation Volume Speaks at SIIL Corporate Social Responsibility Commendation Award Along with six local NGOs and other agencies at SIIL, for the year 2006 to HZL.
we transformed the lives of 4,100 women in 275 groups n Sulochana Harijan, a SHG member at VAL, received with with a cumulative saving base of INR 3.7 million.
the Best SHG Award from Navin Pattnaik, Chief A 14 member group Tamira Sangamam managed a Minister of Orissa.
The award was organised by Tribal loan of INR 1.5 lakhs to run a canteen at the police Development Task Force, Orissa.
superintendents office at Tuticurin district with n BALCO and three Local Panchayats selected for support from Chevaliar Roche Society.
Presidents Nirmal Gram Award 2006 for collaborative Sanitation Project in Korba by the Ministry of Rural Managing the Business of Phenyl Development, Government of India.
The SHG women at VALs Niyamgiri Vedanta Nagar n HZL recognised with the Bhamashah Award 2006 for have redefined the business of phenyl making.
The Chittorgarhs Education Project by the Ministry of phenyl quality has gained ground with demand Education, Government of Rajasthan.
The training by VAL made the job easy.
Procurement of raw materials locally and selling the products at local markets has become the norm.
They also managed a loan of INR 80,000 to expand their business.
At Lanjigarh, Sulochana Majhi, Group President of Budhima Mahila Samiti promoted by VAL was honoured with a state award for best SHG Group in June 2006 by the Honourable Chief Minister of Orissa.
Mr M S Mehta, CEO HZL accepting the FICCI SEDF commendation certificate for HZL efforts on CSR from the Honorable President of India VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 42 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT CASE STUDy VISIONS BEyOND VISION CASE STUDy VEDANTA SUPPORTS ThE hABITAT FOR hUMANITy INDIABUILDS CAMPAIgN Vedanta collaborated with us to implement a replicable, scalable, micro franchise model for distributing reading glasses to the rural populace.
Micro franchise owners Habitat for Humanity an international non-profit housing popularly known as Vision Entrepreneurs five conduct organisation seeks to eliminate poverty housing and vision screenings within their communities, sell homelessness from the world, and to make decent affordable reading glasses, and refer those who require shelter a matter of action.
advanced eye care to reputable clinics.
Vedanta and the Jimmy Carter Work Project: partners in sustainability Habitat launched an ambitious campaign IndiaBUILDS that aims to provide decent homes Vedanta - Scojo partnership: benefiting livelihood and health for 250,000 of Indias poor, over the next five years.
Vedanta Resources Plc supported Habitat for This project provides improved access to health Humanity, India for the signature event of IndiaBUILDS services and economic development through a the Jimmy Carter Work Project 2006 JCWP.
commercially viable and well developed model.
Initiated in April of 2006, 84 rural women and men President Jimmy Carters involvement with Habitat across Vedanta locations were trained and equipped for Humanity International began in 1984.
The training module on the first two days Rosalyn Carter volunteer a week of their time each deliberated on topics like the anatomy of the eye, year to build homes for the poor and raise awareness refractive errors related to the eye, and the basics of of the critical need for affordable housing.
The JCWP rural sales and marketing.
The third day took the VEs is held at a different location each year, and attracts to the field screening potential customers and selling volunteers from around the world.
The 23rd annual the low cost high quality reading glasses.
JCWP was organised in Lonavala, India between 29th October and 3rd November, to launch the IndiaBUILDS Implemented across all Vedanta companies, other campaign.
This was a blitz build which brought than KCM Vedanta supported each five with a micro together 2500 volunteers from 25 countries, at Patan franchise kit and an initial inventory of glasses.
village, Lonavala, to build 100 houses, along with local families in need of decent and affordable housing.
To date, 6,000 people have been screened, 1,931 pairs sold and additional earnings of INR 1100 added to Vedanta Resources Plc supported this significant event the family kitty.
Premlata Goswami from Kotri, by donating INR 11.3 million through its group company Rajsamand quips, In just nine months, I sold 264 Sterlite Industries Limited, to become a prestigious glasses notching a turnover of INR 43,560 with 13,200 Gold Sponsor for the event.
Besides directly as my profit.
My USP is door step screening free of sponsoring eight houses at the JCWP site, Vedanta cost and instantaneous results.
I feel happy when contributed to the costs of hosting this event and had I see people go back to productive lives in a jiffy at a employees volunteer to build houses at the site.
Going forward, Vedanta is committed to support these For us at Scojo, this partnership has been very endeavours.
This is in continuation of the belief that fulfilling.
The largest partner we have till date with having met one of the basic needs Shelter, families respect to CSR programme.
The passion and support have better opportunities to invest in the education of of the Vedanta team has been key to the success of this their children and health care of the family.
Going forward, now that we have a presence in most of the locations of Vedanta, we are looking at Habitat for Humanity is grateful to Vedanta for their making the VEs independent and also adding more support.
Vedantas involvement demonstrates a clear health-related products to their basket of goods commitment to improving the lives of families in need wherein they would be in a position to increase their of decent housing, and we look forward to receiving earnings further, says Neil Blumenthal, Director of their continued support, in our efforts to combat the Programme, Scojo Foundation, USA.
Jonathan Reckford, Chief Executive Officer of Habitat for Humanity International.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 43 CASE STUDy NURTURINg ThE FUTURE CASE STUDy NURTURINg ThE FUTURE Taking TQM to Schools at SIIL The education initiatives at Vedanta traverse across the Schools were there so were the teachers but where different stages of a persons life cycle from childhood to were the children?
Concerned SIIL approached the youth and adulthood.
issue the Total Quality Management TQM route.
A brain storming session with their employees and a review with stakeholders like children, teachers, Laying Foundations at VAL parents and the government helped identify the root When Panchu my son started school he was a shy, cause and possible solutions.
The concerns were poor weak child one among the 40 at the centre.
Inspite of teaching systems, parental apathy, ignorance about being uneducated myself, I was determined for his career options, and lack of aspiration, adequate growth and progress.
Today three years down the line infrastructure, guidance and support.
The first step they he is the smartest boy in his centre, he sings, dances took towards this was to set up Evening Study Centres and can recognise alphabets and numbers.
I am sure ESC where children could come for guidance and to Panchu will do very well in the future also, endorses read.
Today they conduct 18 ESC across SIIL and MALCO Panchus mother Sukanti Majhi.
The first childcare working closely with over 1,600 students with the centre CCC was opened in Niyamgiri Vedanta Nagar in objective of controlling dropouts by ensuring continuity May 2004, with the objective of overall development of in education, 100% enrolment, and supporting children children in the age group of 3-5 years.
Two of us got on with scholarships.
From Education to Employability is to the bandwagon as teachers.
It was very difficult the focus, paving the way for overall development of the initially to run the centre as the villagers were unaware students.
The teachers selected from the same villages of the importance of education and children were have the advantage of knowing the children and their irregular.
We went house to house talking to parents.
backdrops well in advance thus facilitating the process.
Within a month the children started trickling in.
Two They further classified children in two groups.
Group 1 months down the line we had a house full looking comprised of rank holders where the intervention forward to learning through play and the nutritious strategy was motivation and Group 2 students who had meals served at the centre.
The parents felt confident failed or not fared well and needed special coaching as and especially cherished the moment when the children an intervention.
The common thread of the interventions performed at the annual cultural programme of their was peer pressure and group dynamics.
Today we run 19 CCC in 18 villages with 675 hours that we spent at the centre, the first hour was children enrolled, claims Mina Patro and Tribeni devoted for reading our course books and the second Bhanjadeo, teachers at the centre.
hour for clarifying doubts and group learning.
In the first phase of their TQM approach SIIL addressed three centres and ensured 100% pass percentage in each of these centre, says, 18 years old Shenbagavalli.
I am currently pursuing my 2nd year chemistry in the local college.
I first joined the ESC when I was in class 8.
CASE STUDy NURTURINg ThE FUTURE These centres are a boon.
Their focused way of teaching and coaching has helped me be where I am today.
Now MALCO School a Tower of Strength I volunteer at the ESC as and when I can manage time.
I passed out from MALCO Vidyalay in 1981.
I went on to study medicine inspired by the values instilled in me by my school.
I came back to Mettur to serve the rural populace and joined MALCO in 1995.
Apart from contributing to the overall health of the employees, I also extend my time for the community health projects CASE STUDy NURTURINg ThE FUTURE conducted by MALCO.
My son today is studying in my alma mater.
Setting New Paradigm for Rural Youths at HZL HZL decided to take the innovative and unconventional Started way back in 1969 the school is run by a trust.
route while designing their livelihood project.
They A co-educational school, with classes from LKG to XII, visualised a tribal youth in the world of hospitality 2,800 students, 120 teaching and non-teaching and computer industry.
Along with the District professionals and resources to aid us in our studies.
Administration, Udaipur and NGO Partner-Sankalp It is one of the best schools in the district.
I am proud they conducted a three month residential training for that the school still maintains the same values which rural unemployed youths challenging the conventional.
An all-round achiever, be it in studies, 187 youths trained in sales and marketing, hospitality sports, culture our students compete at state, national management and computer applications coupled with and international platforms.
The school has been the modules on personality development and spoken recipient of the Chief Ministers Raj TV, Mudalvan English.
The results are unbelievable and worth Award for four consecutive years, for securing the replicating.
The comprehensive need based training first position in the matriculation examinations in ensured 100% placement within a month of Salem district.
My school will continue to be a completion remarks Shikhar Agarwal, District tower of strength for generations to come Collector, Udaipur.
voices an emotional Dr. Manoj Krishnan, Medical Officer, MALCO.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 44 CASE STUDy DEVELOPMENTS AT LANJIgARh Rehabilitation projects provide a range of services for displaced families Now I feel optimistic about my childs future at building, creating platforms of communication and Lanjigarh says Baddangaria Majhi.
We have been focused, persistent and I live a safer and easier life after settling at Niyamgiri unrelenting.
I am 50 years old and work in the dispensary at the NVN as we call it and my two sons I have been personally involved in many of the work with Vedanta.
We have all the facilities be it community development initiatives of Vedanta Alumina electricity, water, hospital, school or roads at NVN.
Their community development recollects Baddangaria Majhi fondly.
The face of activities like health programmes, water and sanitation Lanjigarh has changed so rapidly in the last 3 years.
All programmes, and education initiatives in the these years we lived in abject poverty with no horizon in rehabilitation colony of the displaced families are sight.
I was a permanent resident of Kinari village with 2 commendable.
It is worth appreciating that the 106 acres of agriculture land.
Life was very difficult in the displaced families have been provided with the basic absence of proper food, medical and education facilities.
amenities like sanitized houses, potable water facilities, We were totally dependent on rain God for agriculture school, market complex, a dispensary in the colony and and I hardly cultivated 20 quintals of paddy in a year.
employment for one member from each household.
There were no proper roads, drains and mobility was Vedanta not only rehabilitated the families in line with severely restricted during rainy season.
Life has the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy of the changed after Vedanta Alumina Limited came in our area Government of Orissa, but went beyond to ensure their opening avenues for direct and indirect employment.
All the displaced families invested 2 3rd I have a decent house, a good rehabilitation package, of their money in post office savings ensuring a steady investment counsel and a job.
I have bought LIC policies source of income for themselves.
Today we see a for myself and my sons and a motorcycle.
I feel qualitative improvement in the living standard of the optimistic about my childrens future.
people, not only is there a consistent source of income for them, but there is a marked difference in their From a stranger to a partner is the path traversed by attitudes.
We have children in the childcare centre and Vedanta at Lanjigarh.
The journey so far has been EGS schools now instead of in the forest collecting challenging, fulfilling and impactful.
From garnering firewood and grazing the cattle.
I am told that the local commune support, to building strategic rehabilitation colony at Jharsuguda is nearly ready relationships with the community, government and and the company has initiated community based projects NGOs, to forming village development committees, on similar lines for them too.
I wish them the very best SHGs, youth clubs, reaching out with our Mobile Health for their commitment to development, Gangadhar Patra Units, creating direct and indirect opportunities for I.
A. S., Block Development Officer, Lanjigarh Block, livelihood, linking the communities to government Biswanathpur, Kalahandi Orissa.
schemes, providing avenues of education and capacity VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 45 CASE STUDy CARE AND BEyOND A CALL TO ACTION BALCO in conjunction with the Public Health Department developed 1,000 low cost toilets across 11 villages in Korba.
The uniqueness of the project is the complete community participation in construction of the toilets and the Sanitation committees advocacy campaign towards appropriate usage of toilets at household levels.
This Joint venture between BALCO and Three Panchayats has been honoured with the President of Indias Nirmal Gram Award 2006.
Konkola Copper Mines Plc KCM provides secondary limbs.
The KCM Rollback malaria programme prevents and tertiary health care to employees, their dependents and treats malaria amongst employees and the and the general public through two hospitals namely: community.
Fostering community participation and Konkola Mine Hospital in Chililabombwe and Nchanga promoting clean surroundings KCM introduced the South Hospital.
The 398-staffed hospitals are referrals Garden and House Competition.
for the seven community clinics in Chililabombwe and Chingola with a bed capacity of 220 collectively.
The The malaria incident rate has reduced to less than 20 hospital services about 400,000 people from cases per 1000 population.
The Government of Zambia Chililabombwe, Chingola and Lusaka.
has adopted the KCM model for malaria eradication.
Both hospitals are well equipped offering specialty The KCM HIV AIDS policy protects the confidentiality of treatments.
The quality of health care at the hospitals an employees HIV status, employees rights to work and ranks over 85%.
KCM hospitals have an infant mortality benefits despite their status, prohibits discrimination rate IMR of 62 1000 live births and under-5 mortality against HIV positive employees and provides for rate U5IMR of 106 1000 live births significantly lower education and voluntary counselling and testing VCT.
than the national figures of 112 1000 and 202 1000 Efforts of peer educators and counsellors in workplace respectively.
Ours are the only private hospitals to be and community sensitisation have led to increased VCT accredited by the Medical Council of Zambia to contribute uptake.
Last year we introduced the provision of free National Manpower Capacity Building and has been ARVs to employees and their dependents.
We also training interns from the University of Zambias School implement the Prevention of Mother to Child of Medicine since 2005.
Transmission of HIV PMTCT programme.
To date more than 300 women have been enrolled in this programme.
KCM also implements community health programmes in its areas of operation.
In 2006, KCM held the first ever There is so much more to be done, this is just a small artificial limbs fitment camp through Jaipur Foot of India.
step in the right direction.
109 people across Zambia were fitted with artificial CASE STUDy PROgRESS A REPORT CARD ON ThE MIDDAy MEAL PROgRAMME AT hZL The Public Private Partnership between the State Government of Rajasthan, Naandi Foundation and Hindustan Zinc has made progress towards setting up six hi-tech kitchens in three districts of Chittorgarh, Bhilwara and Udaipur, providing nutritious meals to 1.5 lakh children and beyond in more than 1,500 schools of these districts everyday, with an investment of INR 36 million.
We commissioned two kitchens in 2006.
The remaining four shall be commissioned by the end of the current financial year.
Chittorgarh would become the only district in the entire national nutritional standards for the targeted age group.
country to be covered comprehensively under this project.
Inspired by the kitchen during one of their visits, Until now, hi-tech kitchens mostly catered to urban and Basantilals school children penned this poem.
semi urban areas, but these four kitchens of Chittorgarh district would cater to remote rural pockets.
We thank Hi-Tech Kitchen ka khana muh mein paani laya, Main Anil Agarwal, Group Chairman-Vedanta Resources for his school mein samay per aaya Ab swadist khana milta hai, support and shared vision, Sudhans Pant IAS, Mid Day padhne mein bhi man lagta hai, Zinc walon ki yeh anokhi Meal Director, Rajasthan.
den, hum bachchon ke man ko bhaata hai.
A recent study by World Bank at Chittorgarh assessing the The meals from the hi-tech kitchen are sumptuous.
Now Mid Day Meal scheme showed enrolment in schools up by we reach school on time.
We enjoy our meals and study 64% and an increase for girls of 58% endorsing the critical hard too.
This novel gift from Zinc has won our hearts.
role of a nutritious meal as a key factor to continuity in education.
Basantilal Pancholi, Head Master, Det Middle The responsibility to provide quality meals on time in the School, Chittorgarh.
endorses The Gangrar kitchen remotest schools keeps us and our partners on our toes.
helped us focus on academics and presented a challenge We are convinced that this tripartite social investment will to improve our annual school results.
I was pleasantly be one of the prime factors contributing to education.
surprised to know from Naandi Foundation that the nutritional value of 45kcal per meal is almost double the VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 46 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT CASE STUDy A DIFFERENT FUTURE BAREFOOT AgRICULTURIST MADE ThE DIFFERENCE Productive livelihood is one of our primary Sustainable Development AISD from Ranchi for development goals both in farm and non-farm based technical inputs, says Jayamal Gouda, of Sindhbahl sectors.
For various reasons like erratic rainfall, mono village, a landless agriculture labourer.
I had neither cropping, lack of proper knowledge and irrigation land of my own, nor money to invest nor the expertise, facilities, farming is perceived to be less remunerative.
VAL organised all three and encouraged me to take on At HZL, BALCO and VAL we planned agriculture projects the project.
In the first phase 51 of us agreed to cultivate suited to the local topography to both improve the vegetables on 70 acres of land from five villages.
The agricultural produce and ensure optimal utility of AISD and VAL team trained us on all aspects of farming water and land.
and helped us prepare the right crop plan for our field.
At the end of the first phase on an average we earned INR 2,800 per month.
Enthused by the results, the farmers, VAL and AISD collectively planned on expanding the area of cultivation.
The second phase had 294 acres of land, 252 farmers and 17 villages.
Twenty three farmer SHGs were formed and market linkages and irrigation channels identified.
I earned INR 12,250 in just four months by investing only INR 3,000 in the project which was exclusive of the land cost.
I now earn INR 3,000 a month just by growing vegetables in my field.
I never thought this was possible at Lanjigarh.
A need assessment by BALCO discovered availability of abundant resources for cash crops like perennial source for irrigation, land and a market to cater too at Korba.
We named the project Kadambari.
Our interventions started with dialogues and formation of Village Development Committees.
The model plot in village At Rajasthan, the problem was twofold: a lack of optimal Dondro was developed to demonstrate cash crop utilization of available water and b predominant use farming.
As a pilot, the BALCO team insisted that we of local seeds lowering the yield factor by 30% coupled grow vegetables on small chunks of land along with with an overdose of fertilisers.
A cadre of seven barefoot paddy.
Their objective was three fold to help us change agricultural specialists trained by Krishi Vigyan Kendra the cropping pattern to cash crop, sensitise us on the and HZL on vermicompost, micro irrigation and certified benefits of diversified cropping and ensure that farming seed identification started a mass campaign in became a sustainable source of livelihood all year round the villages to orient farmers on water and soil for us.
Along with the District Horticulture Department management.
135 farmers with a cumulative holding of they provided intensive training to 410 farmers on 275 acres from seven villages agreed to participate on an different aspects of farming.
Irrigation schemes were experimental basis.
We were trained on vermicompost, initiated for the five acres of land for fruit cultivation and soil and seed management.
Certified seeds of wheat 59 acres for vegetable and floriculture.
Vermicompost were procured from the Rajasthan Seeds Corporation along with the additionally slurry from the 50 Bio Gas Ltd at a subsidised price.
Micro irrigation seemed to be plant served as a rich source of manure.
Benefits from the best bet in the current scenario of sporadic rainfall cash crops came speedy.
A farmer who through paddy and irregular electricity.
With no electricity required, cultivation earned about INR 4,500 per acre now earned drip irrigation was the choicest solution, with some of INR 17, 000 per acre with vegetable and floriculture, says us investing in DG sets and sprinklers for optimal use Harihar Singh Kawar, 51.
I own five acres of land and of water.
Taking up cash crops along with food crops would take one paddy crop during the year.
My fields did doubled our incomes.
Girdhari from Ganeshpura not produce enough to sustain my family for the entire produced 12 quintals of wheat against the previous year.
This year I had a bumper crop of vegetables, with a years yield of eight.
In the total agricultural land of 275 turnover of INR 14,000. acres under the Project, 5,800 quintals of wheat was produced by 98 farmers collectively.
Not only this, 50% Across Vedantas operations we motivated over 1,300 of the farmers took double crops with mixed cropping farmers to till 1,100 acres of land with vegetable and patterns in a single calendar year.
The drip system cash crops to earn a steady income of INR 3,000 plus.
helped us to cultivate vegetables apart from cash crops and utilise water effectively reminisces Nand Giri Goswami of Ruppura village.
VAL conceived Sashya Shilpa Abhiyan, to enhance our incomes through commercial production of vegetables year round.
They partnered with the Asian Institute for VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 47 CASE STUDy SUSTAINABLE VILLAgES FUELINg gROWTh We Walked the Talk at Rajpura Ka Kheda Winds of Change at Dondro In 2003, two people from Zincs social wing were BALCOs first step here was to map local resources and conducting a village survey with the women of our formulate interventions with the villagers.
Looking at Bherula earnestly dialogue, we were became a neutral platform to discuss our development.
convinced about the development of our village.
A tripartite participatory approach involving the Formation of the Village Development Committee VDC community, panchayat and BALCO was taken, says Jaipal and a three year rolling plan, were the next steps Singh, Sarpanch Dondro.
We were surprised to discover aplenty resources in our Ramesh shares, I was a landless labourer, my lack of village, says Ghurau Yadav.
A model farming plot to skill was a big hindrance.
I joined the group of 30 being experiment with alternate farming was developed, trained by Zinc on the Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana.
I training programmes were conducted and high yield set up a readymade garment shop with a INR 40,000 loan vegetable seeds provided.
To source water for irrigation, from the bank.
The village movement gained further pedal pumps and other sources were institutionalised.
momentum with vocational trainings for youth and the SHGs, reaching out to over 60 families continues I can now keep a tab of my money thanks to the evening Chatar Singh.
non formal adult education classes, recollects, Phool Bai.
I joined the SHG and decided to make papads.
I now Our semi-arid region needed concrete steps for water contribute INR 1,500 per month for my family.
Along with Jain irrigation, Zinc provided us have organsied us into entrepreneurs, comments the platform to choose from the basket of tools for micro Laxmi Bai.
irrigation like drip sprinkler systems.
To tap bio mass resources we paid more attention to our Empowering us to take onus for the development of our cattle.
The bio gas generated is utilised for cooking and village, we along with Zinc approached the District Rural as an alternate source of electricity.
Slurry, the by Development Agency for implementing the Swajal Dhara product from bio gas enriched my fields, says Hira scheme for safe drinking water and the Apna Gaon Apna Bai.
I earlier walked 4 km to fetch firewood.
With bio gas Kaam, for roads in our village.
I cook food on smokeless burners without tears.
The pre-school centres have reduced the burden of the The installation of taps and water tanks in the school older siblings resulting in improved enrolment and premise by BALCO helped curb the incidence of water retention at the primary school level.
borne diseases, comments Sani Singhs father.
The village water committee runs and maintains the facility.
Chatar Singh proudly states, we are now empowered Additionally each house in our village has toilets as part with physical infrastructures, skills and capacities, our of Nirmal Gram.
children are in schools, we have roads, electricity and water for drinking and agriculture, 69% of the families Kewal Singh cannot forget the day his son injured his earn INR 3,500 and more per month.
The profuse bleeding aggravated the condition.
village a model one in a way, though we still have a long Surendra Kawar, the village Swasthya Mitra immediately way to go with sanitation as our next priority.
rendered first aid and stopped the bleeding and referred us for further treatment to BALCOs hospital.
Once staring at the abyss of destitution, we have worked a minor miracle with facilitation from BALCO to put ourselves firmly on the road to sustained well-being, recounts Jaipal Singh, Sarpanch.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 48 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT Health, Safety And Environment Policy Social Policy At Vedanta Resources plc, we believe in sustainable At Vedanta Resources plc, we believe in sustainable development and are committed to effective management development and are committed to raising the quality of life of health, safety, environment and community development and social well-being of communities where we operate.
as an integral part of our business.
Accordingly, we will strive to: Towards this, we will be guided by following: Develop, implement and maintain Health, Safety and Our community development initiatives will be prioritised Environment HSE management systems aligned with our based on local needs.
Broad areas of focus will be: commitments and beliefs and consistent with world-class Social Investment Health, Education and Livelihood.
Bio Investment Water harvesting, agriculture and social forestry.
Comply with applicable HSE regulations in all our activities, Environment conservation.
thereby providing a safe and healthy work environment.
All operating locations will incorporate CSR activities as an Seek continual improvements through setting and integral part of their business plan and have an appropriate reviewing targets, assessing and reporting HSE organisation to implement the same.
performance, using appropriate best available practices and providing all employees with HSE training.
We will be open to working with like minded associates, Government bodies and other volunteer organisation in Implement regular health surveillance and risk-based pursuit of our mission.
We will measure and report progress as per social Conserve natural resources, raw materials, water and accounting systems and encourage third party reviews for energy by process improvements, recycling and reducing effective delivery and measurable impact.
We will regularly communicate with all our stakeholders on Work with communities to contribute to their development.
the progress and performance on social management.
Encourage contractors and suppliers to adopt principles KK Kaura and practices adopted by us.
Chief Executive Officer Communicate with all our stakeholders on the progress 24 October 2005 and performance of HSE management.
This Health, Safety and Environment Policy was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 June 2005.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
