54 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate and Social Responsibility Although the majority of our employees work in our Aberdeen head Our aim is to cause no harm to people office or our Dutch office in Hoofddorp, our operations involve many or the environment.
We consider HSE people working offshore on behalf of Venture on our production management as an integral part of our installations and on our contracted drilling rigs.
business and our duty as a corporate citizen.
We believe that the discipline We include all of our employees and contractors in our measurement of lost time injury frequency rates LTIFR.
In 2007 nearly 1.5 million needed and the motivation that inevitably man-hours were worked across our licence blocks with a LTIFR of 1.3 results from achieving and maintaining 2006: 0.8.
The industry average is around 3.5.
During 2007 there were high HSE standards will contribute only two minor finger injuries, one on our Markham J6A platform and directly to the commercial success of one on a contracted drilling rig.
Managing Our Environmental Impact Jon Murphy We work hard to mitigate any negative effects that our operations may have on the environment, balancing the challenges of a growing Our Approach business, increasing regulatory pressures and a keen desire to minimise Our approach to corporate social responsibilities reflects our culture any impact our activities have upon the environment.
We constantly direct, disciplined and commercially focused.
We recognise that we review the ramifications of meeting regulatory changes.
All our projects have an impact on our environment, on the working lives of our people are subjected to a rigorous environmental assessment and all applications and on our local communities.
Equally important, the way in which we to the Regulator made in 2007 were approved.
conduct our business has a direct impact on our reputation and our licence to operate.
Emissions to air and discharges to sea are all now strictly regulated through detailed permits and allowances.
As these levels reduce and We believe in working closely with other members of our industry to our business expands, we anticipate that to allow compliance with these build a pragmatic legislative framework.
Jon Murphy is a Board member permits we will increasingly be purchasers in the various trading schemes.
of Oil and Gas UK, the organisation that represents the UK offshore oil and gas industry to government and regulatory bodies.
Jon is also the Performance Board Director with responsibility for Health, Safety and the Environment.
Managing our environmental performance in order to deliver continuous Venture is a leading member of the Southern North Sea Environmental improvement is key to the organisation.
Communicating our performance Forum, an informal network that Venture established and which enables to key stakeholders is also an essential component of a fully functioning its 23 members to share information on environmental studies and Environmental Management System EMS.
In the UK the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform In Holland, Hans Versteeg Operations Director represented Venture DBERR requires that all operators have an EMS that is accredited to Production Nederland BV on, and was Vice-Chairman of the Executive ISO 14001 or registered to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme EMAS, Committee of, NOGEPA, the organisation that represents the oil and gas or which has been externally verified as meeting the requirements of companies operating in the Netherlands.
Furthermore, all operators must produce an annual statement by 1 June each year which includes a description As a successful oil and gas production business Venture creates jobs, of the operators environmental policy, goals, objectives and targets.
designs and implements new technology, returns profits to shareholders The report, which must be available to the public, will also include a and through employment, expenditure in the community and taxation summary of performance in relation to the aforementioned policy, contributes to the economic health of the nation.
Venture adapts to goals, objectives and targets.
Ventures EMS was externally verified in change whilst investing for the long term and recognises the need to 2006 and the 2007 report to DBERR will be made before the middle of 2008. extract oil and gas in the safest and most environmentally responsible and efficient way.
We recognise that there are a variety of perspectives The Companys Dutch operations are subject to agreements made under existing with regard to our industry and we encourage regular the Dutch environmental covenant.
This lays down specific environmental engagement with a broad range of stakeholders.
tasks and aims for the Dutch oil and gas industry as a whole.
In response to the requirements of the covenant, the Company produces an annual Keeping Our People Safe environmental plan which summarises its performance against these Our integrated Health, Safety and Environmental policy is approved at objectives.
This annual plan is published in May.
Board level and is signed by both Mike Wagstaff, Chief Executive and Jon Murphy, Chief Operating Officer.
The Board regularly challenge the policy In addition, existing regulations concerning oil in produced water and and require performance reports and evidence to demonstrate that we atmospheric emissions requires discharge and emission data for the are keeping people safe and managing environmental issues responsibly.
previous calendar year to be verified by an accredited auditor by the The policy is the foundation of our HSE management system, underpinning end of the first quarter.
This exercise ensures that the data submitted our continuous improvement process and driving our targets.
to various trading schemes is accurate.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 With these dates in mind, a report of Ventures corporate environmental Getting Involved performance will therefore be made available in May 2008, when it will be Five teams some 20 people entered the gruelling Caledonian posted for viewing on the Company website www.
Challenge, walking 54 miles within 24 hours from Fort William to Loch Lomond and raising in the region of 40,000 for charity.
Notwithstanding the above, some of the key issues in 2007 are summarised below: Over a third of our Aberdeen based staff competed against 40 other We experienced one major oil spill in April following an incident local companies in a Corporate Decathlon ten events spread over the during a tanker loading process in the Kittiwake field.
The incident is year including a Highland Games finale raising funds for the Scottish currently under review by the regulator.
We made our first submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2007 and in 2008 we will be implementing our Carbon Management Strategy.
We also supported an innovative funding scheme put forward by one of The HSE management system has been extensively revised during our key contractors for four of its sites.
Performance against HSE targets the year to accommodate our new Dutch operation, acquired from gave the opportunity to earn money for local charitable causes chosen CH4 last year.
Over 12,000 has been awarded so far to nine local schools A number of internal briefing sessions have been held this year as and clubs and three special causes.
part of an ongoing awareness programme to ensure that staff are kept up to date with legislative changes, the latest EU directives, changes in Government policy and best practice initiatives.
People Maintaining a strong Company culture and clear values is particularly important for a fast-growing organisation like Venture that operates in a tight labour market.
Open consultations on how our core values people, communication, action are operating in practice, take place periodically and help identify any changes required in working conditions.
Town Hall or open forum meetings, attended by everyone in the Company and hosted by the Chief Executive, are used to communicate progress, discuss issues and talk about future plans.
Community We believe our employees are our strongest link with our local communities.
It is through encouraging our employees voluntary efforts that we will support those communities.
In May we put in place a formal social investment policy that promotes employee involvement in community initiatives, backed by an Employee Matched Funding Scheme where Venture will match the money raised on approved projects.
