CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility Statement Policy The Cookson Code requires all employees, officers and Cookson recognises that its operations impact a wide Directors to have a duty of loyalty to the Group.
Individuals community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, may not use their positions to profit themselves or others at customers, business associates and local communities and the expense of the Group.
Personal interests that do, may or that appropriate attention to the fulfilment of its corporate might appear to conflict with Group interests or improperly responsibilities can enhance overall performance.
In influence the performance of an individuals duties must be structuring its approach to the various aspects of corporate avoided at all times.
social responsibility, the Company takes account of guidelines Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever and statements issued by stakeholder representatives and it conducts business.
The Cookson Code requires employees other regulatory bodies from around the world.
to observe all national and local laws and never seek to gain Social, environmental and ethical matters are reviewed any advantage through the inappropriate use of payments, by the Board, particularly as regards the impact such business courtesies or other inducements.
Bribery is strictly matters may have on the Groups management of risk and prohibited.
Group businesses must respect and take into the internal control systems in place for addressing any account regional and local concerns, customs and traditions.
Helpline Code of Conduct Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business Concern The Company has a Code of Conduct Cookson Code, Helpline telephone and email facility.
This is operated by a which has been distributed throughout the Group in 12 professional, external provider of employee support, languages and by which all its businesses are required to counselling and business concern services, which provides operate.
The Cookson Code emphasises the Companys Cooksons employees and business associates worldwide commitment to compliance with the highest standards with an independent and confidential service through which of legal and ethical behaviour.
The Cookson Code is to register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular reproduced in full on the Companys website, practices they perceive in Cooksons workplace.
express permission of the caller or email correspondent, the As stated in the Cookson Code, the primary goal of service provider reports any matters raised to a designated Cookson is the protection and advancement of the interests team at Cooksons Head Office for investigation.
of investors by providing attractive returns on a long-term basis.
In striving to achieve this goal, management must Health, Safety and Environmental conduct its business in a responsible manner, while engaging in careful risk-taking as an essential ingredient of Statement business success.
The Cookson Code requires that Policy particular care be given to the preservation and protection Cookson has a Health, Safety and Environment HS&E of Group assets by making prudent and effective use of Policy based on the principle of operating in a manner that resources.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as preserves health, safety and a sound environment.
For being essential to the attainment of Group goals, which Cookson companies worldwide, the minimum acceptable means listening carefully to customers product and service standard is to meet their legal HS&E obligations, however, requirements and maintaining a reputation for integrity in the aim is to improve continually.
Cookson believes that all business and other dealings.
good HS&E performance is an integral part of effective and The Group can only achieve its goals through the efforts profitable business management.
The policy, which is of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction reviewed regularly, is available in full on the Companys requires working environments that motivate employees to website, www.
be productive and innovative, and which provide opportunities for employee training and development to Management systems maximise personal potential and develop careers within the The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for HS&E policy Group.
Cookson believes that wherever in the world they and for monitoring its implementation, while executives and work employees have the right to be treated in good faith line managers are directly responsible for HS&E matters in and on the basis of respect for the dignity of the individual.
the operations under their control.
A reporting system is in The Cookson Code requires all Group companies to place to collect, collate and report on key performance ensure that recruitment, training, promotion, career indicators.
Advice and support is available from the development, termination and similar employment-related corporate HS&E function, led by the Group Head of HS&E issues are based on individual ability, achievement, who reports on these matters to the Board.
experience and conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
Cookson Group plc 28 Annual Report 2007 OUR BUSINESS Electricity KWH, millions Performance REACH Since 2004, Cookson has operated a programme aimed at The European regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, reducing energy use and the associated emissions of Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH will carbon dioxide CO, the principal greenhouse gas.
The have significant implications for Cookson businesses.
2 programme trains employees to understand energy use and REACH requires the registration of some 30,000 chemicals conservation principles and introduces energy audits to as it shifts the burden of proving chemical safety to assist high-use sites in identifying and implementing industry, affecting the availability, cost and conditions of conservation measures.
During 2007, Cookson conducted use of many substances.
Cooksons chemical manufacturing energy audits and prepared energy-use reduction plans at businesses are taking steps to ensure that the necessary 19 facilities, typically identifying cost-effective opportunities personnel understand the obligations under REACH and to reduce site energy by between 5% and 10%.
In early have the systems in place to meet them.
2007, the Group established a target to reduce normalised energy use by 9% within 3 years, further demonstrating Workplace Cooksons commitment to reduced energy use and CO Cooksons success depends on retaining the commitment of 2 emissions.
Many sites that have had energy audits and have the people who work within it.
The Group strives to ensure implemented the core recommendations in 2006 or early that employees have a safe environment in which to work 2007 are already showing energy reductions approaching and that employment practices are fair and equitable.
the 9% target, i. e. significantly ahead of plan.
During 2007, several additional Cookson locations Safety achieved certification to ISO 14001, the international Cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illness.
standard for environmental management systems, bringing To achieve this, a worldwide initiative has been implemented the Group total to 44.
Likewise, the number of locations to improve safety performance, with a particular focus on certified to OHSAS 18001, the standard for health and safety applying sound risk assessments and ergonomic principles.
The programme includes minimum standards of performance, A number of Cookson companies in the US have been targeted assistance to higher risk sites and a variety of named as potentially responsible parties under the training and awareness activities.
From 2002 to 2007, the Superfund law for wastes disposed of at sites owned by rate of recordable injuries and illness improved by 58%, and third parties.
Although likely Group costs depend on many the rate of injuries and illness resulting in absence from factors, the few cases that remain active are expected to be work improved by 55%.
To ensure continued progress, the settled within the amounts already provided.
Group set, in early 2007, a target of a further reduction in Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have injury and illness rates of 30% by the end of 2009.
Progress potential environmental liabilities because of past operations was mixed in 2007: whilst the recordable injury rate at their current or former sites.
Where remediation is improved by approximately 7%, the rate of days away required, Cookson environmental managers and external injuries worsened by approximately 11%.
Renewed efforts specialists work with government authorities to ensure that during the year resulted in steady improvement in the remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
During 2007, Cookson continued to focus on the Compliance elimination of work-related injuries through better A small number of enforcement notices were issued to application of ergonomic principles.
The last five years have Cookson companies in 2007, including several that assessed seen extensive ergonomic training throughout the Group minor penalties.
One civil court action for alleged nonand the establishment of ergonomic teams at a number of compliance with waste management requirements facilities, leading to a significant improvement in their associated with managing an inactive site was filed against performance.
Additional information on HS&E matters can a Cookson company in 2006.
The company expects to settle be found on the Groups website.
Energy consumption Facilities certified Rate of injuries & manufacturing operations to ISO 14001 illness that resulted in absence from work per 100 employees 45 450 44 2.5 40 400 42 42 2.4 36 1.9 35 350 27 1.5 1.4 30 300 25 250 20 200 03 04 05 06 07 03040506 07 03040506 07 Electricity use note: six previously certified Gas use facilities were sold in 2007 Cookson Group plc 29 Annual Report 2007 Gas Therms, millions
