Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Environmental impacts per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold 2004 2005 2006 2007 VICTREX PEEK sales volume tonnes 1,802 1,972 2,339 2,508 Energy use GJ 212 206 181 168 3 Water use m 197 224 210 189 CO emissions tonnes equivalent 10.8 10.5 9.4 8.6 2 Hazardous waste post treatment tonnes 4.4 3.0 0.2 0.2 The figures above incorporate pro-forma estimates for certain manufacturing operations relating to BDF production prior to acquisition on 1 April 2005 to ensure the impacts for each year are provided on a consistent basis.
As noted on page 20, the Board considers that the management of Senior executives are responsible for ensuring that the SHE policy is safety, health, environmental, social and ethical matters forms a key implemented in their departments and that all employees have been element of effective corporate governance.
These areas are managed in trained in defined safe working methods as required.
conjunction with all other business risks and are covered by the internal All employees have a responsibility to prevent injury and damage to control systems and procedures outlined on page 22. health and the environment and to contribute to improvements in SHE A review of the Groups policies relating to safety, health, environment, performance through regular communication and consultation.
human resources and business ethics is set out below.
The Groups excellent health and safety performance has continued with only one over-3-day reportable injury, when an operator suffered Safety, Health and Environment back strain.
The Group received the Royal Society for the Prevention The Board believes that all employees should be able to work safely in of Accidents RoSPA Presidents Award in 2007 in recognition of a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities should not harm the sustained occupational health and safety achievement after winning public or the environment.
Everyone in the Group is expected to place ten consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards.
the highest priority on achieving these aims.
Good safety, health and environmental performance go hand in hand with good business Again, there have been no prosecutions, fines or enforcement action performance.
as a result of non-compliance with safety, health or environmental legislation.
These policy objectives are achieved by: identifying safety, health and environmental hazards: We seek to stay well ahead of relevant environmental standards.
assessment of the risks associated with the identified hazards: Our manufacturing plants are regulated by Pollution Prevention and implementation of appropriate control measures, with external Control legislation and, as such, are subject to close monitoring of guidance and advice being sought and used where appropriate: environmental emissions.
During the year there were four notifiable ensuring that all employees are appropriately and properly trained events.
On three occasions, during prescribed routine monitoring and understand what they are required to do: of air emissions at our Rotherham plant, the amount of emission reviewing and learning from our own and other peoples experiences measured oxides of nitrogen or fluoride exceeded agreed limits.
and taking on board new legislation and other requirements and, On one other occasion at our Rotherham plant there was a release ensuring that all employees contribute to improving safety, health of dilute detergent solution to drain during an off-loading operation.
and environmental performance through regular and effective No observable environmental impact resulted from these events.
The principal environmental impacts of the Groups UK operations are The Board has ultimate responsibility for SHE policy and performance set out in the table above.
The environmental impact of our overseas and receives a report on safety, health and environmental issues on a operations is not considered material.
The Production and Technical Director is directly accountable to the Board for SHE performance.
He is responsible for ensuring that adequate arrangements and resources are in place to implement the SHE policy as outlined above and that these measures are effective.
A dedicated SHE department support him in this.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED INSPIRED OUR PEOPLE We recognise our talented and diverse We have a culture of clear workforce as a key business asset.
Our communication, accountability and business success is a reflection of the pro-active employment practices quality and skill of our people.
is committed to seeking out, retaining and developing the highest calibre The Company supports employee employees to maximise business growth share ownership and, where practical, and performance.
offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
We are constantly striving to improve efficiency in all areas of our In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, operations, including energy use and therefore CO emissions, water language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, 2 consumption and quantities of hazardous waste produced.
This is physical and mental ability, thinking style, experience and education.
achieved by implementing many procedures and projects, large and We believe that the wide array of perspectives that result from such small, across the business.
Reductions have been achieved in energy, diversity promotes innovation and business success.
As part of this CO and water usage per tonne of product sold.
This is largely due to policy, Victrex gives due consideration to employment applications from 2 increased production volume and efficiencies together with closure of disabled people consistent with their capabilities and provides every plant that was non-core to the business.
opportunity to employees who become disabled to continue employment with appropriate training and career development.
REACH The Group places considerable emphasis on the involvement of its The REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction employees and has continued its practice of keeping them informed of Chemicals Regulations came into force on 1 June 2007.
Although on matters relating to the performance of the Group or relating directly polymers are outside the scope of the regulations, the Company is to them as employees, either formally through the Staff Committee, working to ensure full REACH compliance for all raw materials and or informally via newsletters and the Group intranet to which all products which do require registration.
We have put in place actions employees worldwide have access.
to pre-register relevant materials to meet the timetable to pre-register between 1 June 2008 and 30 November 2008.
Full implementation of The Company supports employee share ownership and, where the regulations takes place in a phased manner from 1 June 2008 to practical, offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
31 May 2018 and we have a project team in place to manage this As at 30 September 2007, approximately 87% 2006: 76% of process.
We do not anticipate any disruption to the supply of products employees worldwide were participants in employee share schemes, arising from the regulations.
Although we cannot precisely quantify principally as option holders under the Companys employee share the cost of implementing the regulations, we do not expect it to be option schemes.
We also sponsor pension plans for employees material for Victrex.
These comprise defined benefit or defined contribution arrangements, savings schemes and provident funds Employees designed to provide appropriate retirement benefits based on local We recognise our talented and diverse workforce as a key business laws, custom and market practice.
Details of the Groups principal asset.
Our business success is a reflection of the quality and skill of our pension schemes are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
Victrex is committed to seeking out, retaining and developing Largely as a result of the above approach, Victrex has low voluntary the highest calibre employees to maximise business growth and employee turnover, 2.8% in 2007 2006: 5.2%.
Assessment of ongoing training needs comprises a key element of the annual appraisal process.
Business ethics We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a We have a formal global ethics policy which incorporates the Groups commitment to make full use of the talents and resources of all our key principles and standards governing business conduct towards our employees, and to provide a healthy environment which will encourage key stakeholder groups.
We believe that we should treat all of these good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
groups with honesty and integrity.
Our policy is set out below: Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 The Groups headquarters is located INDUSTRY in the UK where its manufacturing DISTRIBUTION facilities are based.
To complement our global sales and technical centres that serve more than 30 countries worldwide we have a dedicated logistics team who maintain the highest commitment to our customers needs.
Our freight partners share our commitment to our customers and ensure an exceptional service.
All activities, including product distribution, are managed with the environment in mind and we continuously work to reduce our impact on the environment by improving the efficiency of our operations.
Our customers We will seek to: We recognise that satisfied customers underpin our future commercial provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all legislative prosperity, and that understanding and meeting their needs is key to requirements and to provide all the necessary training support for our success.
employees to operate safely within it: provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal We will seek to: opportunities for development and career advancement: have our product available to meet our promised delivery schedules be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as any form and deliver them when they are needed: of discrimination, bullying or harassment: continuously improve the quality and performance of our products prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our sites and encourage anyone and services in line with customer needs: with any form of addiction to seek help and, provide prompt technical support for the products that customers be intolerant of any corrupt practices by any level of employee and to have purchased: encourage whistleblowing through our formal procedure if such provide timely, reliable technical advice to customers on new product practices are encountered.
In particular, improper payments are applications: prohibited and no gift, whose value is material and could be collaborate with customers to provide innovative solutions to their interpreted as a form of inducement, should be offered or accepted material requirements and, by any employee.
operate to the highest ethical and business conduct standards.
Our shareholders Our suppliers Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the business and we Our commitment to our customers is underpinned by a strong supply recognise that we have responsibilities towards them as stewards of chain.
We will seek to: We will seek to: maintain appropriate standards of business conduct in our dealings grow our business over time to maximise shareholder value: with our suppliers: communicate in an open and timely manner regarding the encourage suppliers to adopt similar principles and standards of performance, position and prospects of the business and, business conduct to Victrexs own: maintain sound systems of corporate governance to ensure that the where appropriate, collaborate with our suppliers to increase the Company is well directed and managed.
performance, quality and efficiency of the supply chain: adhere to the contract terms agreed with suppliers and, The environment encourage our suppliers to meet Victrexs own safety, health and We recognise that our operations have an impact on the environment, environment standards.
and that we have a responsibility to minimise this.
Our employees We will seek to: We recognise that, whilst being an asset-based business, Victrex relies work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in which heavily on the skills, experience and competence of our employees to we operate and apply appropriate standards and, produce our products safely and efficiently, develop innovative minimise the environmental impacts of our operations as far as new products and support business development in our existing and reasonably practicable.
