Business Overview continued What We Offer Our Customers A continuing increase in the level of competition and further pressure on voice prices in the Western European markets have challenged the Group to Vodafone offers a wide variety of products and services be innovative in ways to deliver more value for money to customers.
By introducing voice offerings that enable customers to significantly increase to its customers.
Traditionally, this has been through their usage whilst only having to commit to a small incremental fee, the the provision of voice services allowing customers to Group has strengthened the role of the mobile as a primary method of make and receive calls whilst at home and abroad.
Messaging services are also offered which allow Customers now have more freedom to use their mobile in ways that offer them customers to send and receive SMS and MMS more value depending on their particular communication needs.
messages and, more recently, email and instant Differentiated, targeted tariffs launched in local markets include offers such as messaging services have been provided in a number of closed user group calling for business customers and designated free numbers the Groups operations.
or family offers for consumer customers.
The launch of new, low-end contract offers has unlocked increased voice usage through lower rates per minute.
Various data services are now provided in many of the In emerging markets the Group has seen the positive development of voice Groups operations, allowing customers to access usage, which is partly driven by economic growth and is partly the result of internet services, watch mobile TV and download providing mobile communication to a wider population through improved games, ringtones, music and other content onto their entry level offers.
The majority of the Groups customers in these regions use mobile phones, while Vodafone Mobile Connect data prepaid services.
In order to deliver more value to customers, the Group has offered different promotions that reward frequent or high credit top-ups.
In cards allow people to access the internet, corporate emerging markets with limited fixed infrastructure, mobile phones are often intranets and their emails whilst on the move using the only telecommunications option.
Here the Group seeks to continue to their notebooks.
During the current financial year, the improve its service offerings, making services more broadly available and Group has been executing on its total communications encouraging greater use.
strategy through fixed location based services, Fixed location based services enhanced mobile data and internet services, and The Group is delivering on customers total communications needs and DSL offerings.
driving greater voice usage through offering integrated communications services.
Analysis of Group revenue % 2007 2006 Vodafone At Home 5 5 Vodafone At Home comprises a range of offers designed to introduce 4 5 Vodafone into the household as a total communications provider.
Vodafone 12 12 At Home voice propositions offer customers the opportunity to satisfy their communication needs through one operator and with a single device.
Voice 79 Messaging Vodafone At Home voice offerings include zonal tariff and fixed line 78 Data telephony and had 3.25 million customers as at 31 March 2007.
With a zonal Fixed line & DSL tariff the customer can make calls from a defined Vodafone At Home geographical area to fixed line numbers and, depending on the offer, other Voice services destinations for example on Vodafone mobile networks, at rates similar to Voice services continue to make up the largest portion of the Groups fixed line providers.
In addition, the customers obtain a fixed line number to revenue.
The Group has undertaken a wide range of activities to stimulate enable them to receive incoming calls when within the Vodafone At Home growth in voice usage in the past year.
These activities range from geographical area.
At 31 March 2007, zonal tariffs had been launched in five improvements of basic tariff designs to launching differentiated voice markets Germany, Italy, France, Hungary and Portugal.
offerings such as Vodafone At Home, which is described in more detail below.
Fixed line telephony offers a customer traditional fixed line calls via public 1 Voice minutes usage growth for the Groups principal mobile markets switched telephone networks PSTN.
At 31 March 2007, this offer had been Outgoing launched in two markets: in the UK as part of the DSL offering and in Outgoing billions of minutes New Zealand.
2007 87.9 Vodafone Office Vodafone Office is the umbrella name for a series of products and services 2006 70.9 designed to meet all our business customers communications needs.
2005 61.2 50 60 70 80 90 Vodafone Wireless Office provides companies the opportunity to reduce their Incoming number of fixed desk phones, facilitating the transfer of voice minutes from Incoming billions of minutes the fixed to the mobile network.
The solution includes a closed user group tariff, allowing employees to call each other for a flat monthly fee.
In three 2007 37.4 markets, Germany, Spain and Portugal, the offer has been expanded to 2006 35.1 include location-based office-zone charging, giving preferential rates when calling from an office location.
Additionally, in these markets, geographic 32.2 2005 numbers have been introduced, enabling further fixed mobile substitution.
20 25 30 35 40 Note: 1 Total statutory voice minutes per year for Germany, Italy, Spain and UK.
At 31 March 2007, Vodafone Wireless Office was available in 14 markets and had over two million customers.
14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Voice roaming Data services When travelling abroad, roaming allows mobile phone users to make and The Group offers a number of products and services to enhance customers receive calls using a mobile network in the country they are visiting.
The access to data services, including Vodafone live!
for consumers, as well as a Group continued to expand its roaming coverage and services during the suite of products for business users consisting of Vodafone Mobile Connect 2007 financial year.
The focus was to provide reduced, clearer and easier to data cards, internet based email solutions and Vodafone Office.
understand prices to our customers under the Vodafone Travel Promise roaming campaign launched in May 2005.
Vodafone live!, the Groups content and internet services proposition, has On 8 May 2006, the Group announced that by April 2007, when compared to been launched in four additional markets since 31 March 2006, Czech the period from June to August 2005, average European roaming voice cost Republic, Romania, Turkey and Bulgaria, bringing the total number of for Vodafone customers would be cut by at least 40%.
This has been countries in which Vodafone live!
is offered to 28. achieved and is expected to benefit over 30 million Vodafone customers who roam every year.
Vodafone has continued to develop the Vodafone live!
offering by improving the handset user experience, making it faster and easier to find content and During the year, commercial management of wholesale roaming lowering barriers to regular use through more transparent and better value relationships with the Groups main roaming partners has resulted in a tariffs.
The design of the Vodafone live!
portal, through which customers can number of important wholesale discount agreements.
These provide cost access a range of online services including games, ringtones, news, sports structures that support the development of our retail propositions, promote and information, is being continually enhanced to provide richer content and the mutual development of roaming services with our Partner Markets and to make it easier for customers to find and purchase content.
deliver significant cost savings as well as securing revenue from the customers of Partner Market networks using Vodafones networks.
The cost During the 2007 financial year, 18 new 2.5G phones were added to the per minute to Vodafone is now 45 eurocents or lower for more than 90% of Vodafone live!
portfolio, with a sustained emphasis on exclusive and Vodafones European traffic.
Managed roaming is also now operating in 13 markets.
with 3G technology automatically directs Vodafone customers to the Vodafone Vodafone live!
with 3G is now available in 21 markets, including launches in networks or networks of Partner Markets, delivering a strong Vodafone Hungary, Malta, Romania and Bulgaria in the 2007 financial year.
This customer experience and allowing the Group to benefit from an improved enhanced version of the proposition delivers all the content and portal cost structure.
services of 2.5G, with richer media services, such as music on demand and mobile TV, enabled by the faster network capabilities of 3G.
Vodafone Passport The success of Vodafone Passport continued throughout the year and, at In addition, 18 of these markets with Vodafone live!
with 3G have now 31 March 2007, the service had attracted 12.7 million customers across deployed the even faster capabilities of 3G Broadband HSDPA.
2007, there were 15.9 million devices registered on the controlled and jointly controlled networks capable of accessing the Vodafone live!
Vodafone Passport enables customers to take their home tariff abroad, offering greater price transparency and certainty to customers when using During the 2007 financial year, 30 new 3G phones were added to the roaming services abroad.
Whilst abroad, customers can make calls using their Vodafone live!
The latest 3G devices are now similar in design to domestic tariff, in some cases including free minute bundles, and receive 2.5G handsets and have improved battery performance, thereby overcoming calls at no charge for a one-off connection fee per call.
barriers that were experienced by earlier phone generations.
Supported by significantly lowered entry level pricing and exclusive devices from all major Customer usage patterns continue to show that, on average, Vodafone vendors, about 30% of Vodafone live!
gross additions in Europe are now Passport customers both talk more and pay less per call when abroad.
Messaging services Vodafone has continued to improve offerings available by developing further All of the Groups mobile operations offer messaging services, which allow insights into customer needs around TV, music and mobile internet.
For customers to send and receive messages using mobile handsets and various example, an improved user interface has been developed for the Mobile TV other devices.
Messaging usage grew 34.0% in the year to 31 March 2007 service, delivering improved channel switching and navigation.
This was first and was driven by increased customer activity, due to the network effect of a deployed in Vodafone Germany in October 2006 and is being rolled out to larger user community, and a shift from price per message to bundled fees, a other Vodafone networks.
Vodafone Italy launched Vodafones first mobile fixed price for a specified number of messages.
MMS, which offers customers broadcast TV service using DVB-H technology and spectrum in December the ability to send and receive multiple media, such as pictures, music, sound, 2006.
Vodafone is continuing to work with major international and national video and text, to and from other compatible devices is also available in all media brands to grow the existing market through breadth of appeal and Group mobile operations.
MMS has enjoyed strong revenue growth in the prove the concepts of future revenue streams such as video on demand, 2007 financial year across the Group through improved handset camera interactivity and advertising-funding.
Key partners include Time Warner, News capabilities.
Corp, NBC, Universal and Sony.
Content from all of these companies complements national content brands.
1 SMS usage growth for the Groups principal mobile markets The Vodafone live!
with 3G service also supports full track music downloads, 2007 48.9 which allow customers to use their phone to listen to music, choosing from a catalogue of more than 750,000 music tracks.
Vodafone has secured music 2006 44.6 from some of the worlds greatest artists through agreements with Sony BMG 37.1 2005 Music Entertainment, EMI, Universal Music, Warner Music and other 30 35 40 45 50 independent record labels.
Key ease of use improvements during this Note: financial year included artist and title search and artists pages, enabling full 1 Total SMSs billions sent per year for Germany, Italy, Spain and UK.
tracks, ringtones, video clips and other related items to be found together.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 15 Business Business Overview continued Following on from the mobile internet search deal signed with Google in Data roaming February 2006, Vodafone announced in February 2007 a number of Vodafone has continued to improve the simplicity, price predictability and important collaborations to bring the benefits of key internet brands to the value for money offered to data services customers.
The collaboration with eBay, MySpace and Google Maps will enable Connect 3G broadband data card users, Vodafone complemented the integrated applications on to customers phones for an easy and secure user monthly roaming bundle launched in 2005 with a daily roaming tariff experience.
An agreement with YouTube will also allow customers to view a appealing to less-frequent international travellers.
At 31 March 2007, this daily selection of new videos, forward links of their favourites, search across tariff was available in three controlled markets.
On 14 March 2007, Vodafone multiple categories and upload their own videos from their mobiles.
announced that the daily tariff would be reduced by over 50% by July 2007.
In addition, Vodafone is supporting customers access to their internet Vodafone has successfully implemented data wholesale tariff structures with messaging services via their mobiles with the introduction of Vodafone more than 15 Partner Market networks, enabling the launch of new data Consumer Push Email.
This service was first made commercially available in roaming propositions.
Vodafone also announced on 14 March 2007 that it Portugal in March 2007.
The service offers customers easy mobile access to would make lower data roaming wholesale rates available to all other their email accounts held in both global, such as Microsoft MSN and AOL, and European operators on a reciprocal basis.
DSL and other services In February 2007, Vodafone announced an agreement with Yahoo!
and In May 2006, Vodafone announced its intention to enter the fixed broadband Microsoft to provide direct access to their instant messaging services from space in order to provide customers with data solutions to meet their total the mobile and the PC.
DSL offered as part of the Vodafone At Home package is now available in five markets, Germany, Italy, UK, Malta and New Zealand, Vodafone Mobile Connect with further markets intended to be launched throughout 2007.
Current DSL The Vodafone Mobile Connect data card provides simple and secure access to offers are provided by Arcor Germany and ihug New Zealand, as well as in existing business systems such as email, corporate applications, company partnership with BT UK, Fastweb Italy and Melita Malta.
intranets and the internet for customers on the move, and is available through a selection of distribution channels.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect Vodafone Office also includes fixed data DSL offerings.
At 31 March 2007, DSL data card based on 2.5G technology is available in eight markets, with 33 was available to business customers in five markets UK, Spain, Netherlands, markets now offering the service on 3G technology.
Additionally, the Portugal and Egypt.
Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G broadband data card offers enhanced download speeds of up to 3.6 Mbps by utilising HSDPA technology and has been With the launch of the Vodafone Applications Service in the UK and Spain, launched in 26 markets.
Vodafone has also taken a further step towards making mobile applications accessible to businesses of all sizes.
This service quickly and efficiently Vodafone has also entered into exclusive partnerships with Acer, Dell, HP and connects existing business applications to mobile handsets, allowing users to Lenovo across multiple markets.
These companies launched a range of builtaccess and exchange information when out of the office.
in 3G broadband connectivity notebooks with a Vodafone SIM built-in at point of manufacture supporting HSDPA technology.
Additionally, Vodafone The Group has been extending its business model to generate revenue from launched the Mobile Connect USB Modem, an innovative, compact and easy mobile advertising by partnering with advertising specialists in individual to use plug and play device.
Vodafone also released an updated version of its markets.
has been operational since March 2007 Vodafone Mobile Connect software that supports the Microsoft Vista in the UK.
These products provide greater choice and connectivity options to our customers for high speed mobile working.
At 31 March 2007, there were 1.5 million registered Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards in the Groups controlled and jointly controlled markets.
Mobile applications In addition to the wireless enablement of notebook computers, there is an increasing demand for handheld solutions that allow real-time access to email, calendar, contact and other applications.
Vodafone Business Email, Windows Mobile Email and BlackBerry from Vodafone provide business customers, ranging from small start-up companies to multinational corporates, with wireless access to their enterprise and internet based email solutions.
Vodafone Business Email and BlackBerry from Vodafone offerings are now available in 36 markets and at 31 March 2007 were supported by 25 global devices and a variety of local devices in the controlled and jointly controlled markets.
There were one million Vodafone email customers in the Groups controlled and jointly controlled markets as at 31 March 2007.
16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
