Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues Corporate Responsibility CR performance is closely monitored and reported to most mobile operating company boards on a regular basis.
CR is also integrated into Vodafone sees corporate responsibility CR as the Vodafones risk management processes such as the formal annual confirmation provided by each mobile operating company detailing the process of understanding the expectations of operation of their controls system.
stakeholders in the Group and taking appropriate action to meet those expectations where they are These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement, which helps to realistic and legitimate.
Stakeholders include ensure Vodafone is aware of the issues relevant to the business and to provide a clear understanding of expectations of performance.
The Group customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the engages with stakeholders in a variety of different ways and this year has communities where the Group operates and where focused on carrying out in-depth discussions on specific, emerging issues networks are based, governments and regulators and through the Vodafone CR Dialogues programme.
For example, during the representatives of civil society.
financial year, opinion former meetings were held on privacy and climate change.
In addition, the Group held meetings relating to CR issues with CR is relevant across all aspects of Vodafones 12 investors and face to face meetings were held with nongovernmental organisations and opinion formers.
This is covered in more detail in the business and being a responsible business is one of Groups CR Report for the 2007 financial year, which can be found at the Groups long term, strategic goals.
CR strategy has the objective by 2010 to be one of the most trusted companies in the markets where Vodafone has increased last years level of independent assessment and assurance of the CR programme and performance to reasonable assurance.
the Group is represented by an operating subsidiary.
The scope of work for the Groups auditors includes a review of the progress The strategy sets clear priorities to: achieved against commitments set out in the 2006 Group CR report and the management and reporting of CR matters against the requirements of the Maintain high ethical standards and understand and assurance standard AA1000 AS, issued by AccountAbility.
This identifies, in respond to stakeholders priorities: all material respects, whether reporting reflects the material CR issues of the Group as defined by the standard, whether processes are in place to Ensure our operating standards are consistent across ensure a complete understanding of the issues, and whether Vodafone is the Group: responding adequately to identified stakeholders expectations.
The assurance statement is published in the Groups CR Report.
Deliver on our promises in three key areas: Over the last year, progress has been made in responding to the Groups responsibility to our customers: reuse and recycling stakeholders expectations.
The most significant developments are of mobile phones: and climate change: and summarised below and further details are provided in the Groups CR Report and on www.
In addition to the Groups CR Capture the potential of mobile to bring Report, 11 operating subsidiaries have produced their own CR report.
onomic v socio-ec alue through access to communications.
During the year, Vodafone was ranked first in the Accountability Rating published by Fortune magazine and Vodafones 2006 CR report won the Vodafones approach to CR is underpinned by its Business Principles which Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ACCA Best Report Award cover, amongst other things, the environment, employees, individual 2006.
Vodafone is included in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones conduct and community and society.
The Business Principles are available Sustainability Index.
com responsibility businessprinciples and are communicated to employees in a number of ways, including induction Access to communications processes, websites and briefings.
Access to communications offers the single greatest opportunity for Vodafone to make a strong contribution to society.
The Vodafone Social The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, receives regular Investment Fund, launched in 2006, has invested in a range of projects information on CR and for the last four years, the Board has had an annual during the course of the year.
A CR management structure is established in each mobile operating company, with each one having a representative on their A considerable pool of research shows that telecommunications and management board with responsibility for CR.
For the purposes of this mobile telecommunications in particular has the potential to change section of the Annual Report, all mobile operating companies refers to the peoples lives for the better by promoting economic development.
During Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture in Italy.
the 2007 financial year, Vodafones focus has been on mobile It excludes the newly acquired operations in Turkey and India.
Systems for payment services: data collection on corporate responsibility and environmental issues are being put in place for the 2008 financial year for Turkey and Arcor, M-PESA was launched in February 2007 by Safaricom, Vodafones joint Vodafones fixed-line business in Germany.
Customers can deposit and withdraw cash at local M-PESA agents, transfer money to other mobile users via SMS and buy prepaid airtime credit.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 75 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues continued Building on M-PESA, Vodafone is piloting an international transfer service Supply chain with Citigroup, enabling people to send money abroad and collect The Group continues to implement Vodafones Code of Ethical Purchasing, remittances via their mobile phones.
which sets out environmental and labour standards for suppliers.
Vodafone and HSBC launched Vodafone Cash in Egypt in February 2007.
A total of 290 suppliers, including approximately 45 strategic global This links a prepaid bank card to mobile phone air-time.
The Vodafone suppliers, have been assessed using the Groups supplier evaluation Cash service is designed to give customers with no bank account an easy scorecard, in which CR accounts for 10% of the total.
The scorecard way to deposit, transfer and withdraw cash.
evaluates the suppliers CR management systems, public reporting and approach to managing their suppliers.
17 site evaluations of high risk Parental controls suppliers have been completed.
All mobile operating companies that offer age-restricted content have implemented parental controls.
These block access to age-restricted A supplier qualification process, incorporating CR, has been implemented content on the Vodafone live!
domain to those under 18 years of age.
in all mobile operating companies.
Internet filters are offered by five operating companies.
This enables parents to prevent their children accessing inappropriate age-restricted content on A Speak Up programme to provide suppliers with a means to report any the internet via their mobile phones.
The mobile operating companies that ethical concerns has been introduced in all mobile operating companies.
have not implemented the filter will remove individual access to the Less than ten incidents have been reported to date: all have been internet completely on request.
Vodafone has signed the European Framework for safer mobile use by Social investment younger teenagers and children.
Signatories to the framework are The Vodafone Group Foundation and the unique network of 19 local committed to develop national self-regulatory codes on child safety and operating company and associate foundations have continued to mobile phones.
implement a global social investment programme.
Earning the trust of customers During the 2007 financial year, the Company made a charitable grant of Vodafones reputation depends on earning the trust of its customers.
A 31.5 million to the Vodafone Group Foundation.
The majority of funds range of issues are key to maintaining trust in Vodafone and our services.
were distributed in grants through local operating company foundations to These include responsible marketing, clear pricing and protecting a variety of local charitable organisations.
The Vodafone Group Foundation customers privacy.
During the year, Vodafone has focused on the clarity of made additional grants to charitable partners engaged in a variety of global marketing communications and the way in which the Group handles projects, notably for disaster relief and preparedness.
In addition, local customer privacy, particularly in relation to the launch of mobile advertising operating companies donated a further 13.0 million to their foundations services announced in May 2006 and in response to increasing demands and a further 3.7 million directly to a variety of causes.
These donations from law enforcement agencies relating to the threat of serious crime total 48.2 million and include donations of 0.7 million made as required and terrorism.
by the terms of certain network operating licences.
In response to concerns raised about freedom of expression and the internet, Vodafone is participating in a stakeholder engagement to draft Environmental Issues principles on privacy and freedom of expression.
More than 20 academics, The Group continues to monitor and manage the impact of its activities on investors, companies and nongovernmental organisations are also involved the environment and is committed to minimising adverse impacts in an in this process.
Over the last 12 months, progress has continued to be made across a series of projects that address environmental issues.
The Group drafted guidelines on its mobile advertising activities to ensure that advertising content in national markets will meet its customers Mobile phones, masts and health expectations and that customers privacy will be protected, by ensuring that Vodafone recognises that there is public concern about the safety of Radio customers personal information will not be used for advertising services Frequency RF fields from mobile phones and base stations.
The Group without obtaining customers consent.
contributes to funding independent scientific research to resolve scientific uncertainty in areas identified by the World Health Organisation WHO.
In In January 2007, Vodafone Greece was fined in respect of breaches of the 2007 financial year, the WHO identified the main gaps in scientific communications privacy legislation.
Refer to page 26 in the Business knowledge, including long-term exposure and issues relating to exposure of Regulation section for further details of the case.
The WHO reported that further research into RF fields from mobile base stations is a low priority due to the very low exposure levels from this source.
76 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Vodafone requires manufacturers of the mobiles it sells to test for SAR Reuse and recycling Specific Absorption Rate compliance when used both against the ear Mobile phones, accessories and the networks on which they operate require and against, or near, the body, using the US FCC Test procedure.
Vodafone is upgrading, replacement and decommissioning.
Whilst Vodafone does not actively engaged with the IEC Standards Organisation in developing a new manufacture equipment, the Group does purchase it.
New European global protocol for body worn phones.
At the end of 2006, the operating legislation on electronic waste came into force during the 2007 financial companies completed a two year implementation programme of the year.
The Group complies with the EUs Waste Electronic and Electrical Groups Health and Safety of Radio Frequency Fields Policy to ensure all its Equipment WEEE directive through its handset recycling programmes in base stations comply with international standards.
The Groups long term all operating companies where it applies.
The Group has also worked with programme of engagement, with a range of stakeholders, aims to reduce suppliers to ensure substances prohibited by the Restriction of the use of levels of concern amongst the public and to demonstrate that Vodafone is certain Hazardous Substances directive are phased out.
financial year: Responsible network deployment Over one million phones were collected for reuse and recycling through Vodafones mobile services rely on a network of base stations that transmit collection programmes in 16 mobile operating companies.
This exceeds and receive calls.
The Group recognises that network roll out can cause our target of increasing our handset collection by 50% from 2005 levels concern to communities, usually about the visual impact of base stations or the target figure was adjusted to take into account the disposal of the health issues concerning RF fields.
Vodafone has continued to implement operations in Japan : and its policy and guidelines on responsible network deployment.
In addition, seven mobile operating companies have signed up to national industry 9,960 tonnes of network equipment waste was generated, with 97% of codes of best practice on network deployment.
this sent for reuse or recycling, exceeding our target of 95%.
During the 2007 financial year, Vodafone was found in breach of planning regulations relating to 423 mast sitings.
Fines levied by regulatory bodies or Environmental Performance Indicators courts in relation to offences under environmental law or regulations were 1 2 1 3 1 2007 2006 2005 approximately 16,500.
Number of mobile operating subsidiaries undertaking independent RF field monitoring 15 15 14 By cooperating with other mobile operators to share sites, the Group can 4 5 Total energy use GWh direct and indirect 2,690 2,900 2,600 reduce the total number of base stations required.
This lowers costs, Total carbon dioxide emissions enables faster network deployment and reduces the environmental 4 millions of tonnes 1.23 1.31 1.2 footprint of the network without loss of quality or coverage.
During the year, % of energy sourced from renewables 17 12 11 Vodafone announced the intention to participate in a number of network Number of phones collected for reuse and sharing agreements in the Czech Republic, Spain and the UK.
5 recycling million 1.03 1.37 1.14 Network equipment waste generated tonnes 9,960 2,950 3,404 Energy use and efficiency % network equipment waste sent for reuse Climate change is widely recognised as the greatest global environmental or recycling 97 97 96 challenge and limiting the Groups contribution is a priority.
One of the Notes: Groups significant areas of impact is the energy use associated with the 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated data collected by the operation of the network, which accounts for more than 80% of the Groups Groups mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figure carbon dioxide emissions.
In the 2007 financial year: is calculated using the kWh CO2 conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national grid and for other energy sources in each operating company.
The data collection and reporting energy use was 2,690 GWh, equating to 1.23 million tonnes of carbon process is within the assurance undertaken by Deloitte & Touche LLP on the Companys CR Report.
The Groups joint venture in Italy is included in all years.
dioxide: and 2 The data for the 2007 financial year excludes the newly acquired operations in Turkey and the operations in Japan that were sold during the 2007 financial year.
network carbon dioxide emissions per unit of data transmitted decreased 3 The data for the 2006 financial year excludes the Czech Republic, Romania and the operations in Sweden that were sold during the 2006 financial year, but does include operations in Japan by 29%.
that were disposed of during the 2007 financial year.
Other environmental impacts include ozone-depleting substances, paper 5 Figures corrected after further analysis of data obtained during the last financial year.
These are reported at www.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 77 Go Gov vernanc ernance e
