Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Employees An analysis of the average employee headcount by category of activity is shown below.
The cost incurred in respect of employees including directors from discontinued operations was 16 million 2006: 155 million, 2005: 191 million.
Subsequent events Acquisition of Hutchison Essar On 8 May 2007, the Group completed its acquisition of 100% of the share capital in CGP Investments Holdings Limited CGP for US$10.9 billion from Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited.
CGP owns a 51.95% indirect shareholding in Hutchison Essar Limited Hutchison Essar, a mobile telecommunications operator in the Indian market.
As part of its acquisition of CGP, Vodafone acquired a less than 50% equity interest in Telecom Investments India Private Limited TII and in Omega Telecom Holdings Private Limited Omega, which in turn have a 19.54% and 5.11% indirect shareholding in Hutchison Essar.
The Group was granted call options to acquire 100% of the shares in two companies which together indirectly own the remaining shares of TII for, if the market equity value of Hutchison Essar at the time of exercise is less than US$25 billion, an aggregate price of US$431 million or, if the market equity value of Hutchison Essar at the time of exercise is greater than US$25 billion, the fair market value of the shares as agreed between the parties.
The Group also has an option to acquire 100% of the shares in a third company, which owns the remaining shares in Omega.
In conjunction with the receipt of these options, the Group also granted a put option to each of the shareholders of these companies with identical pricing which, if exercised, would require Vodafone to purchase 100% of the equity in the respective company.
These options can only be exercised in accordance with Indian law prevailing at the time of exercise.
In conjunction with the acquisition, Vodafone assumed guarantees over US$450 million and INR10 billion 121 million of third party financing of TII and Omega and received investments in preference shares of TII and its subsidiaries amounting to INR25 billion 292 million, which entitle the holder to a redemption premium of approximately 13% per annum.
Concurrently with the acquisition of CGP, the Group granted put options exercisable between 8 May 2010 and 8 May 2011 to members of the Essar group of companies that will allow the Essar group to sell its 33% shareholding in Hutchison Essar to the Group for US$5 billion or to sell between US$1 billion and US$5 billion worth of Hutchison Essar shares to the Group at an independently appraised fair market value.
As with the above call and put options, this put option can only be exercised in accordance with Indian law prevailing at the time of exercise.
On 28 February 2007, an Indian consumer association, Telecom Watchdog, filed an application in the High Court of Delhi which appears in substance to question Hutchison Essars compliance with the 74% telecom sectoral cap on foreign ownership.
The Union of India, Hutchison Essar and HTIL are among 22 named Respondents.
Telecom Watchdog requests the court to direct the Ministry of Communication & IT to cancel the licences issued to Hutchison Essar and its subsidiaries.
It also requests the court to direct the Government to initiate proceedings against Hutchison Essar under the Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999.
Other remedies are sought against other companies and individuals.
These proceedings are at an early stage and the Group believes them to be without merit.
136 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
