CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Measuring, managing, leading, improving WITH IMPROVED UNDERSTANDING AND CONfIDENCE AROUND OUR PERfORMANCE WE MOVE fORWARD TO ALIGN OUR OPERATIONS BEHIND A UNIfIED LONG TERM STRATEGY TO DELIVER INDUSTRY LEADING PERfORMANCE.
Barbara Harrison HS&EDirector A clear improvement strategy reporting that will accommodate emerging and more Building on the sound work to date, we move forward with predictive leading key performance indicators.
the continued ambition to deliver industry leading health Our US operations are included in our data capture for the & safety performance.
This vision has been consolidated first time, so performance is shown separately.
into a group Health & Safety Strategy which was launched We recognise that improvements are required to the in May 2007 and will align our operations behind four engagement and management of contractors and last year core objectives: we recorded 2 RIDDOR major and 6 over 3 day reportable Strong leadership of a shared culture through accidents to UK contractors.
Next year we will work with supervision, coaching and stakeholder engagement procurement and local management teams to improve the Robust governance and assurance with clear vision, management of safety through our supply chain.
policy and standards All business units have health & safety policies in place that are geared to their individual operations.
Last year A learning organisation with HS&E functional excellence we added improved rigour to our H&S assurance and Measurement & benchmarking with feedback, governance, initiated by re-affirmation of the group H&S recognition and reward.
policy and management processes and based on the UK Health & Safety Management standard BS 18001.
Last year we set out to improve the capture and reporting In 2007 VT Emergency Services won the International of our H&S data.
As a result we are able to report our Safety Award from the British Safety Council.
figures this year with confidence, and with the knowledge that they include our operations worldwide and UK A revitalised Health & Safety forum provides strategic contractor activities.
We believe that the increased focus to the board, and is supported by a new accident rate seen this year is the result of previous Best Practice Working Group that will fast-track the under-reporting and while we continue to out perform the interpretation of emerging legislation, lessons learnt and respective sector performance published by the UK Health sharing of best practice.
Audit plays a key role in providing & Safety Executive, our future strategy aims to deliver Best assurance on our safety management and we will develop in Class performance.
We aim to implement electronic a safety audit programme that will deliver improved internal and external assurance.
42 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 John Birchmoor, HS&E Manager at VT Shipbuilding Partnering to reduce risk In July 2006 the Health & Safety Executive launched the Worker Involvement managing noise and hand-arm vibration risks Project, in collaboration with the EEf, the Construction federation, fMB and Unions UCATT and GMB.
VT Shipbuilding became one of a small group of companies to participate in a pilot project.
A key part of the project was to develop worker involvement in the manufacturing and construction sectors and working with suppliers on specification, maintenance and management of hand tools.
I believe it is essential that Health & Safety Executive works closely with industry to develop new ideas and strategies for effectively tackling health and safety risks in the workplace.
An excellent example of such cooperation is the worker involvement project that VT Shipbuilding is piloting on behalf of HSE.
If, as we expect, worker involvement is successful in improving management of these risks, we intend to promote it widely across industry.
What will help us to achieve this is the energy, imagination and enthusiasm that the company has brought to the project and the example it has set for others to follow.
I would like to thank the VT Group for its support, particularly the team leading this project.
Geoffrey Podger ChiefExecutiveHSE 43 Education VT Services Inc. VT Group excl.
US All Industries Other Services Construction Shipbuilding & Ship Repair CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Continued Environment Governance Reportable Accident Rate per 100,000 Employees 3000 06 07 Performance Data 05 06 2500 Fatal Accidents 0 Compared with UK Health & Safety Executive Sector SIC Rates 2000 Prosecutions 0 Prohibition Notices 0 1500 Improvement Notices 0 1000 Fines 0 500 RIDDOR Dangerous Occurences 4 0 Occupational Health Whilst we have made solid progress in gaining understanding of sickness absence within the group, next year we will further improve the collection of data on workrelated ill health especially stress and musculoskeletal The introduction of six monthly business unit reviews injuries.
We will also review our return to work processes.
chaired by the chief executive has yielded a much In 2006 2007 2,213 UK employees received occupational improved understanding of our health & safety risks and health screening.
As with many manufacturing companies, lent renewed vigour to the senior level review of policy, as Hand Arm Vibration Syndrome HAVs continues to be well as delivery of performance improvements.
a potential exposure issue in our Shipbuilding and fSL We carried out internal benchmarking in the area of businesses.
Last year 66 cases of HAVs were diagnosed.
employee engagement and are pleased to report over These are identified as long-standing cases and we expect 90% compliance with VT minimum standards across the figure to drop as our HAVs management plans deliver the businesses.
We recognise that achieving our performance aspirations Referrals to our occupational health provider and calls to will only be attained through a positive safety culture.
our employee assistance line have suggested that work We have taken the first steps to strengthen and develop related pressure may be an issue for parts of our business.
the visible leadership of our directors and managers Next year we will set out to understand these risks further including the introduction of group senior executive safety and consider the best arrangements for managing stress objectives and safety tours.
Next year we will progress the related issues.
development of a Group Safety Leadership Programme.
44 Accident Rate 1123 891 641 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Refuelling operations at fort Huachuca, Arizona VT Griffin: working to raise safety performance Continuous improvement is the theme in Safety and Environmental performance throughout all VT Griffin locations in the United States.
fort Huachuca, fort McCoy and Kings Bay are all actively pursuing the distinguished US Occupational Safety & Health Administrations Voluntary Protection Program Star designation.
fort Huachuca has recently received the 2006 Armys Distinguished Refuelling Operations Award which encompasses excellence in Environmental and Safety performance.
fort McCoy has seen a dramatic improvement in their accident frequency rates over the last two years by getting employees actively engaged in the accident prevention process.
At all three sites employees have embraced the concept that their effective pro-action results in best in class safety performance.
Reducing workforce injuries Musculoskeletal injuries due to poor manual handling are a common hazard within many of our businesses.
fleet Support Limited, operating within the Portsmouth Naval Base, worked with an innovative training provider resulting in a reduction by some 42% in the number of manual handling incidents in the last year.
A new approach moving away from the traditional styles was employed.
Trainers, led by a former Olympic weightlifter and world record holder delivered a very serious message in a fun and memorable style.
So if the work takes place in the bilge of the ship then thats where the training takes place!
This unique and realistic approach delivered achievable principles out of the classroom pitched at a level that everyone can both understand and enjoy.
