CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Quantifying and reducing our impacts GROUP-WIDE REPORTING AND AUDIT IN 2006 HAS DELIVERED IMPROVED UNDERSTANDING Of ENVIRONMENTAL RISK AND PERfORMANCE.
Our primary objective in 2006 was to advance our A number are in the process of implementing external environmental data capture and reporting.
The introduction verification of their environmental management of KPIs aligned with DEfRA and GRI guidelines has systems.
In 2006 fSL was successful in achieving enabled baseline data to be reported for the first time.
level 5 of BS 8555 and both VT four S and flagship at the fire fighting Training Unit in Portsmouth achieved The reporting processes are not yet robust and we are ISO 14001 certification.
particularly challenged by the definition of our boundaries.
The structure and diversity of the group in itself makes the In 2006 Environmental Resources Management Ltd ERM collection of data a challenge.
As a service company we were engaged to undertake an environmental assurance do not always have access to information, and in some audit across the group.
The programme, scoped in areas of operation we may not have direct management conjunction with the business units, has been delivered influence on sustainability performance.
This is particularly on a prioritised basis and the first phase is due for true of our US and public sector operations.
The audit results will not only provide a compliance status of our operations but will also deliver Our future focus will be on the areas of energy and global recommendations on the associated options to better warming contribution, waste and recycling, as well as manage environmental risk as well as highlighting good the impact of our activities on environmentally sensitive practices.
The individual reports also set out to deliver areas.
We will also work with the supply chain to address practical prioritised corrective actions to the sites and resource usage, including the sourcing of materials.
opportunities for the further reduction of environmental risk.
The group environmental policy was refreshed in 2006 and We measure the robustness of our environmental now provides the overarching framework for the business management systems, and in 2006 undertook 1,276 internal units.
The range and nature of environmental impacts and 390 external audit days.
Environmental budgeting is an and risks varies widely within the group and each of our integral part of our operational management.
businesses will apply local environmental polices and management systems appropriate to their needs.
46 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 report data only for environmental impacts under the direct Environmental Management control of the group and excluding the US businesses.
Serious environmental incidents spills, Waste prosecutions convictions, 0 enforcement notices warning letters VT environmental teams have already significantly reduced waste on managed sites such as HMS Sultan and we Complaints about our operations 2 expect to report further progress next year.
In 2006 we recycled 56% of our general waste.
As a group we delivered 307 training days exclusively on Waste Tonnes per m environmental issues, in addition to the training carried Net Sales out during operational induction, site management Value NSV procedures etc.
Hazardous 180 0.3 Environmentally sensitive sites General 2,178 3.6 The group is increasingly aware of the impact that our Recycling 1,212 operations can have on local ecology and biodiversity.
We know that maintaining a rich diversity of species and habitats is important to local communities and other Recycled Waste stakeholders.
In 2006 11 UK VT operations reported working close to environmentally sensitive areas.
These Plastics & Other included the Portsmouth Harbour, Crimond and Bowness Metals Common SSSIs, National Trust and RSPB reserves, a Marsh fritillary butterfly colony, fen environments and local Paper County Wildlife Trust Sites of Nature Conservation Interest WEEE, batteries, etc SNCI.
Our environmental management systems are locally geared to ensure the long-term protection of these Water sensitive areas.
We are working to understand better the patterns Awards of our site water use, and opportunities for recycling VT Group business units received a total of nine and reduction.
Of note was the 3 VT Griffin Navy site at Kings Bay which was awarded the m per Water m NSV prestigious State of Georgia 2006 Plant of the Year Award by the Georgia Association of Water Professionals.
3 Totalusage, thousandm 58 96 3 Environmental Data Licensedabstraction, m 500 We anticipate that further sharpening of our data collection Operational&SiteUse 87% systems and redefining the boundaries of reporting will OfficialUse 13% result in some rebasing of the data next year.
This year we 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Continued Governance Energy Tonnes CO Emitted 2005 06 2006 07 2 VT recognises the pressing issues of climate change and the need for sustainable consumption and Baseline2003 33,919 33,919 production.
Last year we took the first steps to improve Allocation 28,351 28,829 our understanding of energy use and began the collation of global data of our energy consumption in buildings, ActualEmissions 20,110 17,350 industrial usage, and some initial assessment of the TeamPortsmouth impact of transport fleet activities.
Our operations are also making significant efforts locally to reduce energy consumption.
Evaluation is in progress Next year we have set out to improve the accuracy of for the use of alternative energy sources in a number the measurement of our carbon footprint, and improve of projects, including micro-generation options such as quantitative disclosure both in our annual reporting and wind turbines and solar panels.
through the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We will pay specific attention to energy attributable to business travel VT Communications are using approved CHP sources and those locations where we manage or share sites.
with Climate Change Levy exemption.
A transmitter replacement programme at Woofferton will successfully MWh per reduce the sites carbon footprint by over 25% and the Energy Use GWh m NSV business has scheduled transmitter replacements over several years as part of an energy reduction programme.
Electricity 126 210 VT Education and Skills have completed a feasibility Gas 4.5 7 study on converting the company fleet entirely to the use of hybrid vehicles.
Fuel Oil 68 113  199 331 VT businesses are passionate about supporting our customers in achieving their objectives to reduce carbon Total Absolute Tonnes Equivalent CO 2 intensity.
flagship have shown excellent results for the MoD training facilities and VT Land White fleet have  72 2 established a sustainable development team to ensure TonnesCO EquivalentpermNSV 120 that the MoD achieves its target to reduce carbon 2 emissions by 15%.
As well as being a part of the overall VT Group In 2006, VT Communications purchased 56 kg of Sf6 reporting above, VT Shipbuilding are included in the gas, a DEfRA defined sustainability indicator.
The use of Team Portsmouth registration with the EU Emissions the gas as a dielectric in HV switchgear is currently under Trading Scheme.
In this second year of operation, Team review to ensure future compliance and minimisation of Portsmouth has succeeded in beating its CO emission both losses and deployment.
2 allocation by almost one third 8,241 tonnes, 29%, and reducing emissions by 41% over the baseline set in 2003.
48 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Through working together at HMS Sultan, the Royal Navy and flagship have reduced energy consumption by 22% Partnering with the Royal Navy to reduce energy use flagship has been the Royal Navys partner in training since 1996.
At HMS Sultan one of the four locations of the Defence College of Electro-Mechanical Engineering, and just nine months into the RN flagship Sustainable Energy Partnership, the Commodores team has achieved a annualised reduction of 22% in energy consumption some 8 million kWh.
The work and dedication of the combined military and Flagship Tiger Team has paid enormous dividends reducing our energy consumption has benefited both the environment and saved hundreds of thousands of pounds.
Commodore G J Thwaites ADCRoyalNavy,   This knowledge and competence building initiative has now been spread across all four locations of DCEME by the Commodores Tiger Team resulting in energy conservation benefits across the whole college.
The team is now using the same approach to understand and reduce water usage.
Gaining BS8555 and driving down environmental impacts fSL has achieved level 5 of BS 8555 as part of the DEfRA Project Acorn initiative, and are now one short step from certification to ISO14001.
As part of Team Portsmouth, fSL have played a full part in driving environmental gains at the Base.
In addition to helping to cut carbon emissions by nearly 20 per cent, a total of 1.9 million savings were made this year.
Taken over the past three years, the improvements have been impressive, with local CO emissions having almost 2 halved.
Building on this success, the base is targeting further reductions in energy consumption with the aim of cutting emissions by at least another five per cent next year.
Recycling has shown a dramatic increase with some 25% of waste now being recycled with improvements in waste reduction plus re-use being the next targets.
