Remuneration Committee Report Continued Directors interests The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 28 December 2007 and at the end of the preceding financial year were as follows: As at 28 December 2007 As at 29 December 2006 shares shares under option LTIP awards shares shares under option LTIP awards Sir Robert Smith 52,400 -- 50,000 -- Christopher Clarke 10,000 -- 10,000 -- Keith Cochrane 5,185 - 118,983 3,500 - 76,695 Michael Dearden 10,000 -- 10,000 -- Stephen King 1,050 -- 1,050 -- Alan Mitchelson 98,441 - 148,586 67,767 - 134,153 Professor Ian Percy -- - - -- Lord Robertson 2,637 -- 2,637 -- Mark Selway 211,396 - 358,486 126,426 - 393,089 i At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the Company remain as stated above except that on 9 January 2008, Stephen King purchased 5,500 ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
ii No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Companys business, in any debenture stocks of the Company, or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary.
Michael Dearden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 11 March 2008 40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our approach The Environmental Health and Safety Group Forum has been The Weir Group is a global organisation, working in sectors and working toward all our major European operations achieving industries that have a significant impact on human and natural OHSAS 18001 accreditation by the end of 2008.
As an organisation, our core values include integrity, Occupational Health Safety Assessment Series was developed by self-determination and valuing people.
These values ensure we the British Standards Institute as a health and safety management remain focused on meeting our responsibilities to our customers, framework allowing organisations to ensure that they are suppliers, employees and shareholders, as well as to the consistently and accurately identifying hazards and risks within communities where we work.
Providing a platform for eliminating and managing these identified risks, the system supports the By ensuring that corporate social responsibility is an inherent organisation to continually improve its products, people and part of leadership that crosses all boundaries in our organisation, process by fulfilling the overhanging safety policy that indicates we seek to combine business success with support for people, the companys commitment and objectives.
OHSAS 18001 offers communities and the environment.
We recognise that corporate a proactive approach to reducing accidents, near misses and social responsibility requires us first and foremost to listen to other incidents year on year.
our external and internal customers in everything we do and to respond to their needs through the enduring excellence of Employees our actions, policies and processes.
The root cause of 95% of accidents is as a result of behaviours.
Conventional approaches to accident reduction will go some We involve and inform our employees as much as possible within way to help achieve the business goal of reducing injuries in regulatory constraints.
Given the diverse nature and geographical the workplace.
However, to further reduce accident rates, spread of our operations, it would be inappropriate and impractical a behavioural approach to safety must be adopted.
to apply uniform procedures group-wide and each company is therefore responsible for achieving and maintaining appropriate The Group has adopted a behavioural system known as SAFESTART consultation and communication with its employees.
We which has been rolled out to all operations and all new employees communicate generally with employees through the production are given this training as part of their induction.
The Group is and distribution on a regular basis of printed and electronic committed to maintain the profile of this programme throughout newspapers and bulletins for employees to promote awareness the Group as the key to its success is the involvement and of current progress and developments within the Group.
understanding at all levels of the organisation.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to employment The Group is committed to an accident free health and safety applications from disabled persons.
Where an employee environment based on the belief that all accidents are preventable.
becomes disabled, arrangements are made wherever practicable The Group Operations Executive Committee drives this commitment to continue employment by identifying an available job suited to through operations globally.
The businesses record all near misses that persons capabilities and providing any necessary retraining.
and injuries within their operations and these are analysed on The Groups career development programme encourages disabled a continuous basis to reduce the number of lost time accidents employees to reach their full potential.
through improvement of the working environment.
Throughout 2007, the Group Operations Executive Committee The Groups policy on health and safety requires that all our reviewed the safety, quality and environmental performance companies take a proactive responsible attitude to the protection against the objectives set for 2007.
The primary concerns are to of their employees health and safety.
All companies carefully reduce accidents in the workplace and maintain high standards evaluate risks to personnel wherever they are working and take of environmental management in all of our activities.
appropriate steps to minimise such risks.
These include ensuring that project design engineers consider design factors that In line with this philosophy, we pursue excellence through our minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents to personnel during global Environmental, Health and Safety Forums whose goal is site installation and commissioning.
All Group companies are to eliminate work-related injuries, prevent pollution, conserve required to comply with the legislation governing health and resources, comply with regulatory requirements and improve safety at work and to conduct regular formal health and safety performance.
These forums annually review our performance reviews at plant and site level.
These reviews are undertaken by in these areas, collect data, share best practice and plan for the nominated managers and employees to ensure that risks are coming year.
In turn, these plans are disseminated and included properly evaluated, events leading to accidents are examined within individual business plans throughout our operations.
and appropriate remedial or avoidance action initiated and This ensures consistency in performance measurement and subsequently monitored.
Formal reporting procedures have improvement activities.
Forum members also perform cross been implemented so that the safety performance of individual company safety audits to identify practices that are working companies is monitored and peer-to-peer audits are conducted in well and areas for improvement.
Concern reports are used to order to provide a critical assessment of each companys performance.
track completion of corrective actions.
During 2007, the Group held its first Global Environmental, Safety and Health Conference The increased focus in this important issue includes full investigations in Glasgow which brought together each of the local forums to of all accidents being carried out and reported at the Group identify best practice and plan the priorities for the coming year.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued The key measure of safety performance is the number of lost time Supplier relations accidents LTAs.
The Group adopts a more stringent lost time We recognise that our corporate social responsibility also reflects measurement criterion than the industry norm of 3 days.
The the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does not recorded LTAs use the Group definition of incidents resulting in operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers lost time of more than 4 hours.
The results for 2005, 2006 and and each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms 2007 are as follows: and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments Lost Time Accidents to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 28 December 2007, the Group had an average of 61 days purchases 180 outstanding in trade creditors.
160 Many Weir companies are collaborating closely with suppliers to 140 address environmental considerations throughout the supply chain 91 120 to our mutual benefit, particularly in areas such as raw materials, 100 Acquired Businesses packaging and recycling.
49 Existing Businesses 80 25 Workplace 60 40 78 62 50 20 0 2005 2006 2007 The results for 2005, 2006 and 2007 reflect the considerable improvement which the Group's focus on safety has achieved during the period of review.
Companies that were already owned by the Group at the start of 2005 were successful in reducing their lost time accidents by 19% in 2007.
Companies which have been acquired by the Group in the same period include Weir Gabbioneta, our Saudi Arabian joint venture, Weir SPM and Weir Multiflo and we have used their historic prior to ownership records for the purposes of comparison.
These companies In December 2007, Weir Minerals India was honoured with combined reduced their lost time accidents by 49% in the year the prestigious India Manufacturing Excellence Gold Award for reflecting the considerable emphasis which the Group places Engineering facilities by Frost & Sullivan, a US based global on this area on any new acquisition.
The awards for Engineering and other sectors aim to highlight the best facilities in India that have The companies who have the highest numbers of accidents achieved and sustained manufacturing excellence.
A stringent are audited by our insurers to ensure that proper systems and evaluation process including site visits is used to select award processes are in place.
The reduction can also be attributed to recipients, with factors being assessed including Safety improvements in education and training and adoption of Lean and Environment, Supply Chain, Quality Systems and manufacturing principles.
Near misses are also monitored to Operational Flexibility.
further improve the safety culture that is being engendered across the Group.
In 2007, Weir Services Middle East was given recognition as a top tier supplier by BP through the divisions Baku service facility In November 2007, Weir Services Alloa were awarded the which manages BPs workshop and maintains their critical rotating Opticon Contractor of the Year award for Health & Safety by equipment assets in the Caspian.
This is a reflection of the working ScottishPower.
Opticon stands for Optimisation of Contractors, relationship with BP which has led them to expand the breadth an accreditation scheme which recognises efforts in achieving of the contract to include spares procurement and additional added value through cooperation and sharing knowledge and asset management.
The award is in recognition of the completion of two major pump and valve actuator outages at Longannet Power Environment Station.
Weir Services Alloa completed the contract working over The Group is committed to the protection of the environment 50,000 man hours on site with an Accident Frequency Rate and in which all its companies operate.
Total Reportable Incident Rate of zero.
Through a process of close Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory engagement involving ScottishPower staff and fellow Opticon requirements applicable to its business.
contractors, the contract was completed without injury to personnel or damage to the environment.
Each Weir company will ensure that it is seen to be a good citizen in the community in which it operates and adopt practices aimed at minimising the environmental impact of its operations.
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Lost Time Accidents n Maintenance of the Groups environmental policy is the Weir Minerals South America runs free bus services from each responsibility of the Group Operations Executive Committee, of the towns surrounding its factory for all staff, thus reducing while its implementation is the responsibility of divisional pollution by reducing car usage and also congestion.
Each Weir division is required to report Community and educational on environmental performance and maintain environmental During the year, Group companies were involved in numerous management practices.
community, social and cultural initiatives, many of which were The Group policy is that all its operations will be ISO 14001 nominated and driven by our employees.
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification in a range of educational and training initiatives.
for an effective structured environmental management system Weir Services Australia sponsors two engineering Scholarships which helps organisations achieve environmental and economic at the University of New South Wales.
Undergraduate Materials goals as well as assisting in the implementation of environmental Science students are selected by an interview panel academics policy.
An ISO 14001 accredited environmental management and Weir personnel to receive a scholarship over four years system provides our customers, employees and shareholders with to assist in their studies.
The students are offered vacational the assurance that our environmental performance meets and will employment for 12 weeks per year to obtain practical experience.
continue to meet our legal and environmental policy requirements.
The scholarship programme allows Weir to contribute to the Through the Group Environmental, Health and Safety Forums, ever-diminishing pool of future scientists.
In addition, Weir all new businesses are brought into line with best practice in Minerals Australia has an employee from the R&D section in the implementation of ISO 14001.
In addition, the Forums are Group Technology who is currently being sponsored for a PhD a useful arena to allow local and international environmental at University of Technology, Sydney in the study of erosion wear legislative developments to be monitored before they become resistant white cast irons.
Weir Minerals Australia also sponsors law.
This proactive approach allows us to conform with future a PhD student and a Post Doctorate Fellow who are working on environmental legislation before laws are passed by voluntarily a research programme at the University of Alberta, Edmonton, taking action on specific issues.
This is close to the huge Oil Sands Mineral process As part of our integrated commitment to ISO 14001 accreditation, plants.
The Oil Sands Mines have estimated operating lives of we have a rolling programme as part of our 100 day integration hundreds of years and are heavy users of large slurry pumps plan which we put in place in relation to any new business unit.
for hydro transport and mineral processing.
They also sponsor During 2007, Weir Valves & Controls China, Weir Services in Saudi a research programme at the University of Akron, USA into a Arabia, Abu Dhabi, India and Malaysia, plus service centres in study of wear fundamentals of elastomeric materials over the Grand Prairie, Canada and Wollongong, Australia and the Minerals next three to four years.
South African Rustenberg Service Centre all achieved ISO 14001 Weir Minerals South America sponsors a chair at the University accreditation.
It is expected that our only other non-compliant School of Engineering to support a professor in the Structural companies, Weir Gabbioneta, Weir Minerals China, Weir SPM and Seismic Isolation discipline.
They also sponsor a chair at and Weir Multiflo, will achieve full compliance in 2008. the University School of Metallurgical Engineering to support a Environmental performance professor in the Metallurgic and Mining discipline.
The managing The Group policy is to minimise its environmental impact and any director sits as a board member of the Education and Capacitating environmental incidents are reported to the Group Operations National Enterprises Organisation, which is responsible for several Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
The definition of a schools for low income students and provides further education reportable incident is: to enable students to get a technical speciality qualification.
Any incident which involves the accidental release, emission Employees from Weir Services Alloa are actively involved with or discharge of contaminants to air, water or land and requires local Glasgow, South Lanarkshire and East Renfrewshire schools outside resources to control or is required to be reported to on issues such as school placement requests and career talks.
They have also provided employees for IMechE Mentoring, a scheme which provides mentoring for the Institute of Mechanical In 2007, there were no environmental incidents at any of the Engineers and involves advice and lectures to undergraduates.
As all our businesses have an objective of continuous improvement, our environmental initiatives focus on minimising waste generation, preventing pollution and reducing energy consumption.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Weir Minerals India has adopted a small school and volunteers visit the school at least once a month, spending time with the children and helping them.
The company also has several workplace initiatives namely: Comprehensive Sexual, Reproductive Health & HIV AIDS Programme: Preventative health-care education: and Health education about, among others, lifestyle, diseases, and fide-stressing.
Under community outreach initiatives, Weir Minerals India has During December 2007, the staff at Weir Minerals South America identified beneficiaries such as childrens homes and schools, and Peru took gifts to two local underprivileged communities at is planning to provide educational support, health education and Newmont Yanacocha and La Laguna.
In 2007, Weir Services Alloa entered a team of three for a 30 mile cycle and 45 mile walk along Scotlands Great Glen for Maggie Monster Bike and Hike.
The task, completed in 20 hours, raised money for Maggie's Cancer Centres.
In addition, several staff and customers of Weir Services Alloa and Cathcart entered a charity white water rafting event for Chest, Heart and Stroke Scotland.
Weir Minerals South America have a variety of initiatives including charity donations inside the San Bernardo community.
The staff of the Chile Plant in San Bernardo help tidy and prepare the company football stadium for the surrounding neighbourhood and their children and also put together a Soccer School.
Weir SPM, Fort Worth employees donated personal care items and a cash donation for families in need in their local community.
The photograph shows members of the Weir SPM Charity Committee giving the donations to a member of the White Settlement Community Services group.
Weir Minerals South America also organised an Open Day for the families of employees to come to work to find out more about the companys products, how they are used in the mining industry and how their parents contribute to the Group in their daily functions.
44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 The Weir Group PLC Financial Statements for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007 Group Financial Statements 46 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 47 Independent Auditors Report 48 Consolidated Income Statement 49 Consolidated Balance Sheet 50 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 51 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income & Expense 52 Notes to the Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements 96 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 97 Independent Auditors Report 98 Company Balance Sheet 99 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 107 Principal Companies of the Group 108 Shareholder Information Inside back cover - Financial Calendar The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 45
