COrPOraTE rESPONSibiLiTy rEviEW fOCUSEd ON THE fUTUrE At WHSmith, we believe that good corporate responsibility The volume of material from recycled sources and CR is essential to the long-term success of our business.
certified forests rose from 32 per cent to 41 per cent, We remain committed to managing our impact on society a significant year on year increase.
But we know there and the environment, with our approach shaped by the is more work to be done and we will be working hard views and expectations of our stakeholders.
This year we to make further increases in the year ahead.
were delighted to improve our performance in the annual Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index Ethical trading for the fourth successive year, achieving a Gold ranking.
We have a responsibility to ensure that our products are made in decent working conditions and our aim is that Our stand-alone Corporate Responsibility Report, suppliers should, at a minimum, meet the standards set available at www.
com cr, provides full details out in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
We work with them of our performance against targets we published last year, to provide training and advice, and to demonstrate the together with those we have set for the year ahead.
Some benefits of improved labour standards.
We also work highlights from this Report are included below: with the Ethical Trade Initiative ETI, an alliance of companies, Non-Governmental Organisations and trade markETPLaCE unions, to promote and improve the implementation Customers are increasingly concerned about the social of corporate codes of practice covering supply chains.
and environmental impact of the products in their shopping baskets.
They want to be reassured that Before we place an order, our specialist Hong Kong products they buy have not been made at the expense of social compliance team visit all new suppliers to the environment or of the workers who made the product.
assess labour standards against our Code of Conduct, examining everything from factory production records responsible marketing to fire exits and worker dormitories.
They then visit on Our customers are a diverse group and they often have a regular basis to ensure any necessary improvements strongly differing views about the products we sell.
We are being made and provide support.
This year, the team are committed to offering our customers choice but also carried out 157 audits across China, India and the Far recognise that we have a responsibility to ensure we sell East.
This year, we held a conference for key Chinese our products in a responsible manner.
Following the suppliers to train them on best practice.
We also work introduction of our Marketing Code of Practice last year, with key suppliers on specific issues, for example health we have trained our buyers on the Code and how it and safety.
See the Corporate Responsibility Report for should influence their day-to-day work and be more information.
considered in all aspects of promotional activity, marketing and advertising.
Engaging Uk suppliers As many of our UK suppliers also source components forest sourcing from around the world, our UK-based compliance team It is our long-term aim that all virgin i. e. non-recycled have been working with key UK own-brand suppliers this material used in our products should come from known, year to ensure they have robust systems in place to audit legal, well-managed and credibly certified forests.
labour standards and forest sourcing practices in their supply base.
WHSmith continues to be a member of the WWF UK Forest Trade Network FTN committed to tracing We know from our own experience that improving timber and paper products back to the forest source labour and forestry standards in the supply chain and to providing an annual report to the FTN.
This years can be challenging and that commitment is required survey covered 90 per cent of all WHSmiths own-brand over the long-term to achieve real improvements.
products, up from 78 per cent last year, including data We will continue to support our suppliers as they from all our key Far East own-brand suppliers: a good follow this path.
achievement as this is a complex region to collect forest sourcing data.
In the year ahead, we aim to maintain Product stewardship or further increase this level of coverage.
As well as working behind the scenes to improve the environmental and social performance of our products, In order to support improvement in our supply chain, we provide UK and Far East suppliers with guidance Certified forests are managed in accordance with the requirements documents explaining the risks around forest sourcing of specific certification bodies setting out the steps that must be taken to ensure the long-term sustainability of the forest.
The certification and our responsible forest sourcing policies.
We also schemes our suppliers use include the Forest Stewardship Council trained our Hong Kong staff so they better understand FSC scheme, Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification the risks and requirements of forest source management, PEFC scheme and Sustainable Forestry Initiative SFI.
The approach taken by each certification scheme varies.
We encourage suppliers to and can work with key suppliers to ensure the paper and move towards certification under the FSC scheme, which is recognised wood products we buy are from well-managed sources.
by WWF as an indicator of a well-managed forest.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20 we want to make it easier for our customers to identify Transport these products on the shelf.
This year, for example, we Further refinements to our ideal delivery frequency continued to increase the number of stationery products schedule, taking account of how full a vehicle is before made from recycled materials, with the introduction making a delivery, and the introduction of double deck of products including new Core Stationery for Back to trailers on trunk routes, have enabled us to deliver further School.
Our Corporate Responsibility team continue improvements in fuel efficiency.
In order to further reduce to work closely with our buyers to look at opportunities emissions, we are upgrading our fleet with cleaner and to expand our recycled product range further.
The range more fuel-efficient vehicles and trialling bio-diesel in of products supporting charity also continues to grow some vehicles.
We will be closely monitoring the efficiency and is covered under Community.
and environmental impact of this trial.
ENvirONmENT CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS PER PACKAGE MOVED WHSmith is committed to reducing the impact our Carbon Dioxide emissions kg business has on the environment, recognising that this is an important issue for our staff and customers and 0.90 also that responsible environmental management also 0.82 0.79 0.76 0.71 makes good business sense.
Environmental management Our approach to managing our environmental impacts is governed by our environmental management system EMS, based on the principles of the  ISO14001 scheme.
This year, we carried out a full review of the EMS, looking at our key environmental 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 impacts, the way we set objectives and targets and how we monitor performance.
reducing waste Energy and emissions The majority of the waste generated by our business We have continued to reduce energy consumption across is cardboard, plastic shrink wrap and damaged stock.
the business in line with our targets.
In September 2004, During the year, we have increased the number of stores we set a target to reduce energy consumption by 5 per cent recycling their waste, however we have more to do to per square foot by August 2008.
We have exceeded this increase the percentage of waste which is recycled and target, delivering a 9 per cent reduction in energy this will be our focus in the year ahead.
We have been working hard in recent years to reduce This year we ran a SWITCH IT OFF!
campaign across the the environmental impact of our carrier bags, signing business to promote awareness of environmental best up to the British Retail Consortiums commitment to practice to deliver reductions in energy consumption reduce the environmental impact of our carrier bags and waste.
We also completed the rollout of Automated by 25 per cent by 2008, with further reductions by 2010.
Meter Readers AMRs across our High Street stores, The new bag designs we introduced in 2006 have delivered allowing us to monitor, locally or centrally, the energy a 28 per cent reduction in the amount of plastic used.
We consumption of an individual store throughout the day also launched a scheme to work with our customers to and take prompt action to address any energy wastage.
reduce carrier bag use in partnership with the Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION Every time a customer chooses not to take a carrier bag KWh per square foot we make a donation to support the Woodland Trusts work.
28.9 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 2006 7 Registered charity number: 294344 Data from previous years re-stated based on more accurate square footage data.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 2 COrPOraTE rESPONSibiLiTy rEviEW fOCUSEd ON THE fUTUrE Accidents and Injuries Our in-store recycling schemes continue to be well supported by our customers.
This year, as part of the 2007 2006 2005 Woodland Trust Christmas Card Recycling Scheme, Major injuries 16 22 22 our customers helped to recycle almost 93m cards, Injuries resulting in over and also gave further support to Tommys, the baby 3 days absence from work 53 48 57 charity, through inkjet cartridge recycling this year 31 per cent of the own-brand inkjet cartridges sold All RIDDORS 69 70 79 were recycled, up from 18 per cent last year.
Accidents reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
WOrkPLaCE Attracting and retaining the best employees is crucial This year, the total number of reportable accidents reduced to the success of our business.
We aim to provide all by 1 per cent, while the number of major accidents reduced our staff with suitable training and the opportunity to by 27 per cent.
This will continue to be an area for focus in develop their career.
We also aim to be clear about what the coming year.
Over 60 per cent of accidents are due to we expect of our staff and that everybody understands slips, trips and manual handling.
During the year over 1,000 our business across all our locations.
managers have been trained with a particular emphasis on these two areas, so they can train their staff.
Living our values This year we took our focus on employee health to a In 2004 we adopted four key business values: new area with the launch of the WHSmith Healthy Customer Focus, Drive for Results, Value Our People Living Campaign, designed to give head office staff and Accountability.
Our head office Values In Practice opportunities for a healthier way of life.
The campaign or VIP scheme, launched in 2004, is an opportunity included personal health screening, clinics to help give for any member of staff to recognise colleagues who up smoking and fitness classes.
The campaign proved set a leading example of demonstrating the values.
popular with our staff and we will look at further similar The scheme continues to be popular, with over 100 head initiatives in the future.
office staff being recognised last year.
We also celebrate the successes and achievements of our store staff, with awards such as Most Improved Store and Store ACCIDENTS BY TYPE 1 SEPT 2006 31 AUG 2007 Manager of the Year presented at an annual conference.
2% 12% 19% Training and developing our staff We have continued to strengthen our training and Manual handling development support to ensure all employees, whether Striking fixed object in head office, stores or distribution centres, can access 9% the appropriate development tools.
Struck by moving falling object This year saw the launch of a new Training and Slip trip fall Development Intranet site, giving our staff the tools they Fall from height 41% need to take an active role in their own career progression.
17% Hand tools other Within the store environment, our Supervisor and Manager Development programmes continue to deliver excellent results, creating a pipeline of talent to fulfil these key roles and giving staff the opportunity to progress through the making our stores accessible for all business.
This year, we have increased the reach of both The business is continuing to work towards improving of these programmes by over 20 per cent, with more the services it provides to disabled customers, in than two thirds of delegates promoted upon completion compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act of the courses.
This includes a rolling programme of capital improvements such as installations of customer maintaining a safe and healthy working environment service lifts, automatic doors and hearing loops: The business also has a properly constituted Health and ongoing training of store staff.
We continue to and Safety Committee that comprises employee subscribe to the website service operated by Direct representatives, management, trade union Enquiries that provides information on the specific representatives and professional safety advisers.
Key facilities at each of our stores and enables us to safety performance indicators are closely monitored review feedback on the quality of service.
We are with trends, performance and recommendations also members of the Employers Forum for Disability.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22 COmmUNiTy Our Glasgow Central Travel store was awarded the Gold With over 16,000 staff at more than 700 UK locations, award for their work with the Erskine Hospital, which WHSmith plays an important role in many communities.
provides nursing and medical care for veterans of the We encourage our employees to be involved within their British Armed Forces.
The Glasgow store team helped local area, with our community investment focusing on out by reading to patients and providing entertainment education and life-long learning.
at Burns Suppers and at Christmas time.
As members of the Per Cent Club, we set an annual Products to promote and support charity and education target to invest at least one per cent of our pre-tax For many years, WHSmith has been supporting good profits in support of charities and community projects.
causes through its charity Christmas card range.
This The chart below gives a breakdown of our community year, our charity Christmas cards raised over 140,000 contributions, using the London Benchmarking Group for five charities chosen by our staff.
Our popular Adopt reporting model to calculate our investment.
a Box range gives customers the opportunity to support a specific charity, for example the care and protection of an endangered animal or contributing to the funds WHSMITH COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2006 07 required to build a school in Africa.
This range raised over 130,000 for our partner charities and also raised 163,500 consumer awareness of the work of these organisations.
WHSmiths support of the National Lottery reached a 600,335 milestone this year, with ticket sales raising over 17m 126,455 for National Lottery good causes.
The National Lottery is currently raising money for the 2012 Olympic Games Cash and Paralympic Games in London, as well as benefiting Gifts in kind good causes in the arts, heritage, health, education, sport, environment, voluntary and charity sectors.
Staff time management costs More information can be found in the CR report, available at www.
Supporting education in partnership with WHSmith Charitable Trust This year, we supported two major education projects: the National Literacy Trust Summer Read developed to encourage children to keep reading during the long Summer holidays and this year reaching 3,500 children in 17 locations around the UK: and a schools programme with Ty Newydd the National Writers Centre for Wales enabling around 1,000 local school children to work alongside some of Wales best known writers to give them the time, space and confidence to develop their creative writing.
Further information on both projects is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
getting involved in local communities around the Uk The WHSmith Community Awards were launched in 2006 and are our way of recognising the contribution teams throughout the business have made to local charities and good causes across the UK.
This year 20 teams received awards of a 500 donation for their charity or school, with Gold, Silver and Bronze prizes for the three teams who made a particularly special contribution.
Entries were up by 50 per cent on last year, indicating that this initiative is helping to raise the profile of community involvement within the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 23
