Corporate Responsibility Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report This is the Companys fifth Corporate Retail and Remote businesses.
An action To ensure that gambling is conducted Responsibility Report: the first was plan detailing work carried out since 2004 in a fair and open way: and contained in Report and Accounts for and revised and updated on an ongoing To protect children and other 2003.
The Group takes its responsibilities basis has been considered by each of the vulnerable persons from being to stakeholders seriously and implements meetings in 2007 together with progress harmed or exploited by gambling.
policies and procedures that meet the on outstanding actions.
The Working During 2007, the Group was heavily legitimate expectations of shareholders, Group acts as a forum for operational involved in consultation with the staff and customers and the wider management to discuss CR issues and Gambling Commission and the DCMS community.
reports are provided by working group both directly and via its trade associations members on CR issues arising from their the ABB and the RGA.
Additionally, the particular areas of responsibility.
Board commitment Group reviewed all relevant policies and The Board is committed to taking steps to procedures in the light of the new CR highlights 2007 improve continuously its practices in the regulations.
All staff were trained in the The year saw the Group further enhance Corporate Responsibility CR area and to new requirements, the levels of content its procedures on core issues, including embedding CR issues into its corporate and detail being tailored to their responsible gambling and staff training governance and operating framework.
and development in readiness for the achieves this aim by directing its focus on commencement of the Gambling Act Crime and disorder the following material issues: 2005 which came into effect on 1 The Group is committed to compliance Compliance with existing laws, September 2007. with regulation to prevent gambling from regulations and codes of conduct being a source of crime or disorder, being 2007 highlights include: relating to responsible gambling: associated with crime or disorder, or being underage gambling and protection A review of all relevant policies and used to support crime.
The following of the vulnerable: prevention of procedures in preparation for the actions have been taken during 2007 to crime and disorder related to implementation of the Gambling Act support this commitment: gambling: and product integrity 2005: issues: A designated Money Laundering A staff training programme under Reporting Officer MLRO takes The ongoing training, development which 100% of staff were trained in responsibility for suspicious activity and motivation of employees to their specific responsibilities under reports made to the Serious retain the widest possible range of the Act and Gambling Commission Organised Crime Agency and its talented staff: codes and conditions: equivalent in offshore jurisdictions in The introduction of an Employee Provision of a safe and healthy respect of the prevention and Assistance Programme offering staff workplace in accordance with detection of money laundering and a 24 hour confidential telephone line relevant legislation: and our obligations under the Proceeds with help on personal, legal and of Crime Act 2002.
From December Providing a competition beating work related issues: 2007 the MLRO will also assume level of customer service.
A confidential group wide employee responsibility for reports made under A non-executive director, Mr Edmonds, survey was implemented providing the Money Laundering Regulations chairs the CR Board Committee and its an opportunity for views to be 2007: other members are Messrs Scott, Spearing expressed on working for the All staff receive training on their and Topping plus the General Counsel & Company: obligations in respect of money Company Secretary.
This Committee An updated ethical purchasing policy laundering reporting and are aware monitors a range of CR issues and there drawn up and agreed: and of the procedures in place for are at least four meetings a year.
escalation of any suspected incidents The successful implementation of the to the MLRO: The CR Committee reports regularly to the Government ban on smoking in all Board and all Board members ensure that LBOs.
We also train our employees to through a process of presentation and adhere to procedures for the discussion with staff, they have been Gambling Act 2005 handling of cash and cash properly briefed and have gained an equivalents: The Gambling Act came into force on appropriate understanding of the CR 1 September 2007 at the same time as The Group is now a member of the issues affecting the Group.
the Gambling Commission assumed its Crimestoppers scheme in its own full role as the central regulatory body for The Committee is assisted by the CR right.
This has allowed us to both gambling.
The Group continues to work Working Group, which also met on four promote the scheme more closely with the Commission in furthering occasions during 2007.
The CR Working effectively and use it in encouraging of the three licensing objectives under the Group is chaired by the General Counsel & the public to provide information in Act, namely: relation to offences committed Company Secretary and comprises the against both staff and property.
functional heads for corporate strategy To prevent gambling from being a Crimestopper leaflets are now and development, human resources, source of crime or disorder, being available in every LBO: property, security and customer service, associated with crime or disorder or together with representatives from the being used to support crime: 31 The Groups Security Department that we continue to adhere to high for a period of no less than 6 months undertakes an ongoing risk industry standards in responsible and up to 5 years.
Customers who assessment process for all our LBOs, wish to resume business with us at gambling.
We are also committed to considering their potential the end of their chosen self-exclusion listening to the views of relevant vulnerability to robberies and period are required to complete a stakeholder groups and have an active violence in the workplace incidents.
further 24-hour cooling off period dialogue with GamCare, the national Appropriate crime prevention before they will be permitted to centre for information, advice and measures are introduced to meet the resume use of our gambling facilities: practical help for anyone with a gambling perceived risk.
During 2007 the number of include the fitting of security screens customers who chose to self-exclude in vulnerable shops, installation of Our commitment to implementing from the Groups services in Retail improved digital closed circuit appropriate procedures within our was 1,563 2006 401 and in television CCTV systems and fitting organisation to deal with problem Remote was 1,826 2006 1,010 : of electronic and magnetic door gambling and to encourage responsible locks to staff areas.
In the event of an We provide a facility for telephone gambling is paramount.
The following incident occurring, affected shops and internet customers to limit the actions have been taken during 2007 to are reassessed by the Security amounts they are able to deposit support this commitment: Department and steps taken to with us in any 24-hour period.
Once We are a major contributor to the minimise further risk, where set, a deposit limit can only be Responsibility in Gambling Trust appropriate.
We liaise closely with a increased after a 24-hour cooling off RIGT.
RIGT aims to provide support number of local authority period: to persons who experience problems environmental health departments, Although there is no one set of with their gambling and their local authority licensing officers and behaviours definitively identifying dependents, to educate vulnerable police crime prevention officers: and customers with gambling problems, persons about the risk of gambling We provide the Gambling the Group encourages its employees and to conduct research into the best Commission with information we to use their experience and to be ways of providing that support and suspect may relate to the aware of customers whose behaviour education: commission of an offence under the may indicate problem gambling.
We Gambling Act 2005 or a breach of the Information on the tools available to have procedures in place to escalate Commissions licence conditions and customers to monitor or control their any concerns and to consider codes of practice and with any gambling is available through whether or not it is appropriate to information we suspect may lead to leaflets on display in our LBOs or at initiate interaction with a customer.
the making by the Commission of an racetracks, via our operational When interaction does take place the order to void a bet.
The Group cocustomer will be provided with websites and via our customer operates with the ABB on integrity contact details of a gambling charity services department.
We also provide issues and also provides information and with detailed information on the information to customers relatives on any suspicious transactions tools available to control their and friends who may approach us directly to those sporting authorities gambling behaviour.
The Group asking for help: named under Schedule 6 Part 3 of provides customers with the We use clear notices in our LBOs and the Act.
information required to enable them on gambling websites stating that to make informed decisions about Responsible and underage gambling the minimum age to use the facilities their level of gambling but does not Gambling is an exciting form of is 18.
In our LBOs and on racetracks take those decisions on the entertainment that can be experienced in we have adopted a Think 21 customers behalf: a range of environments with the Group, approach which requires our staff to The Group takes particular care not namely our LBOs, on racetracks, through seek proof of age from any customer to target advertising at people under the internet and by telephone.
Whilst, for who appears to them to be under 21. the age of 18.
All our advertising is In the UK and, where publicly most customers, gambling is an enjoyable carefully considered in light of the available, overseas, we use an leisure activity, for a very small number Gambling Commissions licensing external agency to verify the ages of there can be problems and gambling can objectives, the specific requirements customers opening new internet or cease to be fun.
of the Gambling Commissions telephone accounts using deposit licence conditions and codes of The Group encourages a socially methods that may be available to practice and the Committee of responsible attitude within the betting under 18s.
All parts of the business Advertising Practice and Broadcast and gaming industry and within our own have established procedures to be codes.
In addition, we adhere to an organisation.
We are committed to followed in the event that we believe industry code of practice designed to protecting children and the vulnerable that a customer may be under the promote socially responsible from being harmed or exploited by age of 18: advertising and the RIGTs gamble gambling.
The We provide a facility for individuals We are working closely with the Gambling advertising agencies we use are fully to self-exclude themselves from briefed on our responsible gambling Commission in the UK and our offshore identified licensed betting offices requirements: regulators in Gibraltar and Malta to ensure and telephone and internet accounts 32 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate Responsibility Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The Group does not enter into individuals throughout their career to Area staff councils, chaired by the contracts of employment with any enable employees to maintain and area operations manager, meet six individual under the age of 18: and improve standards of performance, deal times per year and comprise one effectively with any changes to the work cleaner or one customer service All the Group employees receive assistant and one shop manager or environment and to develop their abilities training giving them an overall deputy manager per district: and realise their full potential.
Training awareness of our commitment to specifically related to the implementation social responsibility and the detailed Regional staff councils, chaired by of the Gambling Act was received by procedural knowledge appropriate the regional operations controller, 100% of staff during 2007. to their specific business role.
We will meet three times per year and continue to monitor best practice in comprise one customer service The performance of the management the area of responsible gambling as assistant or cleaner and one shop population is reviewed via the Group it develops and will review our manager or deputy manager per wide performance management process.
policies and procedures on a regular area: and This process identifies specific individual basis in the light of guidance from development needs and provides A national staff council, chaired by regulators, gambling charities and evidence of exceptional performance the Retail Operations Director, meets our own practical experience.
when considering above standard pay three times per year and includes awards.
one customer service assistant or Employees cleaner and one shop manager or In addition, for those who are seen as The Groups success is dependent on its deputy manager per region, the having the potential to succeed into Group HR director, the head of retail employees and it is committed to high senior management and leadership roles HR along with an operations standards of employment practice.
The in the future, the performance controller, an area operations Group rewards individuals fairly and is management process forms the basis of manager and a district operations committed to providing equality of the application to the Talent Board.
opportunity, training and development successful in their application these and a safe workplace.
All staff council representatives receive people are entered into the Group wide talent pool.
The talent pool provides the specialist training and are allowed six A comprehensive set of human resources individuals for the internal succession consultation days a year to talk to the policies are in place including documents process.
people they represent and to prepare for covering health and safety including meetings.
There is also a staff council in The average length of service across the specific policies on stress management place for the major administrative centre Group is 5 years and 4 months 2006 and smoking, equal opportunities and incorporating the internet, telebetting and 6 years whilst LBO managers average harassment, disability, flexible working, administrative employers.
This was length of service is 13 years and 1 month training and development, the acceptance relaunched in 2007 as another outcome 2006 12 years and 9 months.
of gifts and hospitality, and whistle from the employee engagement survey blowing.
These are communicated to Communication replacing the former staff committee, and employees as appropriate.
The Group places considerable value on follows a similar format to that which has Equal opportunities the involvement of its employees and is proved successful in Retail.
committed to providing effective The Group is committed to equal Sharesave communication on matters which may opportunities in the workplace in terms of affect staff, and more generally, on the On an annual basis since the Groups selection, promotion, training and development and performance of the flotation in 2002 employees with development.
minimum service of one year have been communicated to Group employees and able to participate in the Group Sharesave there are clear lines of responsibility In 2007, employees participated in a scheme.
The 2007 scheme attracted 1,376 regarding monitoring their effectiveness, Group wide engagement survey in which staff savers.
implementation and communication to they were able to express their views staff.
about working for William Hill.
Based on Health and safety the feedback we have put greater The Groups current workforce is 57% emphasis on our two-way communication A copy of the Groups health and safety female 2006 59% and 43% male 2006 processes and provided greater clarity and policy is available at 41%.
understanding around the business goal www.
A Health and Training and development for all employees.
Safety Committee meets regularly to The Group is committed to investing in review compliance with applicable health The Group magazine, Will2Win, has been the training and development of all its and safety legislation and regulation, to circulated to all employees on a biemployees.
The Group provides initial keep up to date with best practice and to monthly basis throughout the period.
The induction training at the commencement review and maintain compliance with magazine invites staff feedback and is of employment including training on health and safety procedures.
The designed to appeal to a broad readership responsible and underage gambling Committee includes senior managers base.
The staff council system operates in supported, where necessary, by specific from the Groups human resources, the retail business to give a voice to all skills training relevant to their job.
Further security, property and company secretarial staff, the particular features are as follows: training and development is provided to departments, together with 33 representatives of operational Compliance with environmental laws progress in this area in 2008. management.
An external health and and regulations: During 2007 the Group worked with the safety consultant advises the Committee.
Minimising waste by the promotion Carbon Trust on an environmental review of recycling practices and re-use of Staff are provided with information and and received its recommendations.
materials as opposed to disposal, training on health and safety issues as Historically, the Group have found it where this is practicable: part of their induction and on an ongoing difficult to establish accurate utility basis.
Risk assessments are undertaken consumption data covering all its 2000 Efficient use of energy and water and and the Group monitors the application plus premises.
An exercise by which investigating ways of reducing and understanding of safety instructions quarterly meter readings were taken at a consumption in this area: and through a system of safety audits, Health sample of representative Group premises Raising awareness of environmental and Safety Co-ordinators and the Health throughout the UK was carried out during issues within the Group.
Such base-line data will inform future policy.
During 2007, the Group The Group is part of the FTSE4 Good obtained quotations for green and Index Series.
Human Rights Policy reusable electricity and has now taken out The Group is committed to undertaking The Groups Property Department takes a new green energy supplier for the entire its operations in a way, which respects primary responsibility for identifying LBO estate.
individuals human rights and treats issues and opportunities within the individuals with dignity and respect.
Access to services Groups LBO estate and the following action has been taken: Customers with disabilities have a right of We support the basic principles described access to the Groups services.
Accessibility in the UN Global Compact derived from High frequency light fittings are issues are taken into account in the principles in the Universal Declaration specified in all new development and accordance with appropriate codes of refurbishment projects thereby of Human Rights and this policy sets out practice when opening and refitting the reducing the number of lamps our approach as it relates to our Groups LBOs, and a combination of requiring disposal: workforce: ramps, stair lifts, disabled toilets and The Group is fully compliant with all We will not employ individuals who induction loops for the hard of hearing current legislative guidelines are under 18 years of age: are fitted, where appropriate.
In addition, regarding the disposal of hazardous services offered in the LBOs can be We will not use forced or compulsory waste and complies with the new accessed on the internet or via the labour: Waste, Electrical and Electronic telephone.
Details of all of these services Equipment WEEE Directive which Working hours will comply with can be obtained from the Group was introduced in 2007: relevant laws and regulations: Customer Helpline.
Air-conditioning and fascia lighting We will offer wages and benefits The Group is currently implementing a are controlled by time clocks to which are consistent with relevant new platform for its online services.
Care ensure efficient use of energy: laws and industry standards: is being taken to ensure that the final Electrostatic air cleaners are installed We will respect the right of application reaches single A compliance in over 80% of the Groups LBOs: individuals to freedom of association status with the Disability Discrimination and collective bargaining: Act as a minimum.
New style fascias continue to be rolled out as LBOs are upgraded We are committed to safe and which will reduce electricity healthy working conditions for our Suppliers consumption: employees: and The Group recognises that it has a More energy efficient inverter air responsibility to ensure its purchasing We are committed to diversity in the conditioning units are being installed practices are conducted in a manner that working environment and will not on new projects and when ensures compliance with good labour and tolerate harassment, discrimination replacements are required: and environmental standards within their or victimisation in the workplace.
Water management systems for toilet Environment facilities continue to be rolled out to Major suppliers are and will be asked to reduce water consumption and an agree to commit to continuous A copy of the Groups environmental increasing proportion of the LBO improvement towards the following policy is available at estate is fitted with water meters.
specified standards, both within their own www.
As a retail and companies and those of their suppliers: service organisation, the Groups main Facilities for recycling paper and toner impact on the environment is through the cartridges are in place at the Groups head Support and act in a manner buildings the Group operates and the office and regional office buildings.
The consistent with the principles in the resources used by staff in their day-to-day UN Declaration of Human Rights: Group has been unable to establish an work.
The Groups environmental practices energy and cost efficient method of Ensure that all employment laws reflect the Groups business operations, recycling from its Retail establishments.
within the country of operation are and its main risks and interactions with the Possible solutions have been considered adhered to: environment, and are largely focussed on: during the year and the Group is keen to 34 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate Responsibility Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 No children are employed within the 1 September 2007.
The Group endeavours by seeking to support the communities in supply chain that is below the local to resolve all betting disputes in a fair, which the Group operates through legal minimum age: consistent and equitable manner.
charitable donations and other relevant However, if these are unable to be payments.
Employees wages and benefits meet resolved to the customers satisfaction the local industry benchmarks and Levies customer is entitled to refer the matter to national minimum requirements: The Group supports horse racing via the the Independent Betting Adjudication statutory levy and greyhound racing via Operate a comprehensive policy of Service IBAS.
The Group has agreed to the voluntary donation to the British equal opportunity in employment: abide by any ruling they make.
The sums Ensure compliance with all national During 2007, 274 2006 274 disputes payable for 2007 were 26,590,000 and and local health and safety were referred to IBAS.
These funds are regulations and procedures in the of cases IBAS found in favour of the used by the respective bodies for a wide countries of operation: customer.
variety of purposes including animal Ensure compliance with welfare issues.
From September 2007 gambling environmental laws and regulations: transactions became legally enforceable A budget has been independently and contracts and subject to relevant established for the greyhound stadia to Encourage the development of be used to assist with greyhound welfare consumer contract legislation.
The Group funds an establishment Additionally, the Group anticipates that practices.
which will enable up to 25 dogs to be some customers may contact the housed for up to three months with the Gambling Commission in respect of intention of permanently re-homing disputes.
During 2007 a thorough review Customers and communities them.
Since its opening at the end of of the Groups terms and conditions was Customer service 2005, a number of greyhounds have been undertaken.
It is hoped that the majority A commitment to high standards of successfully re-homed by this facility and of disputes will continue to be customer service and to the fair and open the benefits of retired greyhounds as pets adjudicated on by IBAS, the conduct of its gambling operations is key are actively promoted at the Groups acknowledged industry expert.
success depends on its customers.
Product integrity The Group recognised the depth of public Dedicated customer service departments The Group has a number of products concern surrounding press coverage are in place for both the Retail and the where the outcome of an event is regarding the fate of greyhounds no Remote channels and regular customer determined by a random number longer required for racing.
Every trainer satisfaction surveys are undertaken.
RNGs are administered affiliated to a the Group track is required Service complaints are considered either by external third parties or by the to complete a weekly return listing dogs seriously and consistent, monitored Group itself.
The Group has rigorous available for racing, injured dogs and procedures are in place across the Group.
internal third party procedures to ensure those dogs who have left the trainers that the randomness of its own RNGs is kennels.
Trainers must provide full details During 2007 the Retail business continued certified, game outcomes are fair and with its Competition Beating Service CBS of any individual to whom care of a dog payouts correct, games are free from initiative, the aim of which is to ensure a has been passed.
defects and function to specifications and positive in-shop experience for customers.
Charitable donations that the games are secure and do not CBS has quickly been established as an The Groups charitable donations are compromise either the player or the essential element of the Retail business mainly focussed on organisations involved Group.
The Group continues to work with and the Group believes that it will play a in areas of greatest relevance to the suppliers with the objective of ensuring vital part in the business future success.
The Board has adopted they adopt a high level of fairness testing.
District operations managers review a charitable donations policy stating that performance against CBS standards on a Privacy the major focus of the Groups efforts will monthly basis and agree action plans to The Group has systems in place to protect be in supporting bodies involved in: tackle any issues.
For an external the privacy of information provided by viewpoint on the levels of customer Promoting a responsible approach to customers.
The Group complies with the gambling: undertaking research into service experienced in LBOs, the Group Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data problem gambling: and providing uses a mystery shopper programme Protection Principles set out in that Act in information, advice and help to provided by Retail Eyes, an international the collection and processing of personal those who are at risk or are company specialising in customer service.
A copy of the Groups privacy experiencing difficulties with their policy is available at www.
Our comprehensive betting rules, which gambling: detail the terms and conditions under Greyhound and racehorse welfare: which all transactions placed with the Supporting sports-related and Group are accepted, were reviewed and other bodies during 2007 to ensure they comply with Support to disadvantaged The Group is committed to being a consumer contract law.
Gambling individuals in horse and greyhound responsible corporate citizen and contracts became legally enforceable on racing.
recognises its wider social responsibility 35 The Group is also committed to providing support, wherever possible, to its employees through their own fundraising efforts.
The Group allocates a proportion of its annual charitable donations budget to match funds up to a specified limit raised by employees on local charitable projects.
During 2007 the nominated charities of staff members benefited by 25,000 from the matching scheme with staff endeavours including marathon running and parachute jumps.
On occasion, the Group also supports organisations with whom it does business in their fundraising efforts and in such cases donations may not fall within the donations policy referred to above.
During the period the Group made charitable donations of 581,000 the largest proportion of which was paid to the Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
The Group has established a Charitable Donations Committee, which reviews, on a quarterly basis, requests for charitable donations against the Boards agreed policy.
The Groups policy is not to make political donations.
Certain executives of the Group attended a dinner to celebrate British sporting achievement organised by the Labour Party at a cost of 15,000 during the period.
CR actions for 2008 In 2008, the Group intends to continue to progress those initiatives that are already ongoing and in addition, the Group will concentrate on the following: Enhance recycling possibilities: Circulating a green initiative to all staff: Maintain the current position of fleet cars with low CO2 emissions: Update corporate website on a regular basis: and Working with the Gambling Commission and overseas regulators to ensure we continue to operate to high standards on social responsibility and integrity issues.
36 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
