02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 16 4 07 3:15 pm Page 36 36 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Corporate social responsibility summary Taking Good Care Progress and highlights We are committed to taking good care environmentally, socially and ENVIRONMENT in our business.
We have a clear vision to be the food specialist for Reducing our carbon footprint We have determined the everyone and our goal is to be recognised for building a sustainable Groups carbon footprint, which covers our stores, all transport and business based on trust, loyalty and shared-value attributes.
also our in-house supply chain of manufacturing, processing and In line with our commercial objectives and our vision for the future, packing facilities.
This is being used as a measure of our carbon we have laid out our roadmap for corporate social responsibility emissions for the Group.
Taking 2005 as the baseline, we aim to CSR.
We are reducing our carbon footprint, saving energy and reduce our carbon footprint cumulatively by 36% by 2010.
In the past increasing our transport efficiency: preventing waste, and recycling 12 months we have achieved a 6.6% reduction in our total carbon more.
We are also continuing to invest in more local and sustainable footprint of 90,874 tonnes.
sourcing and enabling our customers to eat healthily, whilst Morrisons carbon footprint continuing to ensure a wide choice of quality, fresh, affordable foods.
A summary of our approach and activities follows.
For more detail, 1,283,050 2006 our CSR Report can be found at www.
co. uk 1,373,924 2005 Managing corporate social responsibility Responsibility for CSR starts with our Board.
Reporting into the Board is a cross- 0.35m 0.70m 1.05m 1.4m functional Steering Group of senior executives which provides Tonnes of CO emissions 2 leadership and puts ownership of CSR strategy with management at Calculated by the Carbon Trust an operational level.
On-going work is co-ordinated through our CSR programme team, with delivery of activities driven through various To achieve reductions in our emissions, we are continuing to multi-stakeholder Working Groups.
implement a carbon and energy strategy for the business based on: Our CSR strategy Following a review, we have established a CSR measuring and monitoring energy consumption programme that is integrated with our Groups vision to be the food specialist for everyone and aligned to delivering our brand values of implementing good housekeeping policies freshness, service and value.
Our approach is structured around three introducing additional energy saving technologies principal areas, each with defined commitments.
sourcing and generating renewable energy Environment Taking good care of our planet Reduce our carbon footprint Our target is to reduce Group energy use by 8% per square metre Prevent waste sqm by 2010, based on 2005 emissions.
We have achieved a Source responsibly reduction in Carbon Dioxide CO equivalent emissions from energy 2 electricity and gas of 9% over the past year.
Society 1 2005 06 2006 Taking good care of our Be an employer of choice tonnes CO m tonnes CO m 2 2 shoppers, our colleagues Be neighbourly and their communities Encourage a better standard Total CO equivalent 2 of living emissions from energy Business electricity & gas used Taking good care as we go Product stewardship by the Group 764,221 63.1 718,318 57.4 about our business Supply chain integrity Calculated using Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA Satisfaction for all our stakeholders reporting guidelines.
Full details about this programme, together with Key Performance 1 Our reporting method was changed in 2006 to start from the beginning of the Indicators and the targets we are aiming to achieve, can be found in calendar year.
We are accredited for energy efficiency under the Carbon Trusts Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme, which is managed by the National Energy Foundation.
The awarding body is the Energy Institute, which recognises good practice in energy management.
Energy saving technology We specify that contractors for any of our new-build projects must purchase equipment from a government approved energy technology product list.
Everything on this list, from heating and refrigeration equipment to lighting, is designed to significantly reduce or eliminate the production of carbon dioxide.
In 2006 we invested 10m in energy-saving technology.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:38 am Page 37 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 37 Renewable energy We are trialling a micro wind turbine for Reducing packaging Our target is to cut own brand packaging by generating electricity at our Leominster store.
Our objectives are to use less packaging and to avoid of the store, it is being used to run part of the refrigeration plant.
packaging waste being sent to landfill, wherever possible.
We are actively addressing packaging waste by aiming to ensure that we The test was highly commended in the Cooling Industry Awards 2006 use no more packaging material than is necessary to protect and and we are planning to install the same technology at a number of transport the products safely, whilst maintaining the necessary other sites.
Feasibility trials for a larger wind-generated electricity levels of safety, hygiene, quality and consumer acceptance of the system are also underway at our Regional Distribution Centres.
Other initiatives for low carbon energy being explored include Packaging reduction projects such as changes to meat packaging Combined Heat and Power CHP for generating electricity in and sandwich and salad packs and a re-design of our wine carriers, supermarkets, and re-using more heat including that from the together with the introduction of compostable packaging to organic refrigeration system in stores.
Further projects for renewable energy produce lines, are already saving over 30 tonnes of packaging waste are being investigated in conjunction with the Carbon Trust.
Transport efficiency We aim to save 8% of our haulage CO2 Carrier bags Our target is to reduce the environmental impact emissions by 2010 based on 2005 emissions through mileage of standard plastic carrier bag use by 25% by the end of 2008. reductions and increased efficiencies: and to reduce road miles To date we have achieved a 5% reduction in use through an active travelled per pallet of stock by 6% by 2010.
We will also be management policy at our checkouts.
The proportion of recycled improving the space utilisation of our vehicles and increasing plastic used in their production will increase to 25% by 2010. back-haul pallet volumes.
All of our stores have carrier bag recycling units for our customers We are introducing vehicles with cleaner Euro5 engines into our fleet, use, situated in prominent positions in main entrance areas.
rather than the currently required Euro4 and well ahead of these engines becoming a requirement in 2009.
More efficient and cleaner, Sourcing responsibly We seek to ensure that own brand these will help to reduce emissions.
products and the ingredients that go into them are produced as responsibly as possible.
This means applying responsible sourcing Rigorous maintenance schedules, new engineering developments and policies to cover specific raw materials such as timber, palm oil and fuel efficiency programmes, as well as driver training, are also aimed soya: and addressing issues such as sustainable seafood sourcing at helping to reduce the environmental impact of our transport fleet.
Policy information can be found at For example, our new fleet vehicles will have long-drain oils giving www.
co. uk, in the Corporate Social Responsibility section.
100,000km between drain intervals, which will save around 14,000 litres of oil per year.
In addition, we remould 9,000 tyres per year Buying British and local We are committed to providing our saving over 675 tonnes of rubber.
customers with the freshest produce possible throughout the year.
We process 80% of fresh produce and 90% of all the fresh meat we Preventing waste We aim to prevent waste through a sustainable sell through our own facilities.
waste management strategy that focuses on optimisation, reduction, reuse and recycling.
Where disposal is the only practical option We have consistently sought to work with the British farming industry available, we use appropriately licensed waste management facilities to source as much produce as possible from UK farmers and growers.
We buy a large amount of primary produce directly and have many long-standing relationships with farmers and growers, with some All of our stores have the capability to recover cardboard and dating back over 30 years.
We work in collaboration to develop the polythene, which are the largest contributors to waste produced in quality, safety and marketing of fresh foods and to shorten the food store.
Currently 72% of all store generated waste is recovered for chain, by working closely together.
Management initiatives in our stores have seen the recovered tonnage for recycling increase by some 27% this year.
We are also keen supporters of regional producers and have many small and local suppliers, enabling us to tailor local products to By 2010, we aim through a number of initiatives to recycle, recover local stores.
or re-direct 50% of the current waste stream away from landfill, against the 2005 6 baseline.
Recycling Wherever possible, we aim to offer our customers the chance to recycle materials including paper, aluminium, glass, clothing, shoes, books, CDs and plastics.
Other initiatives have included mobile phone recycling in aid of our Charity of the Year last year Breast Cancer Campaign, this year Asthma UK, Christmas card recycling in partnership with the Salvation Army and offering inkjet cartridge recycling through the Woodland Trust, which has so far enabled 900 trees to be planted.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:39 am Page 38 38 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Corporate social responsibility summary continued SOCIETY Extending the Eat Smart range of healthier foods and aiming for an increase of 70% by the end of 2007.
Being an employer of choice Our comprehensive employment policies cover recruitment, selection, remuneration, training, Introducing over 400 new Organic lines including breakfast education, development, retention, performance appraisal and cereals, fruit juices, breads and meats.
We plan to further equality and diversity.
Equal opportunities are open to all.
increase the range by 40% by the end of 2007.
We keep colleagues as fully informed as possible about the activities Introducing a new own brand Free From range for consumers of the business through internal publications, communications with allergies or intolerances, aiming to increase the range by programmes, notice boards, briefings and local, regional and national 30% by the end of 2007. consultative committees and forums.
Putting 5-a-day labelling on a range of fresh produce and foods.
A regular colleague survey is being used to better understand views Supporting and promoting sensible drinking consumer messages, about working for Morrisons, to highlight what needs to be done to in line with Government and medical advice and introducing the make the Group an even better place to work and set a benchmark Task 21 policy.
against which to monitor and measure improvement.
Voluntarily raising the minimum age for the purchase of tobacco We recognise a number of trade unions and have a partnership and knives to 18. agreement with USDAW.
We encourage involvement in the financial performance of the business through profit share and savings-related BUSINESS share option schemes.
Product stewardship We really understand food and know For employee health and well-being, we have our own Occupational where it comes from.
We make it and pack it in our factories and we Health nursing team and employ a full time Medical Advisor.
also make it in our stores.
In addition, we have over 1,800 suppliers Being neighbourly We support communities by giving to good who each also have their own supply chains.
We encourage all our causes that reflect local need.
Every year since 1991 our employees suppliers to follow best practice and to maintain consistently high have voted to choose a Charity of the Year to be the focus of our standards.
This year we are raising money for We ensure that all own brand products meet the highest standards of Asthma UK, following a record-breaking campaign with Breast safety and quality.
From assessing the safety of products prior to sale Cancer Campaign, which raised 1.6 million.
In 2006 07 we also through to auditing our suppliers and checking that finished products raised 274,000 for Children in Need and donated 150,000 to the on our shelves are of great quality, our safety management and Farepak Fund.
quality assurance processes are designed to give our customers Donations to local and national causes, including through Morrisons confidence in all that they buy from us.
Charitable Trust and excluding gifts in kind, totalled 1.2 million.
Supply chain integrity We are committed to working in Encouraging a better standard of living Earning and partnership with our suppliers to ensure an outstanding offer to our maintaining our customers trust in the quality, safety and integrity customers in terms of quality, value, freshness and service.
A good, of the products we sell is our top priority.
Informative food labelling positive relationship with our suppliers is vital to our success and we allows our customers to make choices that are right for them and we aim to be a loyal customer to our suppliers.
Our policy is to be fair pride ourselves on delivering industry-leading standards of customer and honest, being accessible and straightforward in our dealings: and service.
to always deliver what we promise.
We ensure we operate in accordance with the Supermarket Code of Practice and our trading In June 2006 we began introducing new front of pack nutritional teams observe the Morrisons Buyers Charter for fair dealings.
We signposting, based on Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs.
This now expect our suppliers to conform to recognised standards of ethical features on over 2,500 own brand foods and we are aiming for trading and we are extending our site assessments and independent completion across all ranges by March 2008.
Other initiatives third party audits to monitor compliance with our requirements.
have included: Satisfaction for all our stakeholders We aim to engage Reducing salt in hundreds of our own brand products including positively with all stakeholders, responding to them swiftly and cooked meats, poultry, canned and fresh soups, pizzas, sausages efficiently and will be continuing to listen to and talk with our and ready meals.
We aim to meet the Food Standards Agency many stakeholder representatives.
If you would like to find our FSA 2010 targets by 2008. more about our CSR programme and our policies, please visit Removing hydrogenated fats from over 95% of the own brand www.
co. uk or telephone 0845 611 5000 and ask to products where they are present, targeting to achieve 100% speak to our CSR team in the Public Relations Department.
