Corporate social responsibility report WE ARE COMMITTED TO SOUND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Wolseley believes that implementing and developing its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policies is integral to its operations.
We are committed to CSR as a sustainable approach to business that benefits all stakeholders: customers, employees, shareholders, as well as communities in general.
 Business operations Vehicles Business travel 24.2% 29.5% Electricity 0.5% 45.8% Wolseley aims to uphold the highest standards of environmental Carbon CO Emissions 2 and social responsibility.
CSR issues form part of the overall internal Emissions of CO have been reported according to the Greenhouse 2 control process and the safety and well-being of Wolseleys Gas Protocol, which was jointly developed by the World Business employees are paramount.
The Company is a constituent member Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, Institute.
The protocol differentiates between emissions for which designed to measure the performance of companies that meet businesses are directly responsible, indirect emissions caused in globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
the generation of supplied electricity and all other indirect emissions both upstream and downstream.
As it is impossible to know or This year, in addition to other relevant information, the Group control the negligible downstream emissions generated when is reporting for the first time on its carbon CO emissions, products sold by the Group are used, they have been excluded 2 management of waste and use of water.
A common platform from this report.
Similarly, reporting on the upstream emissions of has been established in order that such environmental information our businesses would currently rely heavily on estimates and, as a from the Groups diverse operations can be measured and reviewed result, they have also been excluded from this analysis.
However, on a regular and consistent basis.
given the nature of our operations, the Group does believe that it is appropriate to report on the emissions from third-party provided We are continuing to develop systems which will enable and transportation.
enhance CSR reporting across all of the Groups businesses including in relation to CO emissions, waste management and CO emissions Direct impact 2 2 Absolute, the use of water.
Data source tonnes and calculation Source Definition methods FY 2007 Health, safety and environment Wolseley operates a largely decentralised structure and one of the Business Emissions from Yearly fuel key drivers of the Groups success has been the high degree of operations utility boilers consumption collected from autonomy which is afforded to local managements, allowing each fuel bills 120,601 to serve their markets in the manner most suited to their business.
Within this structure, the Board has set down a number of health, Vehicle fuel Emissions from Expense claims and safety and environmental principles with which all the Groups vehicle use recorded mileage 228,470 businesses are required to comply.
Environmental principles include Total 349,071 the integration of environmental management into business operations, a commitment to prevent pollution and comply with CO emissions Indirect impact local environmental legislation and ensuring proper communication 2 Absolute, Data source with employees on environmental matters.
Health and safety tonnes and calculation principles include the prohibition of substance abuse, fleet Source Definition methods FY 2007 maintenance in compliance with local legislation, the provision and Electricity Directly purchased Yearly consumption use of protective clothing and apparatus and full safety training for electricity, which of directly purchased all employees.
generates electricity in KWh, greenhouse gases converted according Environment Management Systems including CO to country specific 2 Our products impact the environment at every stage of their emissions guidelines 147,455 life cycle, from the sourcing of materials through to their use and disposal.
Business Third-party Recorded miles travel provided transport converted according Wolseleys aim is to continue to make improvements in air and rail to DEFRA emission environmental performance through the efficient use of energy, factors 2,386 water and packaging and it has established systems to enable Total 149,841 it to measure and set targets to reduce environmental impacts throughout the Group.
The tables above comprise CO emissions data captured from 2 businesses representing 63.3 per cent of Group turnover for the This year, following the continued development of its Environmental year ended 31 July 2007.
Management System, Wolseley UK has attained ISO 14001 accreditation in a further eight branches, bringing the total to 11 accredited branches.
Corporate social responsibility report 45 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Hazardouswaste 1.5%0.7% Landfill Recycled Incinerated 97.8% In total, the representative Group businesses within this report emitted Centres RDCs began in February 2007 and the company has a total of 498,912 tonnes of CO in the year ended 31 July 2007. set a target of decreasing waste to landfill by 5 per cent and 2 Approximately 70.0 per cent of the CO emissions were as a result increasing recycling by 5 per cent across the RDC network year 2 of direct emissions from fossil-fuel consumption of which 34.6 per cent on year.
All RDCs are now recycling cardboard and plastic and were related to business operations and 65.4 per cent were related this is being monitored on a monthly basis.
As part of the to vehicle fuel use.
Wolseley is committed to taking all practicable objectives for 2007 08, Wolseley UK is working with a number steps to reduce its carbon footprint across the Group.
of its largest suppliers to reduce the quantity and improve the environmental quality of packaging used in its supply chain with Waste Management the aim of minimising the environmental impact of waste for its Wolseley recognises its responsibility to measure and minimise business and customers.
the waste generated by its business activities.
Waste is divided into hazardous and non-hazardous, with hazardous waste As required by respective domestic legislation, Wolseley UK and containing properties which may render it harmful to human health Brossette both comply with the European Waste Electrical and or the environment and non-hazardous waste comprising general Electronic Equipment Directive the WEEE Directive regarding office waste such as paper, card, wood, plastics and metals.
Brossette has also installed containers at All of the Groups businesses comply with their applicable waste each of its branches for the collection of plastic, paper, wood and management regulations.
AG is a licensed member of the Abfallrecycling Austria AG ARA and complies with all Austrian legislation with Hazardous waste respect to waste collection and disposal and is subject to regular Absolute, Data source ARA audits.
tonnes and calculation Definition methods FY 2007 In Ireland, Heatmerchants backhauls all of its waste paper, Landfill Hazardous waste Volume per annum cardboard, wood pallets and plastic from its branches back to sent to landfill converted to tonnes 29 its distribution centre for recycling.
During the year, over 2,800 tonnes of such material was recycled, resulting in cost savings Recycled Hazardous waste Volume per annum of a500,000.
Beijer in Sweden, a part of DT Group DT, has recycled converted to tonnes 3,838 ecycled 4,000 tonnes of waste, saving it from landfill, this year r Incinerated Hazardous waste Volume per annum which resulted in cost savings of approximately 200,000. incinerated converted to tonnes 59 Total 3,926 Stock Building Supply Stock employs a process at its operational locations to identify recycling opportunities and waste stream reduction, focused on removing solid wastes and recyclable Non-hazardous waste Absolute, material in amounts which maximise the tonnage per haul, thereby Data source tonnes and calculation minimising environmental impact, expense and the number of hauls Definition methods FY 2007 needed to service its operations.
Landfill General office Volume per annum waste sent to landfill converted to tonnes 88,266 Water Use Wolseley recognises that, irrespective of geography, water can Incinerated General office Volume per annum be a scarce resource.
Steps have been taken during the year waste incinerated converted to tonnes 5,240 to measure water consumption throughout the Group to enable Recycled General office Volume per annum the appropriate goals to be set for greater water efficiency.
waste recycled converted to tonnes 38,161 Reused General office Volume per annum Supplied water use Indirect impact Absolute, waste reused converted to tonnes 9,514 Data source 3 m and calculation Total 141,181 Definition methods FY 2007 Supplied Consumption Yearly consumption The tables above comprise waste data captured from businesses water of piped water.
of supplied representing 63.0 per cent of Group turnover for the year ended No water is directly water 31 July 2007. abstracted by the Group 1,100,305 Wolseley UK is continuing to implement initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle its waste through waste segregation facilities The table above comprises water consumption data captured from such as skips, wheelie bins and rear-end loader bins.
A project businesses representing 64.5 per cent of Group turnover for the to recycle waste from branches back to the Regional Distribution year ended 31 July 2007.
46 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Non-hazardouswaste Landfill 6.8% Incinerated Recycled Reused 27.0% 62.5% 3.7% Energy Efficiency Wolseley engages with its suppliers and seeks information as to In the year ended 31 July 2007, Ferguson installed high efficiency the source of all forest products in order to evaluate this information heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment and controls, against its policies.
Working with and encouraging suppliers who and energy efficient fluorescent lights in its warehouses which offer support credible certification, Wolseley is committed to best up to 50 per cent greater energy efficiency than standard lamps.
practice and to reviewing and reporting progress in this area.
The Wolseley UK standard fit-out specification for its warehouses and distribution centres incorporates energy saving measures The Group continues to work with local forest management including low energy lighting, high frequency lamps and lighting organisations and certification agencies to increase the amount controls.
This area of energy efficiency is constantly being reviewed of certified timber it purchases and just over 80 per cent of the to ensure the specification reflects current developments and best 8,464,000 cubic metres of timber purchased in the year was from practice in this area.
Unless the appropriate permits are in place, none of the Groups businesses purchase any species of timber included Environmental Opportunities in any of the Appendices to the Convention on International Trade Wolseley UKs Sustainable Building Centre SBC, a 6,800 square in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, which identify foot interactive showcase for renewable and sustainable building threatened species of trees.
All of the Groups businesses have materials, is presently under construction and is scheduled to be engaged with their suppliers of Indonesian plywood to ensure that fully operational by April 2008.
The building features the best any illegal logging is excluded from the supply chain.
available sustainable construction products selected from a bespoke range provided through Wolseley UK trading brands.
The For the fourth consecutive year, Stock purchased 90 per cent of range, which has been established since the beginning of 2007, is its timber from suppliers certified by recognised sustainable forestry already proving attractive to many Wolseley customers in a diverse agencies, such as the American Forest Products Association and range of business segments.
Wolseley UK intends that the SBC will the Canadian Standards Association.
Less than 0.05 per cent of become the leading UK industry resource for sustainable building the 5,467,000 cubic metres of timber purchased by Stock during products and supporting information, promoting sustainable the year consisted of Lauan plywood.
Wolseley UK continues to work with the UK Timber Trade Federation The SBC project has firmly established Wolseley UK as a leader to assess suppliers of timber products to ensure the legal and within the sustainable building sector in the UK.
Customer demand sustainable status of timber supplied, particularly if it is sourced for sustainable materials will be supported as regulatory standards from Asia Pacific, South America or West Africa.
During the year, such as the UK Code for Sustainable Homes, the European 65 per cent of Wolseley UKs 357,000 cubic metres of timber Performance of Buildings Directive and the Merton Rule, the purchased consisted of softwood and 30 per cent consisted of planning policy which requires the use of renewable energy onsite products such as plywood.
Build Center is now the UKs leading to reduce annual carbon dioxide emissions in the built environment, distributor of Forest Stewardship Council FSC approved plywood.
Wolseley UK will continue to monitor product advances and process changes in order to maintain excellence PB & M SA PBM works with its suppliers to ensure that timber in the growing sustainable construction sector.
is sourced from sustainable forests which have been certified by recognised forestry associations promoting sustainable forestry Timber management.
During the year, 76 per cent of the 925,000 cubic Responsible sourcing of raw timber products contributes metres of timber purchased by PBM was sourced from Russia, to the success of sustainable forestry.
Finland, Germany and France and less than 1 per cent consisted of plywood sourced from Indonesia under permit.
As part of the ongoing development of our CSR strategy, Wolseley continues to recognise the importance of sustainable timber This year, in recognition of its forestry and wood production sourcing and the elimination of illegally logged timber from the management, PBM became the first trading company in France supply chain and has well established policies in this area.
to be awarded a Two Leaf rating from Le Commerce du Bois, Wolseley is committed to the responsible purchasing of forest the French timber trade federation, which has developed a code products from forests certified as well managed.
This commitment of practice that sets standards for timber sourcing, purchasing is set out in a Global Timber Policy and will be realised through and distribution throughout France.
a stepwise approach that utilises the best available techniques and information.
DT, which is a member of the Danish timber trade federation, purchased most of its softwood from local forests, with small Wolseley aims to source timber products from forests or forest amounts coming from Chile, China and the Baltic States.
product suppliers that comply with all relevant legislation in the Less than 1 per cent of the 1,453,000 cubic metres of timber country of origin relating to trade in forest products and trade purchased by DT during the year comprised hardwood sourced from protected areas, parks or similar areas.
We also aim to source from local wholesalers, Indonesia and Ivory Coast.
such products from forest areas or regions that are not subject to censure under the United Nations resolutions including number 2001 1343.
Corporate social responsibility report 47 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 130% Increase of chain of custody volumes in Build Center Heatmerchants in Ireland purchased 247,000 cubic metres Transport of timber in the year, of which 18,000 cubic metres consisted We continually seek ways to reduce our environmental of hardwood, all of which was sourced from certified forests or footprint.
suppliers free of UN censure.
Last year, the Group introduced a common standard for transport Chain of custody management systems across its operations.
This continues to be Wolseley believes that whilst sustainable sourcing is vital, it is also implemented and will enable real-time transport management key that illegal timber be eliminated from the supply chain, from the systems to improve route planning and resource scheduling across forest of origin to the end user.
different business sectors and between multiple sites.
This will help to ensure increased efficiency in the utilisation of commercial vehicles.
The chain of custody scheme, introduced in Build Center in the UK in 2003, now covers 3,660 products and certification has been The Group continues to focus on improving fuel consumption achieved at a further 85 branches during the year exceeding the across its primary distribution fleet, switching fuels where viable target of 59 branches.
Products within the chain of custody and replacing old vehicles with more fuel efficient models.
scheme have been independently audited and approved by, or on behalf of, both the FSC and Programme for the Endorsement Wolseley UK has continued to improve its transport fleet utilisation of Forest Certification PEFC.
The scheme provides evidence that by focusing on efficient route planning to minimise delivery journeys products originate from certified, well-managed forests at any point and the number of kilometres travelled.
The target set in 2005 to in the supply chain, giving our customers an independent guarantee reduce overall kilometres travelled by eight per cent remains on that the timber we are supplying is from a legal and sustainable track and is expected to be achieved by the end of July 2008. forest source.
Ferguson and Stock are continually evaluating and optimising all Some 68 per cent of the timber purchased by Wolseley UK during modes of transportation to manage costs and reduce miles driven the year was controlled within the chain of custody scheme, an by all freight carriers.
The ability to measure the mileage reduction increase of over 130 per cent from 2006. and consequent fuel savings as a result of this optimisation is currently being developed and should be fully established during 2008.
During the year, chain of custody certification was awarded to PBMs softwood import business, following such certification of its Stock is in the process of testing new technology that treats friction hardwood business and its garden products business in 2003.
In causing parts in engines and transmissions.
First results have line with its targets, 100 per cent of PBMs timber purchased during shown a reduction in emissions of 14 per cent and increased the year had either FSC or PEFC chain of custody certification.
fuel economy of 12 per cent in the tested vehicles.
It is planned to continue to test a larger sample of the fleet and if similar results Stock does not have a formal chain of custody procedure for its are observed, consideration will be given to the introduction of this timber as it relies upon the chain of custody procedures in place technology across the fleet.
However, the vast majority of purchases made by Stock are from suppliers who hold recognised certifications and All new cars purchased by Brossette in France and Tobler in whose harvests are strictly controlled by US and Canadian Federal Switzerland are low-emission vehicles.
New trucks purchased and State law.
Stock maintains an extensive dialogue with its by Mart in Hungary comply to the EUR04 standard as do all suppliers regarding sustainability issues, including chain of custody.
new trucks purchased by Manzardo in Italy.
Accreditations during the year Wolseley UK attained ISO 14001 accreditation in a further eight branches.
Mart in Hungary and Cesaro in the Czech Republic continued ISO 9001 accreditation for their quality management processes.
48 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Health and safety In North America, Ferguson and Stock have continued to work The Company has developed a health and safety framework together to enhance their health and safety performance including which requires local management to have suitable procedures in the incidence of traffic accidents.
This has been driven, through place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations the North American safety committee, by the desire to reduce the and best practices promoted by the Group.
An important objective number of work-related injuries and the resulting consequences that for the Group is to achieve work environments free from injury and such events have on other employees and the business.
This has illness attained as a direct result of improvements in our health and produced significant improvements in the longer-term trends in both safety performance.
companies health and safety records.
Of those employees who have been injured at work during the year, approximately 98 per cent Wolseley UK has established an executive safety steering group, have returned to work either on modified duty or to their original jobs supported by its health and safety department, comprising senior and the costs, including those associated with medical and other managers and local board directors.
The steering group reviews expenses for claims for workers compensation, were reduced by the UK businesses performance in health and safety matters, some $4 million.
This project has now been extended to include promotes good practice and ensures appropriate consultation Wolseley Canada.
It is proposed to develop further initiatives within on any intended changes to its health and safety management the Groups European businesses applying the experience achieved systems.
All branch and area managers are trained in this area in North America as appropriate.
and all employees are trained to complete their daily tasks in a safe manner.
Wolseley UK has also introduced new workplace Wolseley North America held a Winning Ideas in Safety & Health health and safety initiatives including a new health and safety W. I. S. H. competition during the year for its employees across employee handbook and improved in-branch communications.
each of its businesses in the USA and Canada.
This helped to These initiatives support the companys Dont Walk By initiative, enforce its commitment to strengthening the safety culture across encouraging pro-active responses from employees in relation all of the Group businesses, with the aim of promoting safety as to all health and safety matters.
an underlying theme in the way they operate each day.
During the year, Wolseley UK introduced two new awards for its Stock continues to operate and develop its Driven to Safety operations.
The companys Health and Safety Awards incorporate programme which was first introduced in 2005.
This is a proactive five separate categories for various achievements in this field safe driver training programme, where every driver is trained in which are awarded to the highest performing branch locations a variety of ways to recognise hazardous conditions, plan the and promote a positive attitude towards occupational health and appropriate response and take decisive action.
As a result of this safety.
The Commercial Driver of the Year Award aims to reinforce programme, Stock was recognised for its outstanding results in Wolseleys commitment to road safety, helping to promote the reducing its vehicle insurance claims by being presented this year highest standards of driving amongst Wolseley UKs commercial with Liberty Mutuals Gold Fleet Safety Award.
The Driven to Safety fleet.
The first of these annual events was held in October 2006. initiative was also implemented by Ferguson during the year.
In France, Brossette has a central health and safety committee, Ferguson has continued to promote its Customer CARE which oversees individual branch health and safety committees.
Customers and Associates Require Excellence programme which Representatives of Brossette and its employees sit on each local is intended to symbolise Fergusons determination to achieve a committee, together with an occupational health doctor.
All new culture of excellence throughout the organisation.
The programme employees and managers receive appropriate induction and includes two goals aimed at communicating the importance of training, including matters of health and safety.
PBM also seeks safety and quality and to promote a safe working environment to increase awareness of the importance of health and safety for all of its employees.
throughout its business by reinforcing the responsibility of each of its employees and their role in maintaining and improving health In common with Mart in Hungary which obtained its accreditation and safety standards.
During the year, a Wolseley France health in 1997, Cesaro in the Czech Republic has also continued to and safety committee was established and a number of initiatives demonstrate its commitment to customer care during the year to promote enhanced health and safety performance are being following its achievement of ISO 9001 accreditation for its quality implemented across the business.
The continued accreditations reflect the companies commitment to meet applicable regulatory Wolseley Canada was awarded a Work Safe Alberta Best Safety requirements and exceed customer quality expectations through Performer Award from the Province of Alberta during the year.
This is awarded to those companies that have a 40 per cent lower than industry average of disabling injuries, no work-related fatalities in the previous three years, no outstanding compliance orders under Albertas Occupational Health and Safety legislation and no pending prosecutions under the legislation.
Corporate social responsibility report 49 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14m Spent on employee training during the year Acquisitions The workplace A great deal of importance is placed on environmental matters One of the Boards objectives is to ensure that Wolseley provides during the due diligence process for acquisitions.
Where appropriate, a workplace environment that encourages and supports all employees external environmental consultants review and assess environmental to achieve their best personal performance.
Wolseley continues risks to which the Group could potentially become exposed.
to operate, through its International Leadership Development Depending upon the type of proposed acquisition, this assessment Programme, a global training programme designed to develop could include reviews of environmental management systems, and improve the management and leadership skills of its senior and compliance with laws and regulations and the respect and care high potential managers.
To date, over 700 employees have attended shown for the environment.
A review of health and safety Wolseley management training programmes and 30 senior executives compliance and processes is also carried out as part of due have attended leadership development programmes at Harvard and diligence.
Dialogue with, and indemnities from, the proposed other universities.
Training programmes for all levels of employee vendors are sought where appropriate.
continue to be a high priority for the Company with over 14 million spent on employee training during the year.
Code of Ethics The Groups Code of Ethics the Code sets out a number of Wolseley UK undertook its second annual company-wide employee fundamental principles which all Group companies and employees survey during the year, inviting employees to suggest areas for are required to follow.
The Code covers many areas including fair improvement and voice any concerns.
Its 2006 survey highlighted competition, compliance with laws, including anti-trust laws, improvements needed in internal communications and, in response, and maintenance of the Groups reputation for integrity, including the company has continued the roll-out of a series of employee a prohibition on bribery and general principles for dealing with engagement initiatives.
Employees are now kept informed and suppliers and authorities.
The Code can be viewed on the involved through a wide range of communication channels, ranging Companys website at www.
com or a printed copy from a regular newsletter to programmes with a strong platform for is available from the Company Secretary.
These include face-to-face meeting forums for all levels of management and employees, as well as the expansion In keeping with our decentralised approach, businesses are of a monthly online chat session, which generated over 2,300 required to adopt their own codes which respect local cultures and questions during the year.
Each session is hosted by a senior businesses but which also set clear standards which are no less manager from Wolseley UK.
Themes and topics that do not receive exacting than those detailed in the Code.
These individual codes sufficient coverage during the online sessions gain a response in are appropriate to the scope of the local operation and endorse the weeks following the live event and all questions and answers existing practices.
All new companies joining the Group are required are posted on the companys intranet to allow employees who to adopt codes of ethics on the same basis as existing businesses.
were not able to join the live event an opportunity to participate.
A Back to the Floor programme involving office-based employees spending time in the branch network has helped to Achievements during the year improve understanding of business operations and the evaluation PBM was the first trading company in France to be awarded and feedback from this has been very encouraging.
This initiative, a Two Leaf rating from Le Commerce du Bois.
as part of a suite of programmes, received external recognition including a Best in Class in the 2006 CiB National Communications Wolseley UK was awarded a Best in Class in the 2006 Excellence Strategy Awards.
CiB National Communications Excellence Strategy Awards.
Stock Building Supply was presented with Liberty Mutuals Gold Fleet Safety Award.
Wolseley UK was awarded the Royal Society of the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award for Occupational Health & Safety.
Wolseley Canada was awarded Work Safe Alberta Best Safety Performer Award.
50 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Community relations The Groups North American businesses continued their support The Group recognises its responsibility to support the for Habitat for Humanity, a non-profit organisation that seeks to communities in which our businesses operate and to act eliminate substandard housing and homelessness.
As part of this as a good corporate citizen.
programme, in excess of $2 million in cash and goods in kind was contributed across North America and a national partnership has Wolseley is a member of Business in the Community in the UK been established whereby branches throughout North America and continues to work with that organisation to help develop our make donations of materials for every Habitat house built.
This is expected to benefit up to 5,000 houses in the next year.
The Groups businesses are involved in a wide range of initiatives Ferguson also donates to ReStores across the USA through both for the benefit of local communities.
product donation and employees volunteer time.
ReStore is a network of building material warehouses that collects donated Wolseley UK is supporting British Gymnastics, the UK national materials from individuals, businesses and building contractors to governing body for the sport, as part of the FTSE-British Olympic be resold to the public for a profit.
The profits made from the sale Association initiative.
As the UK builds up to hosting the Olympic of these materials fund the construction of Habitat for Humanity Games in 2012, the initiative aims to link companies with sports homes across North America.
governing bodies to help improve the effectiveness of their business delivery and performance.
The initial focus of the Donations The Group supports charities relevant to the countries and Wolseley UK-British Gymnastics partnership will be executive level consultation, strategic marketing guidance, commercial proposition locations in which its businesses operate.
These are wide-ranging development, customer research and targeted marketing activities.
and cover health, welfare, education, civic and community Over the coming months and years, it is hoped that many Wolseley projects as well as culture and the arts.
Each year, several hundred donations are made.
Many of our employees in North America UK employees will be able to get involved with the partnership, especially at a local level, where British Gymnastics promotes its make regular contributions to the United Way, an organisation sport at schools and clubs in employees communities.
which distributes funds to charities.
A Give As You Earn Scheme operates in the UK with the assistance of the Charities Aid Foundation which distributes funds to UK charities.
During the Ferguson in the USA actively promotes the education and development of young people in Newport News, where Fergusons year, employees in the UK raised 400,000 for the childrens charity head office is based.
Involvement with organisations such as the NCH by undertaking a Grand Trek.
DT Group in Denmark has Boy Scouts of America, the Boys & Girls Club, Achievable Dream, made significant donations to charities caring for the mentally and physically disabled and other charities including the Red Cross and Preschool Partners and the Rita Welsh Adult Literacy Program emphasise the companys commitment to the development Danish Cancer Society.
Further details of the amount of donations of future community leaders.
Ferguson and Stock also made made during the year are set out on page 54. substantial donations to the Jamestown Foundation, the Virginia State Agency that manages the Jamestown Settlement and Yorktown Victory Center history museums, supporting the acquisition of artefacts, new exhibit features and educational programmes.
Silvan, one of DT Groups subsidiaries in Denmark, has embarked on a programme to encourage the employment of people aged over 50 and receiving unemployment or disability benefit.
The programme offers flexible working hours, practical training with hands-on experience in one of Silvans stores, personal coaching and mentoring and continued personal monitoring with the aim of over 70 per cent of participants obtaining paid employment at the end of the programme.
Corporate social responsibility report 51 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
