Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility I am pleased to report that we have made good progress with our Human Resources Staff Stability CSR activities this year.
These are detailed in our fifth online CSR Woolworths Offices 86% report.
At Woolworths Group plc we aim to ensure that CSR is Woolworths Retail 70% integral to our business agenda.
Through our CSR Committee, Woolworths Distribution 89% which is chaired by the Company Secretary, we are constantly EUK 81% reviewing and considering issues to meet all our legal obligations Our business is built on a core team of dedicated staff with on this front.
But we recognise that being a socially responsible a stable team across all the key areas.
During 2006 07 company is not only a question of legal compliance.
It means all areas have increased stability rates despite a difficult trading environment.
integrating socially responsible behaviour into our core values and into all our business operations, from sourcing our products to serving our customers.
2006 has been a busy year for the business.
Shopping today is a Recycling far cry from the days when Woolworths opened its first UK store in 1909.
With so much flexibility about how and when we shop, multichannel retailing has again been at the forefront of our 19, 1 99 activities.
We launched our Big Red Book in October, allowing customers to order goods and then pick them up from a store tonnes of their choice at their own convenience, or enjoy home delivery.
Of course, innovations like these have an impact on the day-to-day Wherever possible, card and plastic materials, the major work of our colleagues.
Ever mindful of the need to develop our packaging constituents in our business, are taken back colleagues knowledge and skills, we have carried out extensive to our Distribution Centres.
The materials are then baled and passed to recycling businesses for reprocessing.
training programmes throughout the year.
These have equipped During the year ending January 2007, 19,199 tonnes them with the very best customer service skills as well as for new were recycled within Woolworths Group.
This level is regulations such as the introduction of the new age discrimination comparable with previous years.
Turning to the wider environment, the challenge of climate change and what can be done to combat its effects is always in the news.
In 2006 we began an important initiative, working in partnership with the Carbon Trust, to review all energy and carbon Carbon Emissions use issues in our stores.
At Woolworths we like to encourage a from Electricity Usage strong sense of local community.
In many smaller towns, we are tonnes of CO 2 often a key store that a community relies upon.
Once again in 2006 2006 07 90,930 our colleagues, customers and suppliers have given tremendous 2005 06 89,968 support to our charity, Woolworths Kids First.
This has enabled 2004 05 During the year the Groups electricity usage has increased Kids First to donate funds of over 650,000 for children in the UK, by 1.1 per cent.
Electricity usage will form a major part of the review with the Carbon Trust.
A recent initiative has also including 15,000 to the Association of Childrens Hospices.
enabled significant reductions and savings to be achieved through the use of timers on cold drink fridges.
One problem affecting our communities is of particular concern: crime against the retail sector.
This is not just about theft from stores but also includes the graffiti and vandalism that destroys the fabric of a high street and demoralises shoppers and shop staff alike.
The British Retail Consortium suggests that retail crime costs every household in the UK around an extra 90 each year on their shopping bills.
We are determined to fight back and are supporting the BRCs Stop Crime Against Retail campaign.
During 2006 we have continued to promote high ethical and environmental standards in every part of our business.
For a full report on the Groups activities in CSR, please refer to the Companys website.
Alternatively, for a hard copy of the 2007 CSR report please contact the Company Secretary.
Yours sincerely Trevor Bish-Jones Woolworths Group plc Chief Executive Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 27 March 2007 19
