CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility Atkins is committed to being a good neighbour and Development and implementation of a Construction Skills acting responsibly to all our stakeholders.
Every year the Certification Scheme CSCS card test in the UK for Group publishes a Corporate Responsibility CR Report Professionally Qualified Persons PQP simultaneously with the Annual Report.
The CR report Development and implementation of a Middle East and India provides details of our CR strategy and performance.
PQP card test A summary of the key issues and developments during Improvements to our accident near miss reporting system the year are presented here.
Development and pilot of an expanded Director Safety Tour CR MANAGEMENT course within our e-learning portfolio.
The Board sets Group policies on CR.
Our chief executive An important indicator of the Groups performance on is the Board member responsible for CR and for the Groups safety is the Accident Incident Rate AIR, which measures performance, supported by Group-wide frameworks.
the annual number of reportable accidents per 100,000 A common management structure governs quality, health employees.
AIR statistics are measured both for employees and safety and environment QSE.
A director of QSE, and contractors and are divided into office, engineering and reporting to the chief executive, is responsible for Group construction activities in order to prioritise improvement QSE at a corporate level.
Each Atkins business also has programmes for those most at risk.
AIR performance in dedicated QSE representatives to manage issues at a local 2006 07 compared to the previous year and benchmarks level, reporting quarterly.
is shown in the table below: For the first time this year a joint QSE plan has been AIR OFFICE ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION produced by the businesses with guidance from Group QSE: and our QSE policies and minimum requirements have been BENCHMARK 162 417 1,890 defined and communicated in a single, integrated policy STAFF manual, which sets the framework for QSE management 06 07 12 65 995 and supports strategy across the Group.
05 06 104 151 556 CR-related Group policies include quality, health and safety, 04 05 59 235 2,763 the environment, business conduct, data protection, dignity CONTRACTORS and equality at work, employee disclosure whistle-blowing 06 07 382 441 1,221 and the appropriate use of information technology.
These 05 06 0 124 293 are published on the corporate intranet and are provided 04 05 0 124 317 externally on request.
They are regularly reviewed and AIR no.
of accidents per 100,000 staff or contractors updated to reflect changes to legislation, emerging good practice and business needs.
During the year the Health and Safety Executive HSE in the UK made 16 site visits and issued no improvement or prohibition HEALTH AND SAFETY notices.
We have not been prosecuted for any health and safety We have a duty to provide safety leadership across our breaches during the year, other than in connection with range of global services, in addition to complying with ongoing proceedings against two employees in Doha, Qatar local legislation, safety standards or other specific client on charges which we believe have been wrongly brought and requirements.
of which we expect them ultimately to be found innocent.
ENVIRONMENT We work to ensure that the principle The Group promotes sustainability and the reduction of safety leadership is firmly embedded of environmental impact in our designs and we explore in our business opportunities for improvement in all our operations and services.
Our most significant environmental impacts are those that we control and influence through our range of We work to ensure that the principle of safety leadership multinational design and engineering projects.
In addition is firmly embedded in our business, promoting continual to our overall commitment to continually improve our improvement in operational health and safety risk reduction performance and comply with relevant legislation, we aim to: as well as safety in design.
Our Group QSE policy manual describes how our safety values and principles are to be Ensure environmental impact is assessed throughout our applied across all Atkins businesses.
This year we achieved: projects to prevent pollution, minimise impact and consider opportunities for improvement Additional OHSAS 18001 certifications with China receiving its full certification: with only Portugal and Faithful Gould Incorporate sustainability measures into our operations and in the US yet to receive certification services focusing on the specification and use of materials, Release of the Group QSE policy manual energy use, travel impact, waste and recycling.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-FOUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED As an international leader in our field, we believe our Our UK activities received no improvement or prohibition contribution to tackling these issues is an important one.
notices from the Environment Agency or any local authority during their visits to our offices and sites.
We have not been Our successes for the year included: involved in any prosecutions for breach of environmental Continuing the programme of ISO 14001 certification for legislation globally.
non-UK businesses with only Portugal and Faithful Gould in the US yet to receive certification CUSTOMERS Understanding our clients needs and delivering the highest Development of a globally available e-learning module standards of technical expertise, competence and excellence on sustainability in our services are essential to our success.
We take a partnership approach Various local initiatives such as a waste minimisation and to achieving shared aims and forging strong and long-lasting recycling scheme covering over 2,000 employees relationships.
Feedback, review and continual improvement Development of a managers guide for Safety, Health and are central to the process.
Environmental SHE issues in the workplace the House All our certified UK and overseas businesses have continued Managers Toolkit.
to demonstrate their compliance with the requirements of ISO 9001.
95% of our businesses are now certified including The BiE Index, now known as the Environment Index, all of our operations in Europe, the Middle East and China.
benchmarks companies against their peers, and against all It is only our Faithful Gould offices in the US that still companies that participate in the Index, on the basis of their need to gain approval.
environmental performance in key impact areas.
Atkins score Over the year Atkins as a whole, our businesses and improved to 86% in 2006 from 80% in 2005. disciplines, project teams and individuals have won numerous awards from customers and independent We promote sustainability and commentators, endorsing the quality of our work and the reduction of environmental impact our level of customer service.
in our designs COMMUNITY During the year the Group made charitable donations of The Group seeks to mitigate the direct environmental 205,813 2006: 97,534.
The principal beneficiaries of such impact of its operations through measurement of certain donations were the charities RedR, WaterAid and the PSP performance indicators.
The most significant of these are our Association.
A number of groups and individuals throughout CO emissions arising from office accommodation, business 2 the Group also organised and took part in sponsored events travel and non-hazardous waste.
The data in the table below for charitable causes.
is derived only from our UK operations.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-FIVE
