Corporate Responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR WSP MEANS MeeTinG The eXPeCTATionS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACROSS OUR BUSINESS AND IDENTIFYING, MEASURING AND MANAGING OUR POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE SOCIAL, ETHICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS.
our vision Advice to our Clients WSPs vision is to be the outstanding supplier of specialist and The advice that WSP provides its clients is likely to represent integrated services in the built and natural environment.
Sustainability the greatest opportunity for WSP to contribute to sustainable and how we do business is integrally linked to this vision, and is a futures.
We are one of the worlds largest environment and core driver of our business strategy and operations.
energy consulting and engineering design companies, working with Governments, institutions and corporate clients to improve Our high level vision is based on the five core values of Trust, their approach to sustainability.
The engineering design solutions Sustainability, Innovation, Sharing & Supporting and Pride & Passion.
To recommended by our global teams of engineers similarly represent underpin these values in a fast growing business, we constantly review significant potential to reduce the environmental and sustainability at a corporate level what sustainability means across our whole global impact of our clients.
In 2007 we emerged as thought leaders in business.
many aspects of corporate responsibility and have invested in innovation in this arena.
One of our objectives for 2008 is to develop clear sustainability objectives which allow for flexibility of approach across our business, WSP Environment and Energy is one of the most forward thinking but with the intention of ensuring our entire operations deliver to a consultants in its sector.
Our team of 1,100 specialist professionals minimum corporate standard.
These objectives will be in place by Q3 is at the cutting edge of new approaches and new solutions 2008 and we will report on our progress next year.
We help our clients develop new strategies to exploit the market opportunities for sustainability We have examined our activities against potential corporate in their businesses, to reduce their impacts and to comply with responsibility impacts and have reported those that we believe are legislation.
As well as low and zero carbon opportunities, our relevant to WSP.
We have developed some initial key performance business is one of the market leaders for Energy Performance indicators to measure our performance and will be developing these Certificates and in sustainable master planning of new towns and further during 2008. cities.
Stuart McLachlan, Executive Director of WSP Group plc, and We are committed to being a leader on sustainability.
We were one Managing Director of WSP Environment and Energy, reports of the first businesses to promote the concept of Green Leases in sustainability and corporate responsibility at Group Board level.
We also published leading research in 2007 on the relative carbon footprint from home and office working.
We We have an active Corporate Responsibility committee which will continue to lead by being innovative in this important area.
is tasked with leading on sustainability across the business.
The committee is made up of senior global executives and meets on We are working with clients to develop sustainable master plans.
The remit of the committee extends across the In partnership with Urbis, we are working with the Government of business.
Its membership is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure its Dubai to shape the future sustainable development of the city.
This continued applicability to the business.
focuses on infrastructure growth and the regulatory frameworks needed to deliver this vision.
Our strategy for Corporate Responsibility is delivered in four distinct ways which are summarised below, and broadly provide the structure Our acquisition of Lincolne Scott in 2007 provides us with one of for this report: the worlds leading sustainable engineering businesses.
In addition, the Managing Director of Lincolne Scott won Sustainable Champion Our emergence as one of the worlds leading sustainability of the year and sits on the board of the World Green Building consultants: Council.
WSP also won the Sustainable Building of the year award The integration of sustainability into the work we undertake for at the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers CIBSE our clients, thereby realising greater potential through sustainable Sustainable Building Awards.
engineering design: The direct impacts of doing business, such as our offices and our WSP Flack Kurtz have been working with Leadership in Energy purchasing: and and Environmental Design LEED an internationally recognised The impact we have with our staff and our interaction with system for designing, constructing and certifying green buildings.
communities with whom we have relationships.
This allows us to use our knowledge of emerging technologies and 26 WSP Annual Report 2007 innovation and our experience with a wide diversity of buildings to identify the best sustainable solution.
PACT In Sweden, WSP is supporting the Swedish Government to directly advise on the implementation of their energy certification process.
We are also nearing completion of a carbon assessment web based WSP Environment & Energy has launched the UKs first tool which will assist companies across Europe in calculating their employee carbon reduction scheme.
Allowance Carbon Tracking is a unique scheme designed to help staff understand and reduce their personal We have developed a sustainability assessment tool as part of our carbon emissions.
In addition we have developed energy assessment tools.
The graphic outputs from these tools allow for PACT is a voluntary scheme open to all WSP a quick and comprehensible evaluation of performance against Environment & Energy UK employees, and enables pre-agreed targets: identifying where they have not been met and individuals to track and monitor their personal carbon showing required improvement or highlighting where they have emissions outside work.
When an employee signs up, been exceeded.
These tools also facilitates decision taking on they are given a personal carbon allowance of 6 tonnes balancing financial gains with capital or operational cost issues and for the first year of the scheme and a carbon calculator.
the impact of different sustainable solutions on these dynamics.
He or she then records their personal direct carbon A data management system provides an audit trail through the emissions, including energy consumption at home, and evaluation process.
We also want to ensure that our plans address the direct By signing up to PACT, employees commit to making sustainability needs of our clients.
As part of this goal, we have a financial contribution if they exceed their carbon commenced a global initiative aimed at identifying the value our allowance.
This has been set at 5p per kilogram, paid out clients place on elements of selected key services.
The information of taxed income.
This will be limited to 100 for the first we obtain from selected clients will help us further develop our year equating to 2 tonnes overshoot, but employees services to meet their needs and provide a service that is truly can opt to contribute more to cover the total debt.
Any differentiated based upon what clients value.
contribution employees make for exceeding their carbon allowance will be paid into a Carbon Fund administered On UK Health and Safety, we now have approximately 300 by WSP Environmentals PACT team.
directors and senior managers who have completed the internal IOSH accredited Directing Safely course, 400 designers who have If an employees carbon emissions are lower than the 6 completed the internal IOSH accredited Safety in Design.
tonnes benchmark, he or she can choose either a direct cash payment based on the carbon credit up to 100 WSP Environmental has undertaken a pilot study to evaluate key or for the contributions to be invested in the Carbon performance statistics from one of our projects, the National Fund.
We have already collated information indicating that the amount of waste diverted from The Carbon Fund will be used for a range of carbon landfill is 917,441 tonnes, but we have also evaluated the tonnes of reducing measures, including the purchase of direct carbon avoided by our work as 688,912 tonnes equivalent.
During energy saving appliances for staff, such as energy efficient 2008, we will roll out this process to evaluate the environmental light bulbs and programmable thermostats.
Contributions performance of all of WSP Environmentals major projects and to the Fund will also be used to invest in carbon-related develop this programme within the wider group.
projects that are local to the business and benefit the community.
WSP plans to offer PACT to other parts of the Group Business integrity during 2008.
WSP works in many countries throughout the world and we have to adapt to a wide range of cultures and business practices.
As a measure of our commitment to addressing bribery and corruption issues, we have senior representation on both the UK Anti-Corruption Forum and Transparency International UK committees.
WSP Annual Report 2007 27 Last year, we issued a Business Ethics Policy to all of our staff setting We have made progress in 2007 in improving the quality of our out our approach and commitment to addressing this issue and data collection and will further develop this across the Group in introduced a confidential whistle-blowing hotline open to all staff 2008. throughout the Group.
WSP is a signatory to the Bali Communiqu on Climate Change, signalling our commitment to sustainable development In this first year of reporting our performance in this area, we as a cornerstone of our corporate strategy.
have analysed 85% of our business for risks relating to corruption We will be moving to new Global Headquarters in 2009 and through project reviews and assessment from bid stage right through are taking measures to address sustainability issues.
WSP to completion of the project.
The other 15% not covered relate has appointed fit-out designers who have been given a clear to businesses bought during 2007.
We have trained 85% of our remit to address sustainability as part of the process.
Plans employees in our anti-corruption policies through seminars and include on-site provision for cyclist facilities use of sustainable road shows and we have investigated four alleged incidents with no materials for the fit-out, low energy equipment and lighting, evidence of corruption having been found to have taken place.
sub-metering for energy consumption and waste recycling facilities.
Guidance has been sought from our Australian business, Lincolne Scott, who achieved a Green Star level 5 for the interior fit-out of one of their offices in 2007.
Managing our own impact As one of the worlds leading providers of sustainable services we continue to take steps to reduce our own environmental impact.
our Suppliers Different priority areas have been identified and we are delivering significant improvement in our main business areas.
WSP works with our suppliers to deliver key services to our clients, both in terms of the goods we buy and the subcontractors and WSP has committed to benchmark its carbon impact and enter into a partners with whom we work.
To this end, we have embarked on a process of identifying the carbon footprint of our business through While our procurement objective is to demonstrate how to a series of pilot initiatives.
get value for money throughout the life time of a product or service, sustainable procurement practices are starting to benefit 27 offices were included in measuring the carbon footprint of our the organisation by helping society, boosting the economy and Swedish business.
Our research and reporting show that supporting the natural environment.
the carbon footprint from energy use and business travel is 583 kg of CO per employee.
Rather than impose standards on our suppliers we are adopting a 2 Carbon emissions from our 17 UK offices where data was partnership approach and work with them to improve sustainability available are estimated at 710 kg of CO per employee 2006: performance.
Our current focus is on incorporating sustainability 2 703kg.
The average gas consumption per person in these requirements into contracts, assessing contractual performance of offices was 135kg of CO 2006: 466kg.
The data represents a major suppliers and initiating supplier improvement programmes.
2 figure of 747kg CO per employee from building energy and We recognise our responsibility to those suppliers who are 2 covers 60% of 3,160 staff employed in non-site based offices dependent on us and the need to drive sustainability down our 2006: 2,800. supply chain.
To further reduce travel, we have invested in new video conferencing suites in 2007 as our existing facilities had become overused.
We collected business travel data in our UK business which demonstrates that in 2007, on average, our air, car and rail A Room with a view travel contributed 90kg CO per employee.
2 We have launched PACT, our carbon initiative for staff, to help our teams understand and address their personal carbon impact.
The WSP Environment team in Sweden has received the Our property engineering business, Lincolne Scott, is carbon prestigious Hammarby Sjostad Environmental Technology neutral across its Australian and Asia-Pacific offices and, award for a sustainable design project from His Majesty in addition, Flack Kurtz is working towards a carbon neutral King Carl Gustaf of Sweden.
A Room with a View is a close collaboration between To further develop our global strategy in 2008 we are involved in the architects and energy green building specialists to following initiatives: develop and energy-efficient building design concept.
This is intended as a flexible building that incorporates We undertook a waste audit across our UK offices in 2007 and the latest technology to create a comfortable living in 2008 new waste management contracts will be introduced to environment with minimal use of purchased or allow us to track waste generated and recycled more effectively.
Our Environmental team worked We now purchase 100% recycled paper, including all our with structural and design-engineering colleagues from marketing materials and will be evaluating our global performance across WSP Group to develop this concept.
28 WSP Annual Report 2007 Due Diligence 9% Bridges 14% Acoustics 5% Environment Planning Rail 23% 15% Strategic Highways Risk 34% Soil & Management Groundwork 15% 30% Climate Change 16% Local Authority 8% Utilities 4% Water 4% Others 8% CSR 10% Technology 9% Remediation 10% Due Diligence 9% Bridges 14% Acoustics 5% Environment Planning Rail 23% 15% Strategic Urban Highways Transport & Risk Airports & Regeneration & 34% Soil & Management Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% Groundwork 15% 8% 30% 30% Hotels, Leisure & Stadia Hospitals, 9% Schools & Property Climate Prisons 15% Change 16% 56% Local Authority 8% Central & Local Government Utilities 4% 12% Our aim is to uphold and improve the skills and knowledge of our The Community Others 8% Water 4% teams, 64% of whom hold degrees with many other staff holding CSR 10% Technology 9% Remediation 10% other professional qualifications.
Across the Group, an annual We believe that WSP contributes to the economic, social and Environment average of 5 training days per employee was recorded.
environmental development of the countries in which we work by & Energy Corporate & providing employment, paying taxes and through our technical work, Commercial 14% Retention is a key issue for us.
We monitor staff satisfaction through we undertake a wide range of projects supporting communities to 18% our staff survey, and our aim is to maintain or reduce the voluntary develop.
Other 11% turnover of our people.
During 2007, voluntary staff turnover was 16% 2006: 16%.
During 2007, we made charitable donations totalling 126,184 Traffic Planning 2006: 89,754.
This does not include our pro-bono and for Development WSP also considers the length of service and age distribution volunteering contributions and we will re-launch a wider reaching 13% Urban throughout the Group, with the average length of service being 5.8 Transport & Give As You Earn Scheme in April 2008.
Infrastructure Stations Retail 14% 8% We continue to work closely with international aid organisations, 30% which now represent 1.07% of our projects, with an emphasis length of Service Hotels, Leisure on providing sustainable solutions.
We also provide support to & Stadia 24 yrs Hospitals, communities through a number of pro-bono and volunteering 30 yrs 9% 60 yrs 8% Schools & 20-29 yrs 3% projects, a practice we hope to expand as our volunteering strategy Property 8% Prisons 15% 4% develops during 2008.
Our projects include involvement with Water 15-19 yrs 25-29 yrs 56% 2 yrs 55-59 yrs 4% 18% Aid, projects in Africa and Bangladesh to help communities recover 43% 7% and develop.
Closer to home, in the UK we have started to work 10-14 yrs Central & Local 6% closely in educational development.
Government 12% 50-54 yrs As in previous years we have provided a team of professionals from 7% our UK business to deliver a community upliftment project in South Africa.
In 2007 we helped develop an education establishment and 5-9 yrs Environment the surrounding natural environment in a community in Kwazulu 16% & Energy 30-34 yrs Natal.
Corporate & 16% 14% Commercial 18% 45-49 yrs Other 11% 9% our People Traffic Planning for Development As a knowledge based business our staff are our most important 40-44 yrs 13% asset in delivering our goals and our vision.
Their skills, experience 12% 35-39 yrs 2-4 yrs 24% and creative thinking provide the cornerstone of the services that 15% we offer and our approach to meeting our clients needs.
At the end of 2006 we had just over 7,000 staff and this had increased to just over 9,400 at the end of 2007.
Age Distribution 24 yrs 30 yrs 60 yrs 8% 20-29 yrs 3% 8% 4% 15-19 yrs 25-29 yrs 2 yrs 55-59 yrs 4% 18% 43% 7% 10-14 yrs 6% 50-54 yrs 7% 5-9 yrs 16% 30-34 yrs 16% 45-49 yrs 9% 40-44 yrs 12% 35-39 yrs 2-4 yrs 24% 15% WSP Annual Report 2007 29 In the UK, our incident management system, introduced 18 months equality and human Rights ago, is proving a success with greater levels of reporting, traceable management of investigations and easier analysis of incidents.
We are committed to keeping our workplaces free from all unlawful All significant incidents are reviewed by the UK Health & Safety discrimination and to ensuring that all staff have the opportunity to Committee at its quarterly meetings.
During 2007, standardised achieve their potential.
The majority of our staff are well educated accident reporting covered 85% of staff and indicated the following: with technical qualifications and based in office accommodation, and therefore we do not consider breaches of human rights to be a No fatalities were reported 2006: Nil : significant risk.
4 work related major injuries 2006: 4 : and No work related reportable diseases 2006: 2.
The number of women employed in our sector is still relatively low.
However, 28% of our staff are women, the same percentage as An upgrade of the system with improved functionality and a global last year, but this has increased by 5% over the last six years.
The major incident reporting enhancement is currently being tested and proportion of women in senior roles has declined from 16% in 2006 will be rolled out in the first quarter of 2008. to 15% in 2007.
We recognise the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact and are Strategic relationships committed to ensuring that human rights issues do not adversely affect our business, our staff and the communities in which we WSP is committed to reducing risk and delivering change in operate.
WSP has a human rights policy that is regularly reviewed the construction industry by supporting our clients and project and it is communicated both electronically and in hard copy to all our partners.
Links have been developed with a number of major staff.
organisations to explore strategic engagement opportunities, collaboration and alignment.
Increasingly clients are recognising the There are no specific targets assigned to our policies other than benefit of our strategic health and safety advice.
regulatory non-discriminatory ones such as Black Empowerment in South Africa where we have developed the necessary policy and WSP are actively engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Health and performance reporting.
Safety Executive HSE as part of the HSEs programme of strategic interventions with major businesses.
health and Safety Our health and safety vision is To achieve recognition as an Key Performance indicators KPis industry leader in the areas of safety and corporate responsibility.
We proactively encourage the behaviours, culture and leadership for 2008 necessary to embed health and safety as the way we do business.
Our health and safety policy statement gives clear commitment from our WSP will be setting out our strategy during 2008 which will be directors and our health and safety arrangements are designed to adopted on a global basis and will be: fully support the implementation of our vision.
Establishing key objectives for our global and regional Different guidelines apply around the world and, in the UK, we are businesses: proud that health and safety is fully integrated into our business Introducing measures that will help drive sustainability onto the strategy which is established at Group and integrated into each agenda of all our projects: operating company business management system.
Continuous Implementing our objectives across all of our locations: and improvement objectives and action plans within our operating Establishing standardised data collection processes to measure companies focus on our health and safety vision, strategic risks, our performance.
performance measurement and any other areas of development identified such as industry best practice.
The UK Health and Safety management system has been independently audited and verified as compliant with BS OHSAS18001 and during 2007 its implementation was audited and verified as compliant across all of the UK business streams.
WSP support major client led approved supplier health and safety assessment schemes.
In 2007 the UK business achieved its fourth consecutive Gold Award in the RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Awards.
30 WSP Annual Report 2007 Reported in 2007 and to be Further planned for 2008 reported in 2008 Tonnes of carbon saved on major projects our services Proportion of our business analysed for bribery and corruption risks, staff training and number of incidents.
CO per employee for energy use % waste recycled 2 our direct impacts CO per employee for business travel CO performance per employee 2 2 Charitable donations under the PACT scheme Credit taken from suppliers Number of environmental incidents % of staff educated to degree level or above Number of volunteering hours per our Staff Retention rate employee Length of service Ratio of basic salary of men to Age Distribution women Percentage of women and women in senior roles Number of work related fatalities Number of work related major injuries Number work related reportable diseases Number of staff sickness days per employee Kings Cross, london and edunova Land and property development is one of the key forces in regenerating an area, especially one that is deprived.
A prime example is the redevelopment at Kings Cross Station which offers enormous economic, educational and social benefits to the local community and beyond.
As part of our corporate responsibility pro-bono work, WSP Group is working collaboratively with nine other key private sector partners involved in delivering the Kings Cross development through an initiative Kings Cross Business Action Group BAG.
WSP and its partners are working closely with Business in the Community and Camden and Islington Councils in supporting local communities.
During 2007, WSP has been playing a leading role in developing the education element with the support from WSP Edunova, its specialist education management consultancy.
The impact of this work will be borne out during 2008 in the form of: teacher placements within private sector partner organisations: encouraging pupils to experience different working environments: and supporting schools in delivering 14-19 vocational diplomas.
As part of our contribution, WSP Group also has the ambition to develop a classroom of the future for pupils and the local communities to utilise.
The classroom of the future would feature the latest technology working in conjunction with moden teaching and learning methods.
