XCHANGING PLC Corporate and social responsibility Xchanging aspires to attain corporate and social responsibility CSR best practice in every aspect of its performance.
Our CSR priorities are: relations with our employees and a responsible approach to offshoring: the way we serve our customers and treat our suppliers: and the way we interact with the communities and environment in which we operate internationally.
We see CSR as an integral part of our performance as an ethical company.
Embedding best practice for our corporate and social responsibility Our approach We have embedded corporate and social Measuring CSR performance responsibility into our Quality function.
Xchanging understands the importance We manage CSR actively by defining the of measurement.
During 2007, the CSR appropriate measures of performance that performance criteria have been formalised.
we track and report on a monthly basis.
During 2008, the Quality Directors will report For 2008, we have defined a comprehensive performance against these criteria every programme for each of our business sectors.
month to the Xchanging Performance Committee which includes the CEO and CFO.
Embedded practices Our Quality Directors work closely with the Reporting and transparency production teams to drive environmental Externally, we will publish regular updates on and supplier best practice: the HR teams to our website, we will report activities, planned drive initiatives that benefit our people and events and the progress we are making the communities we operate in: the Service against our 2008 programme.
teams to benefit our customers: and with our Legal team to ensure the highest level Monitoring effectiveness of business ethics.
A Board sub-committee, chaired by NonExecutive Director Stephen Brenninkmeijer, with the CEO, Group Quality Director and Group HR Director, has been established to take overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the CSR programme in 2008.
34 Corporate and social responsibility ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Our priorities Xchangings community initiatives Our people Our communities Xchangings core asset is its people and we set Xchanging actively encourages community out our approach in this key area on page 32. initiatives, with an emphasis on staff engagement with their local communities Offshoring at the grass roots level.
In 2008, our aim Our Global Balancing model includes building is to extend the level of support that our offshore capacity.
We leverage our suite staff and Xchanging as a company provide Each of our Gurgaon staff donated of BPO sales offerings to use this capacity to the communities we live and work in one kilo of food, clothes, books and stationery items to the Goonj to service new customers and to avoid and to think more broadly as to how we charity in an initiative called redundancies wherever possible.
can practically support poor countries Shed 1 kilo.
For further information Our customers on CSR, please visit the corporate and social Our Frankfurt staff donated Xchanging asks customers to rate its responsibility section of our website.
money and practical support for homeless people Leberechtperformance regularly.
perception as well as taking empirical The environment measurements.
These measurements are As a service provider, we think carefully about Our Preston staff raised money reviewed each month by the Customer Service how we can positively affect our environment.
through sponsorship for research Review boards and committees, as well as on a During 2007, we have encouraged our sites into serious genetic disorders affecting children Jeans for one-on-one basis with customers by our service to reduce the use of energy resources and to Genes.
Each month the Xchanging Performance increase the recycling of waste.
Over the past Committee reviews customer satisfaction and two years, we have built communications Our staff participated in the follows up on any issues.
hubs, with high quality video links to connect Lloyds Community Programme together our major international sites.
Our suppliers hubs are already in use for over 80% of the Xchanging defines the required performance two-shift day, reducing staff travel and our and ethical basis of the supplier relationships carbon footprint.
In 2008, we will develop covering over 640 million of our own and our an Environmental Policy that covers every customers spend.
To this end, an Environment with each specifies the standards of supply.
As part of the active management of supply We donated computers and types for Xchanging and for our procurement printers to equip a Tanzanian township school where four customers, during 2007, we have included an Xchanging employees also spent environmental element which we will continue time teaching IT skills.
This includes: supply of degradable plastic bags A number of our staff participated and packaging in Build Africa, a development charity that works in Uganda use of recyclable paper and taxis and Kenya.
with low carbon hybrid cars green renewable energy that saves 446 grams of carbon for every unit of electricity used.
Reduction in carbon footprint Introduction of communications hubs has decreased staff travel.
