XCHANGING PLC Our people Our people are critical to sustaining Xchanging as a fast growing, international company.
To support our corporate ambitions Xchanging recruits, manages and develops a versatile and dynamic workforce.
We are committed to realising our peoples ambitions and achieving our common goal as a leading BPO company.
Values Rewards Our core values In the best companies, the ones that have We are committed to continuing to build lasting success, people have a strong sense a performance reward culture across our Responsive to of shared principles.
Our values underpin business: this is why we build variable pay the aims of our business proposition.
They are a central into our reward strategy with the potential customers part of our performance and development for upper quartile rewards.
review, the basis of career development, Clear thinking, and of recognition and remuneration Transferring employees resolute, brave within Xchanging.
New employees transfer to Xchanging from in decisions our customers as part of our Enterprise Reliable in As a business we focus on cultural and Partnership and Outsourcing contracts.
delivering operational reinvention of our customers We welcome new employees and the skills non-core activities.
Our reputation is founded and talents they bring to Xchanging.
All everything on the transparency of our business proposition employees go through an induction process we promise and living our values.
To reinvent non-core and we provide opportunities for them to take Farsighted in processes, employees must build a commercial on new responsibilities and to develop their relationships mindset and an ability to innovate and change.
careers, while being rewarded for success.
Skilled at Training Sales awards releasing the Xchanging has distinct, repeatable and Xchanging holds a Quarterly Sales Awards entrepreneurial consistent methodologies to enhance evening to recognise significant sales successes spirit in our employee skills.
As well as ongoing training and entrepreneurship.
Awards are presented people programmes, our Master Classes ensure that by Adele Browne, Executive Director of Sales our internal experts transfer knowledge and and Commercial, to the winner for each experience to their fellow employees.
Leadership Equal opportunities Our Leadership Training for Success LTS We provide equal opportunities to all our staff programme identifies, assesses and promotes irrespective of gender, race, colour, ethnic or the future leaders of Xchanging.
This annual national origin, disability, political opinions, age, programme has up to 10 high potential nationality, sexual orientation, religion, marital managers who undertake a combination of status, social class or family circumstances.
We full-time study, practical problem solving and provide all staff with the opportunity to develop a project to improve Xchanging performance.
their careers to the maximum.
The programme has produced four promotions to senior management positions in the last Health and safety two years.
We take health and safety very seriously across all our sites.
Our Health & Safety Management Graduate programme System is based on OHSAS 18001 and is In 2006, Xchanging launched its Graduate underpinned by a number of initiatives.
For Programme, with three management trainees.
example, we are installing defibrillators at all In 2007, we increased this number to eight.
Over a two year period, graduates are exposed to a mix of industry, geographical and functional experience.
They work closely with senior executives, gaining a qualification and a deep understanding of the Xchanging Way.
32 Our people ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Leadership training for success Xchanging: One company, one purpose, one team.
LTS approach to low cost production behaviour.
Graduate programme You are constantly learning and developing at Xchanging change is a hugely motivating factor.
Simon Bittlestone, Xchanging Graduate, Oxford University Sales awards I was delighted to be recognised for the success I have had with Tech Mahindra.
Shireen Shams, Corporate Immigration Adviser, Xchanging Our people 33
