20 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review | Sustainable Development Sustainable development We are committed to the goal of sustainable development and balance social, environmental and economic considerations in how we manage our business.
We believe that operating to leading standards of health, safety and environmental management, contributing to the development of sustainable communities and engaging with our stakeholders in two-way, open dialogue, regardless of our location, enhances our corporate reputation and is a source of competitive advantage.
This enables us to gain access to new resources, maintain a licence to operate, attract and retain the best people, access diverse and low-cost sources of capital, identify and act upon business opportunities and optimise our management of risks.
We comply in full with the laws and regulations in each country where we operate.
In addition, we operate in accordance with Xstratas sustainable development framework, aspiring to achieve the highest international standards regardless of location and without exception.
We conduct regular internal and external audits of our businesses and operations to assure compliance with our Business Principles, policies and standards.
A comprehensive, separate Group Sustainability Report is published annually and is available from the Xstrata website.
Governance and assurance Xstratas independent Sustainable Development Assurance Programme is the key mechanism through which the Xstrata Board and management gain assurance that the Groups policies and standards are being met or exceeded by each operation and commodity business.
In 2007, 33 operations were independently audited under this programme with two achieving the optimum level.
The Board HSEC Committee plays an important role in the oversight of the Groups policies and performance in this area.
Further information is provided in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 110 to 120.
During 2007, a wide-ranging and in-depth external and internal review of Xstratas HSEC governance framework was undertaken.
The review was initiated in response to the significantly changed risk profile of Xstratas operations, the continued evolution of the scope and profile of sustainability issues and extensive feedback from internal and external stakeholders since the framework was implemented in 2004.
The revised Sustainable Development Framework comprises Xstratas Statement of Business Principles, Sustainable Development Policy, Sustainable Development Standards and Assurance Programme and was approved by Xstratas Executive Committee and Board at the end of 2007.
The revised framework is being rolled out across the Group, supported by a comprehensive internal communications programme including regional workshops, led by the Group GM Sustainable Development.
Employees We maintain a safe workplace that is based on mutual respect, fairness and integrity.
We provide industry-leading career development opportunities, competitive remuneration and fair and non-discriminatory workplaces.
Xstratas operations aim to maximise the number of local people employed wherever possible, to share the economic benefits of our presence with neighbouring communities and families.
We respect our employees right to collective representation, just compensation, job security and opportunities for development.
We value diversity and treat all employees and contractors fairly, providing equal opportunity at all levels of the organisation without bias according to race, nationality, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, political or other opinion or any other basis.
Improving the diversity of our workforce and extending our extensive education, training, apprenticeship and bursary schemes offer potential solutions to the current global shortage of skills in the mining industry.
For example, the women in mining initiative in Australia and South America has helped our businesses fill vacant positions by recruiting, training and retaining more female employees through the introduction of family friendly working hours and practices.
In 2007, women represented 13% of all managers and 9% of the total workforce.
While no formal diversity targets are in place, with the exception of South Africa, where our businesses are complying with requirements under the Mining Charter, our businesses are implementing a number of initiatives to further improve the recruitment, promotion and retention of women, local and indigenous people.
Workers at Fraser Mine, Sudbury meet for a regular safety briefing Nhlanhla Mkhonto and Themba Kabinde inspect the river at Goedgevonden coal mine, South Africa Health and safety We aim to operate a safe workplace that is injuryand fatality-free, and to enhance the well-being of employees, contractors and communities.
Safety remains a priority for Xstrata management.
Regrettably, five employees and four contractors were fatally injured at Xstratas managed operations in 2007.
Fatality prevention programmes and ongoing improvements in identifying and managing major hazards continue, in particular at Xstratas South African operations, and have been integrated into commodity business safety management systems.
All operations are required to implement robust major hazard management processes, supported by the reporting and investigation of all high potential risk incidents, including near-miss incidents.
To identify opportunities for improvement and ensure these processes are robust and effective, every operation has committed to implement a formal review process of major health, safety, environmental and community hazards by the end of 2008.
With the increased demand for skilled labour globally, the effective management of contractors has been identified as a high-risk area and is a focus for all commodity businesses, particularly in the development of large-scale capital projects.
While significant challenges still remain to achieve our aim of an injury-free workplace, excellent progress has been made during 2007 to reduce the frequency of all recordable injuries sustained, in particular in improving the safety performance of the former Falconbridge operations.
The frequency of all recordable injuries has reduced by 33% at the former Falconbridge operations and by 26% for all managed operations, including contractors.
HIV and AIDS continue to present a major health challenge for the Groups workforce and communities, particularly in South Africa.
Xstrata Coal South Africa continues to set new benchmarks in continuous testing, counselling and treatment programmes.
In 2007 over 95% of employees and contractors had voluntarily tested for HIV and AIDS and over 65% of HIV positive employees were enrolled in treatment programmes.
Xstrata Alloys has implemented a similar workplace programme with strong initial take-up rates of approximately 70%.
A first of its kind public-private partnership between Xstrata and the Mpumulanga provincial health authorities was signed in March 2007 and is assisting regional government to substantially extend access to voluntary HIV and AIDS testing, counselling and treatment.
Workplace programmes are also in place at Xstrata Nickels Falcondo operation in the Dominican Republic and are being implemented, together with malaria prevention initiatives, at the Kabanga exploration project in Tanzania.
Xstrata Copper is designing a HIV and AIDS programme for the Frieda River project in Papua New Guinea, leveraging off Xstrata Coal South Africas leading practices.
Noise-induced hearing loss continued to represent the largest single cause of new occupational illnesses reported by the Group in 2007 and is a key focus for all operations.
The number of new illnesses reported continues to decline falling by 36% in 2007, despite the Groups increased scale, number of operations and workforce.
Our long-term target is to achieve no new cases of occupational illnesses.
Environment We aim to preserve the long-term health, function and viability of the natural environments affected by our operations.
We seek to drive sustainable improvements in efficiency across the Group, in particular in the use of water and energy.
The Groups key environmental impacts are in greenhouse gas emissions, primarily from methane emitted during coal mining and indirect emissions from energy use: water use: potential impacts on biodiversity and landscape functions: product responsibility for example the carbon liability of the Groups thermal coal production : waste and tailings management: and emissions to water and air for example sulphur dioxide emissions from metallurgical smelting operations.
22 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review | Sustainable Development Environmental incidents We eliminate, mitigate or remediate the environmental impacts of our activities and aim to prevent or mitigate the impact of adverse environmental incidents.
All environmental incidents are reported according to severity on a scale of 1 negligible to 5 disastrous.
Category 3, 4 or 5 incidents are reported to the Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
In 2007, the number of category 3 incidents reduced by over 52%.
No category 4 major or 5 disastrous environmental incidents have ever occurred at Xstratas operations.
Category 3 incidents are defined as incidents causing moderate, reversible environmental impact with short-term effect, requiring moderate remediation.
Climate change Climate change is one of the Groups principal risks see page 24.
Our initiatives to respond to climate change include installing methanefired power stations which capture fugitive methane from coal seams to generate energy, engaging with government and industry participants to contribute to the development of clean coal technologies and improving the energy efficiency of our operations.
In 2007 an independent study was commissioned into the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations, such as increased storm activity, reduction in the availability of glacial water and reductions in permafrost.
The study identified a number of potential higher-risk operations and its findings are being assessed through our strategy and business planning process to develop appropriate responses.
In 2007, greenhouse gas emissions increased by 39% year-on-year, primarily driven by the inclusion of data from the acquired Falconbridge operations in 2007 excluded in 2006.
On a like-for-like basis, emissions rose by 18% due to increased ferrochrome and coal production, which offset lower greenhouse gas emissions from the copper operations.
Carbon intensity per tonne of product declined year-on-year in 2007 towards our target of a 5% reduction in intensity by 2010.
Energy We aim to continually improve the efficiency with which we use natural resources, in particular energy and water.
Access to a secure and cost effective supply of energy represents a principal risk see page 27.
Programmes are in place across Xstratas operations to reduce energy intensity particularly at high-intensity metallurgical operations and achieve cost savings.
Energy efficiency audits are routinely carried out at our operations.
Key energy efficiency initiatives in 2007 included the commissioning of the Bokamoso pelletising plant which will reduce energy consumption by approximately 30% at our ferrochrome operations: the commissioning of a gas-fired power station at Mount Isa that led to a saving of approximately 50,400 GJ gigajoules : a range of initiatives at Xstrata Nickel operations that Environmental Advisor Paul Taylor samples water at the Townsville copper refinery, Australia Community members undertaking training at the Las Bambas copper project, Peru
