pp p q p p g Heres to being responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 pp p q p p g Yell is recognised for a clear and unwavering commitment Welcome from the to responsibility that is inextricably linked to the continued success of Yell.
Chief Executive Officer Our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and in the Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index, for the third consecutive year, puts Yell in the top 10% of some 2,500 companies in the world.
We have also been included in the Global 100 list of the worlds most sustainable businesses for a second time and we take great pride in having been honoured by a second Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our approach to sustainability.
We show concern for the environment throughout our operations.
In November 2006 we were awarded Green Apple Champion status for our UK environmental programme.
In the US, Spain and Latin America we are committed to building and strengthening our Corporate Responsibility CR programmes and in all areas we continue to make an increasing contribution to the communities of which we are part.
The 2007 Corporate Responsibility report gives an overview of our approach and highlights some of our achievements, while the full detail of our extensive CR programme can be found on our website at www.
We have achieved much in the CR field in 2007, building on our previous successes and laying the foundations for a sustainable future.
We are proud of our achievements, but we remain committed to doing, and achieving, more.
John Condron Chief Executive Officer 42 pp p q p p g For Yell, corporate governance and a responsible approach Our approach are inextricably linked.
We firmly believe that good governance is essential within a responsible company and that a sound approach to corporate responsibility necessitates good governance.
Our Governance and Responsibility programme brings the two together, enabling mutual benefits and ensuring that we meet our commitments to all our stakeholders.
Vision Our vision for governance and responsibility at Yell is to provide our shareholders and other stakeholders with confidence that Yell is a well-managed and responsible company.
Guiding principles Our Guiding Principles Excellence, Reliability, Responsibility and Integrity support our vision, underpin our values and define our approach to all aspects of our business.
Governance and Responsibility framework We have established a framework which we believe identifies all the elements of a sound approach to governance and responsibility.
A Steering Group, comprised of senior managers and led by our Company Secretary, uses this framework to set and monitor governance and responsibility objectives, identify improvement opportunities and ensure that activities are aligned with business strategy.
Through this framework we provide assurance to all our stakeholders that Yell is a well-managed, responsible company.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 43 pp p q p p g Element Sub-element We have a CR Steering Group in the UK and the US, each consisting of senior representatives from across our The Yell Way Culture operations.
These groups are responsible for monitoring our Roles, responsibilities and CR programme, identifying key areas of focus and setting accountabilities objectives and targets.
Objectives are included on our CR Business excellence scorecards and outline our activities and targets for the year.
Baseline compliance Laws and regulations Market regulation Our day-to-day CR activities are integrated into our business Responsibility Environment plans and are managed by local managers, together with Suppliers partners internal community and environment champions.
Yell people Customers Internal and external review Investors The Governance and Responsibility Steering Group is Community responsible for ensuring the information we present is verified through internal and external assessments.
In the UK, this Brand integrity Reputation and brand management includes external compliance reviews against key quality Intellectual property standards, benchmarking of our community programmes by Fair selling the London Benchmarking Group, and our triennial Investors Accountability and Reporting in People assessment.
openness Stakeholder dialogue Investor relations Best practice Internal communication We share best practice with, and learn from, other Risk management Internal control and audit organisations and are members of Business in the Community, Assurance the London Benchmarking Group, the Corporate Responsibility Group, and the Media CSR Forum.
We report on governance and responsibility in a number of ways, including our CR report, our annual report, and online Stakeholder engagement at www.
We report on our activities and We frequently ask our stakeholders for their views on our programmes, and our performance against targets.
In 2007, in addition to less formal methods, we conducted a research programme with our How we manage corporate responsibility stakeholders.
The results confirm the importance of CR to all CR is a major part of our Governance and Responsibility Yell stakeholders and show that we are seen to strike a good framework and we report on it separately from the other balance between commercial and social objectives.
The Governance and Responsibility Steering Group Stakeholders believe we should do more to emphasise the manages our overall approach to CR, through the continuous benefits of our CR activities particularly to customers, who review of our performance, and presents CR information to are often unaware of our programmes.
These and other the Board throughout the year.
Our CEO is the CR champion findings are being built into our 2008 CR programme.
44 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g Our reporting footprint Yell UK Corporate practice Corporate practice defines the way we manage relationships with our economic stakeholders advertisers, users, suppliers, shareholders and our business standards.
Strong performance within corporate practice gives confidence that we are a well-managed business and is vital for our ongoing success.
Environment A responsible approach to the environment is essential for the future sustainability of our business.
We work alongside our key business partners to ensure our impact on the environment is minimised.
Workplace Our culture is one where diversity is valued and people are encouraged and enabled to take responsibility for achieving their potential.
People are the foundation of our success and our aim is to recruit, retain and develop the very best, while providing them with a challenging and rewarding career.
Community We support the communities in which we operate and encourage Yell people to get involved in making a difference.
Activities benefit community sectors from schools and businesses, to charities and the environment, as well as raising our brand profile and developing the wider skills of our people.
Yellow Book USA We use the same reporting framework in the US as in the UK.
As the US is at a different stage in the development of CR we report on their activities separately.
Yell Publicidad We operate with the same commitment to CR in our recently acquired operations in Spain and Latin America as in the rest of the Yell Group.
We have established a CR management team to develop existing and new activities, and to establish a measurement and reporting process.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 45 pp p q p p g We have worked with the Corporate practice Royal Berkshire Hospital to help them develop a more customer-focused approach.
Strong performance within corporate practice gives confidence that we are a well-managed business and is vital for our future success.
Royal Berkshire Foundation Trust In 2006 the Prime Ministers office asked FTSE 100 companies to volunteer business advice and assistance to Foundation Trusts.
Yell was pleased to support the initiative and offered to work with the Royal Berkshire Hospital RBH in Reading, part of the Royal Berkshire Foundation Trust, to help develop a more customer-focused service within the hospital.
Members of Yells Customer Service team and managers from RBH worked together to identify areas where we could help RBH develop and implement its programme of change in patient care and service.
This included helping them understand how our call centres operate and providing them with the framework to set up their first call centre team.
We developed and presented a team-building course for the new team, and RBH managers attended some of our service-based courses to see how they could benefit from our training materials.
We also introduced the concept of coaching and trained four RBH managers to become coaches, as well as offering coaching assistance on site.
Our training and coaching teams are committed to supporting this project and further coaching and call handling training support is planned for next year.
Our support has been welcomed and feedback from RBH has been very positive and encouraging.
Alison Browne, from Royal Berkshire Hospital said, This experience has been an excellent insight into how commercial organisations work and has made us rethink how we induct and retain staff.
In addition, Yell people have benefited from exposure to other working practices and have been enthused by adding real For more information visit www.
com value to the community.
46 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g The Yell for Enterprise website Yell is one of only 33 UK companies provides business information ever to be recognised as an to SMEs.
Investors in People Champion organisation.
Yell for Enterprise Sharing best practice Yell for Enterprise was launched in December 2006 to As an Investor in People Champion, Yell is recognised as an provide practical support to small and medium-sized exemplar organisation by Investors in People UK.
Of over enterprises SMEs referred to us by charitable organisations 37,000 UK organisations that hold the IiP Standard, only 33 like The Princes Trust, with whom we have been working have ever been awarded Champion status a testament to for the last three years.
our approach to people management and to the skills and abilities of our people.
Through the Yell for Enterprise website we provide business information to SMEs, together with direct access to Trade Champion status recognises a commitment to lead by example Association support.
Currently, five of the largest Trade in promoting good practice in the workplace.
Together with Associations are supporting our initiative by offering their holding the honour for three years comes a commitment to services free of charge.
In addition, we offer free Yell.
com and support businesses interested in improving their performance Yellow Pages advertising to this virtual community of SMEs for through effective people management.
one year, and we have created a growing network of support from our advertiser base.
A series of regional Yell Live events We provide support by assisting and mentoring a range of bring local businesses together to share their experiences with businesses and their people.
We host a series of best practice the Yell for Enterprise SMEs.
events through which we demonstrate our approaches and share our knowledge and experience.
We share this learning As well as the benefits to the young entrepreneurs themselves, more widely by providing Yell case studies for a range of the initiative creates an opportunity for Yell to engage with business publications and websites.
We also contribute to the SMEs that might otherwise overlook the value of our products.
development of Investors in People standards to ensure they It enables our people to act as mentors to young businesses remain stretching, in line with workplace trends, and of benefit and facilitators at the regional events, as well as providing a to the wider business community.
sounding board for new ideas and initiatives.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 47 pp p q p p g Environment 31 tonnes We work alongside our key business of furniture sent to Green-Works in 2007. partners to ensure our impact on the environment is minimised.
Green-Works Yell has recently entered a partnership with Green-Works, a charity and social enterprise which works with companies wishing to dispose of old office furniture through re-use and recycling rather than sending it to landfill.
Green-Works warehouses the furniture and sells it to local community groups and small businesses at low prices.
Green-Works has a zero landfill policy and all redundant office furniture is processed for re-use, remanufacturing, or recycling.
They also create employment and training for disadvantaged people, such as the homeless or ex-offenders, and send equipment to developing countries such as Sierra Leone.
Since June 2006, Yell has sent more than 31 tonnes of furniture to Green-Works, two thirds of which resulted from a move to new premises in Manchester.
Furthermore, all new office furniture we purchase comes from a sustainable furniture provider with Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification, to ensure all the raw materials used come from responsibly-managed forests.
For more information visit www.
com 48 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g 98% 60% 1.7m schoolchildren have been involved of local authorities accept old of households recycled their in the Yellow Woods Challenge Yellow Pages directories for old Yellow Pages directories.
FDS International annual recycling survey Yellow Woods Challenge Recycling Yellow Pages directories The Yellow Woods Challenge is Yell UKs simple, educational Before delivery of new editions of Yellow Pages directories, and fun environmental campaign for schools and is run in the Yellow Pages Directory Recycling Scheme YPDRS partnership with the Woodland Trust and local authorities confirms each local authoritys recycling facilities for the across the UK.
old editions and, where necessary, provides support for setting up facilities.
The campaign is headed by Kirk, a fictional mini-beast, who Details of all recycling facilities that accept Yellow Pages makes recycling fun and brings environmental messages to directories are available either from the yellgroup.
com life in the classroom through curriculum-linked activities.
website or through the free Directory Recycling Helpline on 0800 671 444.
In 2007, more than 5,400 callers used the Launched in September 2002, the recycling competition has helpline to locate their nearest recycling point for old Yellow so far involved 1.7 million schoolchildren in recycling 1.7 million Pages and a further 10,000 accessed the information online.
old directories, with Yell awarding 270,000 in cash prizes to schools for their recycling achievements and for creating giant sculptures from old Yellow Pages directories.
Where recycling opportunities are limited or not in place, the YPDRS offers assistance to set up and promote recycling of old Yellow Pages via recycling banks, kerbside collections and the For every pound awarded to schools, Yell donates a matching Yellow Woods Challenge competition for schools.
As of March pound to the Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland 2007 our work with local authorities had contributed to a conservation charity.
Since 2004, these funds support the record 98% of authorities being able to accept old Yellow Pages Trusts Tree For All campaign the most ambitious childrens directories for recycling up from 76% in 2002 and 61% of local tree-planting project ever launched in the UK.
authorities collect old editions via their kerbside recycling programme the best and most practical environmental Pictured alongside Kirk are pupils from Scott An Drached option.
The YPDRS also liaises with local and community in Belfast, launching their local Yellow Woods Challenge.
recycling organisations to encourage and promote recycling of the old directories into, amongst other things, animal bedding, cardboard, packaging, insulation products and newsprint.
The publicity we have given to recycling of directories has contributed to significant increases in the numbers of UK households that recycle their old Yellow Pages, rather For more information visit www.
co. uk than sending them to landfill.
In May 2006, 60% of UK households recycled their old Yellow Pages directory up from 57% in 2005.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 49 pp p q p p g Workplace 67,000 raised for the Princes Trust in 2007.
People are the foundation and source of our success.
We aim to recruit, retain and develop the very best people, and to provide them with a challenging and rewarding career.
Yell Raisers In 2006 Yell became a 30th anniversary patron of the Princes Trust.
To support our patron status we joined other businesses in the South East in the Princes Trust Enterprise Challenge.
Our 13-strong team of Yell volunteers, the Yell Raisers, took on the challenge of raising more than 20,000 for the Princes Trust in just nine months.
With the support of Yell people from across the country the Yell Raisers generated funds through events such as dress-down days, raffles, producing and selling Christmas cards, sponsored abseiling and running in the Princes Trust 10k race held at Legoland, Windsor in October.
The teams flagship event, the Yell Raisers Ball, was held in November 2006.
Ticket sales and generous sponsorship from local companies added to the funds from other events and helped the team smash their 20,000 target before the night had even begun.
And a highly competitive live auction amongst the 500 revellers pushed the total to almost 30,000.
The Yell Raisers promptly raised their target to 65,000 and by the end of the nine months had raised more than 67,000, the highest of all the teams.
In recognition of their contribution to the Enterprise Challenge, four of the Yell Raisers team were nominated for the Princes Trust Employee Development Awards.
For his excellent chairmanship of the team and outstanding personal development Greig McEwan, Yell Project Manager, won an award.
com 50 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g The Developing Potential Scheme is designed to broaden the experience and business 98% awareness of our people.
of Yell people have a clear understanding of Yells objectives.
97% of Yell people understand how their work contributes to Yells success.
Developing Potential Scheme Communication of objectives In July 2006, Yell UK launched the Developing Potential We believe that a clear understanding of the companys Scheme DPS a new way of identifying the career aspirations objectives, and the contribution each of us makes to them, and development potential of people in non-sales roles at all channels the skills and abilities of all 3,750 Yell UK people levels.
88 people participated in the scheme.
toward their achievement and is a major factor in our success.
The scheme involves events such as breakfast meetings, For the past ten years we have invested in a major strategic speaker sessions, mentoring and development workshops, communication to all employees that explains our vision and all designed to help broaden their experience and commercial strategy and outlines major plans, programmes and objectives and business awareness.
It also provides an excellent for the year ahead.
Called Yell Objectives, the communication opportunity for people to network with DPS colleagues from programme uses a brochure for each employee, a dedicated around the business.
website, posters and presentations by managers to ensure people understand how achievement of their team and Members have benefited from opportunities to change the department objectives contributes to the achievement of way they work and more than 25% of the participants have corporate objectives.
People then work with their managers been promoted or have taken on additional roles since the to set individual objectives based on their team objectives launch of the scheme.
Participants have developed a broader and, thereby, company objectives.
Progress against individual, network of contacts and a wider view of the business, and team, department and company objectives is reviewed have improved their skills and expertise.
regularly and improvement action is taken where necessary.
In our 2007 Tell Yell employee opinion survey, 98% of respondents stated that they had a clear understanding of Yells objectives, and 97% understood how their work contributes to the success of Yell.
Overall, our approach strengthens Yells reputation as an excellent place to work and helps us attract and retain talent in a highly competitive market.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 51 Deliver:Change:Lead pp p q p p g Community 1.13m We believe it is important that our total Group investment in communities in 2007. work in the community reflects the needs of our customers, our users and our people, and that it enhances our reputation as a responsible company.
Slough Customer Operations community work We encourage Yell people to take part in voluntary activities in the community through our network of Community Champions and by providing paid time off.
Our Customer Operations team in Slough have set themselves a yearly objective of spending an average of at least one day each working to benefit the local community.
In the last year, 85 people from Customer Operations have spent more than 630 hours working in small groups to complete a variety of local community activities such as garden makeovers for a local hospital and for a recently widowed elderly man, and redecoration of a Scout hut and the local Homestart accommodation.
Recently, they organised a successful sports day at Arbour Vale School in Slough and they have also produced emergency packs for East Berkshire Womens Aid.
All the money required for these projects is raised by the teams themselves through regular fundraising activities.
At the end of each community activity, the teams review their achievements, the skills they have developed such as problem solving, communications and teamworking and opportunities for further voluntary work.
com 52 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g Yell has operated an undergraduate support scheme since 2001.
239,000 children involved in Mini Pots of Care this year.
Marie Curie Cancer Care Undergraduates and CBEBP Mini Pots of Care is a national fundraising initiative for schools, For the last six years we have operated an undergraduate run by Marie Curie Cancer Care and Yell.
The fun and creative support scheme designed to give participants experience of activity forms part of the charitys Great Daffodil Appeal, its work in a FTSE100 company.
At the same time, the scheme annual flagship fundraising campaign that runs throughout gives Yell the opportunity to see potential graduate employees March, sponsored by Yellow Pages.
Schoolchildren plant a daffodil bulb in their own mini pot in Last year, 17 of the undergraduates based in our Reading Autumn.
When the daffodils bloom in Spring, pupils decorate offices worked with local schools in conjunction with a charity, their pots and take them home to someone they care about in the Central Berkshire Education Business Partnership CBEBP.
exchange for a donation to Marie Curie Cancer Care.
They facilitated a number of local CBEBP events and provided support to the teams of students taking part.
The one-day Pictured are pupils from St Margarets RC Primary School in events included Car Wise, which takes pupils through the South Queensferry, Lothian, getting their hands dirty planting process of buying a car, and Build up Your Business, in which daffodil bulbs.
More than 239,000 children got involved this pupils set up a company and put together a marketing year and had fun painting their pots on 1 March to launch the campaign.
Supporting schools is a major part of our CR strategy, with benefits to all parties.
The undergraduates who took part Money raised through Mini Pots of Care and the Great Daffodil found the events useful in developing their leadership skills Appeal helps fund the work of the Marie Curie Nurses, who and the programme enhanced Yells reputation as a provide high-quality nursing, totally free of charge to give responsible company.
terminally ill patients care in their own homes, supported by their families.
Yell covers the cost of promotional materials so that funds raised go directly to the charity.
Since 1999, Yell has helped Marie Curie Cancer Care raise 20 million, equating to 1 million nursing hours.
uk Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 53 pp p q p p g Our newsletter, The Fortress is Yellow Book USA sent to all our people each quarter.
In 2007, we produced 969 directories across 47 states and Washington DC.
Yellow Book USA employs more than 8,000 people.
Employee communication At Yellow Book USA our people are based in more than 400 offices across 47 states, presenting a challenge for communication about company goals, initiatives and information.
There are several ways we address this.
The Fortress is our quarterly newsletter, delivered to all employees.
It highlights sales success stories and provides information on key programmes and developments in other departments, including local corporate responsibility initiatives.
Newslink is a weekly email newsletter covering information and articles on matters such as benefits, target dates, Yell share price updates, training programmes, vacancies and meeting dates.
Sales leaders are in constant communication with their teams.
Kick-off meetings at the beginning of a market canvass provide information specific to that market, weekly meetings keep teams abreast of market progress, and canvass closedown meetings let people know how well the canvass went and provide an opportunity to celebrate successes.
In 2006 we introduced Videos on Demand which enables people throughout Yellow Book USA to access communication and training videos via the company intranet site.
com 54 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g We work with Earth 911 to promote the recycling of directories in local communities.
Publishing and the environment Community Involvement United Way We continue to work closely with our three main paper Yellow Book USA is involved in many community-based suppliers, Fraser, Catalyst and UPM-Kymmene, to minimise initiatives across the United States and we encourage the impact of directory production on the environment.
our people to donate their time, skills and money.
All our suppliers have ISO 14001 certification and participate in independently verified chain of custody systems that are A far-reaching initiative that involves Yellow Book people in designed to ensure that the fibre in their paper products many offices and states is our annual United Way fundraising comes from well-managed forests.
We have also worked with campaign.
United Way is a national organisation that works them to increase the recycled fibre content of the paper in our with local companies to maintain their focus on local issues directories from 19% in 2005 to more than 40% in 2007. and ensure that charitable donations help to support the most pressing local needs.
We worked with our main printing partner, Quebecor World, to ensure their new presses were set up in locations that would Recently, a number of people from Yellow Book created a minimise the number of freight miles travelled to deliver our video that gives an overview of how United Way supports our directories to their destinations.
communities and encourages others to support its activities.
More than 1,200 Yellow Book people from across the US Earth 911 is an environmental information network and supported United Way activities last year, raising more than we work with them to promote the recycling of directories $190,000 for local United Way charities.
Information on Earth 911 can be found on www.
com as well as in the front pages of our Yellow Book directories and under the Recycling Centers classification.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 55 pp p q p p g Yell Publicidad is committed to Yell Publicidad self-regulation and operates in strict accordance with advertising standards.
We are committed to a formal company-wide approach to corporate responsibility and to sharing best practice with Yell UK.
Commitment to self-regulation Yell Publicidad has been a member of Autocontrol the Association for the Self-Regulation of Commercial Communication since 2002.
Autocontrol is a non-profit organisation set up to prevent or resolve advertising controversies.
It has established an ethical framework that promotes honest and responsible advertising that benefits consumers and advertisers, and promotes fair competition.
The key principles are that advertising must be legal, honest, fair and truthful.
Through Autocontrol, consumers are able to raise any concerns they might have about advertisements which have been published in Spain, and advertisers receive advice on the legal and ethical accuracy of their adverts before they are published.
As a member, Yell Publicidad continues to promote responsible advertising.
Autocontrol has agreements with relevant statutory authorities to ensure its member companies comply with regulations and that they co-operate with established regulators.
As a member of Autocontrol, Yell Publicidad is committed to complying with their Codes of Conduct, which includes the General Code of Advertising Practice.
com 56 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g We are committed to providing opportunities for personal and professional development to all $17,000 our people.
donated to charities in Peru in 2006.
Directory recycling campaigns Training and development Yell Publicidad in Peru has been running a directory collection Yell Publicidad is committed to the ongoing personal and and recycling campaign since 2000.
Now in its seventh year, professional development of all its people.
We provide grants the campaign aims to minimise our environmental impact, to non-sales people in Spain for external studies and university and support local charities by donating money raised from courses to improve their skills in their current role.
We also selling recycled material.
Until 2005 the recycling campaign spent more than 313,000 on other areas of non-sales was carried out solely in Lima, but in 2006 we rolled out the training, such as our Effective Leadership programme.
campaign to all the provinces in Peru.
We provided more than 62,000 hours of training across Chile, Argentina and Peru last year.
When new directories are distributed each year, copies of previous directory editions are collected.
These old directories, On joining Yell Publicidad, all new sales managers undertake along with the spools, off-cuts, strips and cardboard covers sales training lasting up to 13 weeks.
The training includes used in production, are sold as recyclable material.
All money specific courses on sales techniques, managing the sales generated is donated to the chosen local charities of the year, portfolio, identifying potential customers and product which in the past has included local childrens homes, fire training.
Each new sales person is also given a mentor and brigade volunteers, and local schools.
In 2006, we donated an individual development plan.
more than US$17,000 to the Association to Aid Burnt Children and the Tulio Herrera Len fide Trujillo School, as a result In Argentina, we try to ensure everyone participates in at of collecting more than 490 tonnes of paper.
least one training activity each year.
We have implemented a Middle Management Development programme to encourage As well as the environmental and community benefits, self-development and continuous learning, and the Yell Publicidad benefits from the removal of previous editions Professional Development programme to ensure we retain of directories from circulation, avoiding confusion for people with high potential.
consumers between new and old adverts.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 57 pp p q p p g Our objectives for 2008 Yell UK Corporate practice Continue to support the Royal Berkshire Hospital Foundation Trust with further coaching and call-handling training support Maintain and develop close working relationships with 42 Trade Associations Grow the Yell for Enterprise initiative to increase support for new entrepreneurs funded by charitable organisations Environment Increase the level of recycled fibre content within our Yellow Pages directories to 52% Extend our Yellow Woods Challenge recycling programme for schools to 100 local authority areas across the UK Workplace Embed our Developing Potential Scheme across the company Roll out our Leadership programme to 174 senior managers Encourage Yell people to act as business mentors for the Yell for Enterprise initiative Community Work with the Princes Trust to host business workshops and continue our support for their 10k run Support our Community Champions to extend the amount of volunteering opportunities available to our people Help Marie Curie Cancer Care to raise 5 million in their Great Daffodil Appeal 2007 Involve 450,000 schoolchildren in the Yellow Woods Challenge 2007 58 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 pp p q p p g Yellow Book USA Continue to improve our training and development programmes Raise awareness of our community involvement policy and encourage greater employee participation in local community activities Set up programmes to reduce the average number of miles between paper plant and printing plant Yell Publicidad Implement the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System in our Madrid offices.
This will include developing an environment policy in line with that of Yell UK Measure and report our CO2 emissions fully, and identify possible opportunities for reduction Develop a community policy Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 59 pp p q p p g Contact us Yell Corporate Responsibility Yell Group plc Queens Walk Reading Berkshire RG1 7PT UK E responsibility@yellgroup.
com Yell Media E pressoffice@yellgroup.
com 60 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Directors reports Yell AR07 pp061-p074 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 11:03 am Page 61 Heres to being accountable The directors submit their reports for 2007.
4 Directors reports The Board 62 Directors report 64 Statement of directors responsibilities 65 Remuneration report 66
