Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility review Strategy and direction area with those best in class companies.
The delivery of the first part Our Group strategy is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder of a four year plan to achieve this has been incorporated into the value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company.
To achieve sustainable growth we must identify and manage long-term We will focus on improving performance year on year and set risks to our business including non-financial, operational and challenging objectives that move the Group further towards best reputational risks.
As a leading defence company we want to set practice in these priority areas.
To demonstrate our commitment standards for our industry in the area of corporate responsibility CR we have increased the proportion of senior executive performance and aspire to reach the standards set by companies in other sectors.
bonuses that are linked to improvements in performance in ethics As a global business we must ensure our approach is applied and safety.
In 2008, 12% of the potential bonus will be determined consistently across all of our operations, worldwide.
by performance in ethics and safety.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee will review progress against our objectives quarterly.
The Executive Committee met in May 2007 to review our CR priorities.
The workshop was supported by  PwC, who Governance of corporate responsibility provided information on best practice in CR among leading companies.
Our corporate responsibility objectives are delivered through our The Executive Committee considered issues that could have a business operations and managed through the Executive Committee.
significant impact on the sustainability of our business, either by The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible for providing directly impacting our ability to operate or by affecting our reputation oversight, governance and assurance.
This includes reviewing and and the level of trust stakeholders have in our Group.
Their analysis monitoring the processes that the Group uses to manage non-financial took into account the views of key stakeholders, including customers, risks.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees report on 2007 employees and investors.
activity can be found on page 63.
Ethics and safety were reconfirmed as our CR priorities and those During 2007 the Corporate Responsibility Committee met five times.
where the Group should aspire to a leadership position.
The Committee undertook a number of activities which included reviewing and approving the decision of the Executive Committee We recognise that to achieve a leadership position requires continual to prioritise ethics and safety as the key issues for the corporate progress.
A programme to address this began in 2007 and will responsibility agenda in 2008.
The Corporate Responsibility continue through 2008.
Key aspects of this are: Committee reviewed performance data on ethical business conduct, establishing an independent view of best practice for ethical safety and environment.
This included details from internal audits, business conduct in both the defence sector and across industry: employee surveys and operational assurance statements.
benchmarking safety performance across all industries not just the The Corporate Responsibility Committee met with the Woolf Committee defence sector: to discuss ethics in general and the role of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in relation to the prospective implementation and assurance establishing specific objectives on leadership behaviours especially of activity that may be recommended.
in the areas of ethics, safety and diversity: and External opinion setting management objectives in 2008 that drive us towards our External views help shape our approach to corporate responsibility desired leadership position in the areas of ethics, safety and diversity.
and also influence how we report progress.
This year, we asked The Woolf Committee see page 3 was established during 2007 three experienced corporate responsibility practitioners to review our to study and publicly report upon the Groups ethical policies and Corporate Responsibility Report and give their views on our corporate processes.
We will receive recommendations from the Woolf responsibility strategy and intended direction.
Participants were: Committee during 2008, which we believe will assist us in meeting Julia King, Vice President Corporate Responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline our ethics objectives.
Dawn Rittenhouse, Director of Sustainable Development, DuPont Progress towards a leadership position on safety commenced with a review of BAE Systems safety performance.
This considered both Mark Wade, formerly Head of Sustainable Development Policy, individual business level performance and benchmarking against Strategy and Reporting, Shell aerospace and defence sector companies and across other sectors The panel met in February 2008 and reviewed a draft copy of this considered to be best in class.
In conclusion, while we can years Corporate Responsibility report.
They made comments and demonstrate overall year on year improvement in safety performance, recommendations in three areas: corporate responsibility strategy our underlying business performance is not consistent.
While we and governance, reporting, and our approach to assurance.
perform at a similar level to a number of other defence sector companies we are behind the best in class group of companies.
We have developed a route to more closely align our performance in this BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 37 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Corporate responsibility objectives 2007 objectives What we achieved 2008 objectives Ethics Ethics awareness training has been Senior Leadership to communicate and Initial ethics awareness training to be introduced to new starter induction demonstrate commitment to high ethical completed by new starters within one processes.
New businesses are issued with the Develop and integrate a Group-wide code Initial ethics awareness training to be Groups ethics guide promptly after of conduct.
implemented within three months of acquisition and this is followed up with completion date of any acquisition.
Communicate and implement the response online or DVD training.
Survey to be undertaken to evaluate A survey was undertaken which indicated effectiveness of 2006 UK ethics awareness that 99% of UK employees have some training package.
Implement agreed awareness of our ethical standards.
Action corrective actions in 2007. plans to address areas identified for improvement have been put in place.
Safety, health and environment 2007 safety metrics to improve relative to 2006: A benchmarking study of BAE Systems Continue to drive performance in safety: businesses and external companies was Establish appropriate industry benchmarks Reduce days lost to work-related injuries by performed.
The targets thus derived are for each line of business to monitor 10% of the gap between 2007 performance those set within 2008 objectives.
performance and establish targets to move and external benchmark 2,000 days.
In 2007, we reduced the number of lost days Senior Leadership to demonstrate by more than 10% over 2006.
We continue to Group performance lost days metric to be commitment to safety by leading safety perform at a level better than the industry better than relevant industry average.
average, with 8,734 days lost due to workContinue to achieve an improvement related injury per 100,000 employees, Progress to benchmark safety performance year-on-year in injuries lost working time.
compared with the UK manufacturing against a five level Safety Maturity Matrix average of 25,000. all businesses to achieve Level 3 by the end of 2008 and have a plan in place to attain Level 5 by the end of 2011 Level 5 has been benchmarked against leading companies.
Workplace 85% of employee grievances under the UK 91% of employee grievances were resolved Create an environment that values and Respect at Work policy to be resolved at a local level during 2007. respects the contribution, based on merit, through local discussion without proceeding of all members of the communities in which Diversity action plans were implemented to the corporate process for formal we operate: within each of our businesses to investigation.
reflect their local communities and Demonstrate Senior Leadership commitment In each of the home markets, move towards recruitment populations.
to diversity in the workplace.
establishing a workforce reflective of the Establish a Group-wide Womens Forum.
national average in terms of gender mix and ethnic diversity, taking into account variations Evolve action plans to enhance diversity by region and industrial sector.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The panel was supportive of the way corporate responsibility strategy Our operations and CR impacts is developed at BAE Systems.
They considered that our selected priority areas of ethics and safety rightly reflect the key issues.
The panel recommended that BAE Systems should: Workplace ensure there is a solid foundation of values on which all employees We believe that all employees have the right to work in an environment frame decisions, large and small: where they are treated with dignity and respect.
We have processes in place that support employees if they feel that they are being subjected develop a roadmap including future aspirations and opportunities to inappropriate or unacceptable behaviour.
as well as challenging targets: We are committed to equality of opportunity for all employees and address key issues such as human rights and climate change: to creating a workplace where individual contribution is recognised.
provide greater understanding of the Groups processes for A diverse and inclusive workforce is an essential part in creating the preventing bribery and corruption: necessary innovative and progressive culture to achieve competitive advantage.
It also promotes the behaviours necessary to secure engage with a wider range of stakeholders: and successful partnerships with our customers and suppliers.
align its corporate responsibility reporting with the Global Reporting Investing in the training and development of employees at all levels Initiative guidelines.
of the Group is key to us maintaining high performance.
Training helps The panels full statement is included in our Corporate Responsibility our people develop their skills and capabilities.
It also enables us to Report.
We will develop the necessary plans to action these keep pace with changing technologies and continue to improve our recommendations and report on progress through our website and customer service.
in future Corporate Responsibility Reports.
In 2007 one of our corporate responsibility objectives was to move Monitoring our performance towards establishing a workforce reflective of the national average in We monitor our Corporate Responsibility performance through sector terms of gender mix and ethnic diversity, taking into account variations benchmarking to track our performance and help us better manage by region and industrial sector.
Each business developed an action key environmental and social impacts.
In 2007, BAE Systems plan which considered the demographics of the existing workforce, performance level in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index was the surrounding communities and that of the populations from which similar to our 2006 scoring.
The cultural influences and heritage within our six home markets requires different emphasis to achieve our overall aim.
For Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2007 2006 example, our diversity plans in South Africa are aligned with the Black Economic factors 69% 69% Economic Empowerment Agenda: our focus in the Kingdom of Saudi Environmental factors 90% 85% Arabia is on Saudisation of our workforce which is a programme for Social factors 71% 80% transferring skills from expatriates to local employees.
By the end of 2007 our Saudi workforce comprised more than 53% Saudi nationals.
We are reviewing the reasons for the lower social factors rating in 2007, which include the areas of labour practices, career development and Our diversity objectives for 2008 include awareness training for training, and charitable giving.
We will address areas for improvement senior leaders and the launch of a womens network.
This will provide during 2008. support for women across BAE Systems enabling them to share ideas and experiences and develop their careers.
Health and safety Our approach to safety is one of zero tolerance of an unsafe workplace and unsafe working practices.
Safety is one of our key corporate responsibility priorities for 2008.
Our goal is to be amongst the leaders for high safety standards both within our industry and measured against leading companies in other industrial sectors.
We recognise the risks associated with the variety of operations we conduct and aim to minimise these as far as possible.
All sites are required to comply with our Safety, Health and Environment policy and to demonstrate continuous improvement in performance through the setting and monitoring of targets.
Performance is reviewed through our business assurance processes and overseen by the Executive Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee on behalf of the board of directors.
In November 2007, a tragic incident during a flight testing exercise resulted in the death of one our employees.
We are working with the investigative authorities in connection with this incident.
Case study: In our Hattiesburg site in Mississippi, US, all employees have been appointed safety officers as part of a programme to raise awareness and encourage employees to report potential hazards.
Everyone in that business is now responsible for their own safety and the safety of those around them.
In 2007, there were more than 180 potential hazards reported and corrected each month.
This contributed to the site recording no injuries in 2007.
Ethical business conduct Ethical business conduct is fundamental to the reputation and success of BAE Systems.
We will not compromise on our ethical principles and policies.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 39 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility review continued In 2007, we invited Lord Woolf, the former Lord Chief Justice of England Our manufacturing and engineering operations, offices and products and Wales, to head an expert independent review committee to study have an impact on the environment.
This includes the use of natural and report on our policies and processes and make recommendations resources and raw materials as well as waste generation and aimed at achieving a leadership position in ethical business practice emissions.
We are committed to managing and minimising these amongst corporate industry peers.
More information on the Woolf impacts wherever practicable.
Committee can be found on page 3.
We have taken positive steps in relation to the management of We have training and awareness programmes in place to ensure environmental issues most notably to Product Environmental that employees understand how we do business and what is Protection, which has been incorporated in the Companys Lifecycle expected of them.
This helps to ensure that the design of a new product considers the environmental impact that it might have and We continue to roll out ethical awareness training to employees that steps are built into the design phase to mitigate the potential worldwide through brochures, online training, DVDs and class room impact through the products lifecycle.
At the end of 2007 training had been completed in Australia, South Africa, the UK and the US.
Our ethics DVD and online training have A specific area of focus for the Group is the REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical Substances been translated into Arabic and are being rolled out in Saudi Arabia.
A legislation which although EU-based will also affect our US products Swedish translation has been developed and will be introduced in 2008. which come to the UK.
We are working with our customer, the UK We changed our policy in 2007 to ensure new recruits receive Ministry of Defence, to share an understanding in this area and ethics awareness training within one month of joining the Group and develop a common approach.
employees of newly acquired businesses receive an ethics guide We are placing a specific emphasis on reducing our greenhouse promptly after acquisition and our ethics awareness training within gas emissions and have developed a number of energy reduction three months of joining the Group.
initiatives that include employee engagement, engineering initiatives All staff involved with business development are required to undertake and improved manufacturing efficiencies.
Our primary contribution a training course on the prevention of corruption and refresher training to greenhouse gasses is through the use of energy.
Over 5,500 employees have undertaken this training We participate in national initiatives to reduce defence sector impacts since 2001.
Training is tracked to help ensure compliance.
We have nine sites in the UK which participate in In 2007 we initiated a review of our ethical code of conduct to ensure the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and in 2007 we externally traded it remains appropriate for our changing business.
We will act on any 4,500 tonnes of carbon.
A key focus of our partnering approach with recommendations from the Woolf Committee and plan to introduce the UK Ministry of Defence will be the sustainable development of a revised code of conduct at the end of 2008. defence products and services.
Case study: We are members of the UK Defence Industry AntiCase study: To help reduce emissions in our UK Land Systems corruption Forum and, in the US, the Defense Industry Initiative DII business, every employee has been asked to Pledge A Tonne and on Ethics and Business Conduct.
In the UK, the Anti-corruption Forum a range of communication material has been provided to engage and has been developing common anti-corruption industry standards for educate employees and their families.
People are asked to sign up the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe.
This to make simple but effective changes to the way they conduct their year in the US, we participated in the DII working group, which includes day-to-day life, both at home and at work.
Daily actions such as leaving the co-ordination of the Defense Industry Benchmark ethics survey.
lights and heaters on, the way employees travel to work or travel whilst at work and how employees control the environment they live in, all Community and education contribute to the carbon footprint of each individual and the business.
We play an important role in the communities in which we operate.
In 2007, we invested approximately 6.1m in local communities Climate change is an important issue for all businesses, particularly around our sites, supporting charities and educational establishments.
those operating globally and one which the Group needs to address.
During 2007 our employees volunteered 4,310 days supporting local In 2008, we will measure our carbon footprint and establish a formal community projects.
position as to actions we would seek to take in reducing this footprint.
An area that is critical to the future sustainability of our business Working with others is education, specifically in the fields of science and engineering.
We recognise that our responsibilities extend beyond our own Every year the Group supports a wide range of education projects.
This includes contractors working on our sites, our In Australia, the UK, the US, and Saudi Arabia we run educational suppliers and partners.
We aim to work with all groups to mutually programmes that encourage young people at all stages of education improve standards.
A key area of focus in 2008 continues to be safety to take an interest in science and technology.
performance of contractors on our sites.
We intend to include this in our future external reporting on safety performance.
Case study: India partnership We have pledged 100,000 and committed to support the UK India Education & Research Initiative.
Case study: In the UK we are part of the 21st Century Supply Chain The initiative has been designed to give students in both India and SC21 initiative.
The objective of the initiative is to get all customers and the UK a better understanding of science and engineering.
Helping suppliers throughout the defence and aerospace industry to collaborate improve education links between the two countries will hopefully by using the same tools to improve performance and modernise working encourage greater economic collaboration.
This approach, where we are working closely with our industry peers, avoids duplication in key areas and will help us to achieve an Environment improved working culture based on openness, honesty and trust.
We operate globally, with operations and customers in many countries.
Stakeholders, particularly our employees, expect us to understand and respond to global challenges such as climate change and sustainable development.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1,2 Corporate responsibility recorded data summary We collect data on ethics, diversity, environment and health and safety to help us monitor our corporate responsibility performance and identify areas for improvement.
The data is recorded by the businesses and collated centrally for review.
Explanations of trends are provided on pages 42 and 43.
Specific notes are recorded below.
2005 2006 2007 Health & safety per 100,000 employees Major injuries recorded 55 47 48 3 Days recorded lost to work-related injuries 8,774 10,204 8,734 Total recorded injuries to all employees 6,009 4,788 4,454 Environment 4 Energy use Gwh 1,767 1,742 1,706 CO emissions million tonnes 0.58 0.57 0.55 2 Waste 000 tonnes 57 105 129 Waste recycled 000 tonnes 37 67 42 Volatile organic compound emissions tonnes 610 742 642 Ethics Ethics enquiries from employees 367 410 327 Diversity Gender diversity: Male employees 81% 80% 79% Female employees 19% 20% 21% Ethnic diversity: White 88% 87% 82% Non-white 12% 13% 18% Age diversity: Under 25 7% 7% 8% 26 to 35 18% 18% 17% 36 to 49 44% 42% 39% 50 to 59 25% 26% 27% 60 6% 7% 9% 1 This data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
2 In 2007 we acquired Armor Holdings.
The integration of corporate responsibility data from that business is underway and will be reported in 2008.
3 The decrease in 2007 over 2006 in days lost recorded due to work-related injuries reflects a much improved performance in our Surface Fleet Solutions business, which reduced the number of days lost by 75% over 2006 levels.
4 Our energy use is directly related to volumes of product manufacture and throughput of specific projects.
The decrease shown in energy use, despite increases in volume and throughput, reflects a specific focus at a number of businesses on energy management and efficient operations.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 41 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Corporate responsibility review continued Health and safety Environment The overall performance on safety has improved over 2006.
This Environmental impacts are directly related to the stage and volume reflects a strong performance is some businesses, notably Surface of production or manufacture and throughput of specific projects.
A key focus for 2008 is to ensure a consistent Given the potential diversity of influences we report data as absolute improvement in safety performance across all businesses.
values and have provided specific explanation of the variance below.
This occurred during a flight training exercise CO2 emissions million tonnes at a UK facility.
The investigation into the incident is ongoing.
2 Major injuries as defined under the UK Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 4 Energy use is down 2% to 1,706 Gwh 2006 1,742 Gwh.
CO2 emissions down 3.5% to Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
5 6 Total injuries Waste 000 tonnes Recycled waste 000 tonnes 150 75 8000 120 60 6000 90 45 4000 60 30 2000 30 15 0 0 0 05 06 07 05 06 07 2005 2006 2007 Year Year Year 5 In 2007 we responded to Urgent Volatile organic compound Operation Requirements from the US 3 Cause of injury % 5 emissions tonnes Department of Defense for armoured vehicles.
The resultant increase in throughput primarily impacted our Steel Slips, trips or falls on same level 750 Products and Mobility and Protection Falls from height up to and including two metres Systems divisions in the US.
This Struck by moving, including flying falling, object 600 resulted in an increase in waste being Struck by moving vehicle generated in Steel Products and in usage Strike against something fixed or stationary 450 of paints and solvents at Mobility and Injured while handling, lifting or carrying Protection Systems.
The resulting Falls from height over two metres emissions of Volatile Organic 300 Exposure to an explosion Compounds associated with paint and Contact with moving machinery solvent use increased accordingly.
150 Exposure to, or contact with, a harmful substance 6 The increase in the level recycled waste Contact with electricity or electrical discharge in 2006 related to a specific soil 0 remediation project at Chorley in the UK.
05 06 07 Year 3 Primary causes of injuries remain slips, trips and falls from height.
We continue to work on preventative measures and raising employee awareness of potential risks.
Days lost to work-related injuries is shown on page 26.
The above data is derived from internal recording systems and is not subject to external verification or audit.
baesyste ms. com Energy use Gwh CO2 emissions million tonnes Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Diversity Community We are working to change the demographics within our business In 2007, our total community investment was approximately 6.1m.
but recognise that this will occur slowly over time.
The sustainability This figure includes cash and in-kind donations to charity as well as of our workforce and our ability to win and fulfil global contracts our direct support for communities and education across the world.
depends on us being able to recruit and retain talented people from all backgrounds.
Our diversity objectives for 2008 include awareness training for senior leaders and the launch of a Group-wide womens network.
7 Gender diversity % Age diversity % What we contribute to % Focus of contribution % UK, US, Australia, Saudi Arabia and UK, US, Australia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa South Africa and Sweden 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 05 06 07 05 06 07 Year Year Education Arts Community investments Male Under 25 50 to 59 Social welfare Economic Charitable gifts Female 26 to 35 60 Emergency relief Environment Sponsorship 36 to 49 Health Other 8 Ethnic diversity % Ethnic diversity % UK, US and South Africa Saudi Arabia 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 05 06 07 06 07 Year Year Non-white Not declared Saudi nationals White Asian White European 7 Due to legislation in Sweden we cannot report gender diversity information for this country.
8 Due to legislation in Australia and Sweden we cannot report ethnic diversity information for these countries.
