Stakeholder Review CUSTOMERS INvESTORS EMPLOyEES SOCIETy SUPPLIERS Society ISS wants to conduct its business around the world in For ISS, sustainability is part of day-to-day operations and a sustainable way.
As a global company operating in 50 daily interaction with society in general, locally as well countries and employing more than 438,000 employees, ISS as globally.
principles and policies form the framework of influences the lives of many people and has a considerable corporate sustainability.
Conduct in day-to-day business is interface with societies around the world.
crucial for putting the principles into practice, and ensuring a high standard of sustainable behaviour.
the following section describes ISSs relations with stakeholder groups, which are all contributors to and beneficiaries this presents challenges to any company wanting to do from the value creation at ISS.
For information about risk business in a sustainable way, because economic, social factors that could adversely effect the interests of stakeholders, and environmental issues are inevitably interconnected.
For please refer to the Risk management description on pages ISS, however, it is essential to build and maintain relations 42-44 of this report.
based on commitment and trust with various stakeholders in society.
ISS believes that this is beneficial to society as well as the company.
therefore, ISS continuously works to ensure that employees and business partners are treated fairly, that environmental impacts of ISSs operations are reduced, and that ISS acts as a good corporate citizen in the communities in which it operates.
StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 51 As an example of corporate citizenship, employees of ISS support and protect international human rights and Spain created the foundation una Sonrisa Ms one More to ensure that they are not complicit in abuse Smile in 2007, with the objective of promoting the uphold the freedom of association, recognition of creation of stable employment in third World countries.
collective bargaining, elimination of forced labour, this will be achieved by funding projects giving access child labour and discrimination at work to professional training and education, access to funding implement a precautionary approach to environmental through micro-credits and access to local marketplaces.
challenges, promote environmental responsibility and environmentally friendly technologies the foundation is supported by the two main trade unions work against all forms of corruption, including extortion in Spain CC.
their General Secretaries have and bribery.
kindly agreed to become patrons of the foundation.
the foundation is financed through voluntary donations by ISS ISS joined the Amnesty Business Forum in 2002 to discuss employees.
All employees are asked to contribute the money human rights protection with Amnesty International denmark from decimal points on their salaries.
More than 1,000 ISS and a group of companies headquartered in denmark, and employees have already joined the foundation.
At the moISS maintains the dialogue with Amnesty International ment, the foundation collects over euR 2,000 per month, and regarding human rights issues.
ISS Spain is supporting the initiative by covering all administration costs.
therefore, everything collected goes directly ISS is also among the founding members of Rdet for Breto the projects.
dygtig erhvervsudvikling the danish Council for sustainable business development.
the council was established in 2006 the first country financed by the Foundation is ecuador by a group of danish companies to strengthen sustainable from where the largest number of immigrants working in development of products and services.
the project consists of the creation of six micro companies that will provide employment for 371 the ISS code of conduct people.
In 2003, the Board of directors adopted an ISS Code of Conduct.
united nations global compact ISS has been a signatory and supporter of the united nations the Code of Conduct constitutes the key operational framework Global Compact since its inception in 1999.
In line with for ISSs proper conduct and corporate responsibility concernmembership regulations, ISS endeavours to comply with ing the protection of human rights, areas of employee conthe ten Global Compact principles, and participates in the duct, anti-corruption and bribery, compliance with competition Global Compact nordic network, which assembles nordic rules, business partner relations and workplace standards in Global Compact members.
accordance with the un Global Compact principles.
the core of the un Global Compact comprises principles Since the adoption of the ISS Code of Conduct, ISS has comconcerning human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption and municated and enforced its standards across the Group.
the Global Compact calls for code has been widely distributed throughout the Group and companies to: only the smallest and most recent member countries have 52 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW not yet translated the Code of Conduct into local languages.
a large employer, ISS has both the capability and the ISSs commitment to human rights protection has been motivation to conduct training and reintegration programmes communicated to suppliers, major customers and employees for immigrants, long-term unemployed or other groups for by means of leaflets, meetings, management training whom it is difficult to gain access to the labour market.
ISS sessions, employee magazines etc.
Local country managers often forms partnerships with local authorities in order to are responsible for compliance.
When acquiring new establish and run employment programmes with this aim.
companies and entering new markets and joint venture opportunities, ISS promotes business conducted in ISS has taken initiatives in this field in more than two-thirds compliance with the ISS Code of Conduct.
positions are found both in administrative and service-operative functions.
human and labour rights The UN Global Compact calls for companies to: For example, in 2007, ISS denmark was awarded a diversity prize by the City of Copenhagen, denmarks capital city, support and protect international human rights and due to ISSs work on welcoming immigrants from diverse ensure that they are not complicit in abuse backgrounds into the company and make them part of an uphold the freedom of association, recognition of effective service solution for customers regardless of ethnic collective bargaining, and elimination of forced labour, origin, language skills, religious beliefs etc.
In 2007, ISS child labour and discrimination at work denmark was also one of three nominees for the national Integration Award co-sponsored by the danish Ministry of ISS profoundly respects and aims to support and protect employment.
Approximately 38% of ISSs danish workforce human rights.
ISS recognises labour rights and maintains close comprises immigrants from 125 different nationalities.
ties and an open dialogue with unions.
In 2003, ISS signed a letter of agreement with union network International Since establishing operations in India in 2005, ISS has worked unI committing itself to 12 fundamental principles in the to create more awareness of and focus on better working workplace.
the principles are based on ILo conventions and conditions through training and career development.
ISS cover the following areas: Forced bonded labour, discrimiIndia hires employees who have dropped out of school and nation, child labour, freedom of association, unions, legal live in slums.
these people experience a major change in minimum wages, working hours, health and safety, harassment, lifestyle when working in an office.
ISS dedicates a significant training, employers' obligations and environmental protection.
amount of time and resources to training these employees unI has in turn pledged to address and disclose companies to follow a career with the company.
ISS India has many that undermine fundamental standards in the service industry.
employees who were originally hired as cleaning assistants A renewal of the agreement between ISS and unI is currently but are now working as managers for the company.
during 2007, Mexico was hit by several natural disasters ISS uses no forced, compulsory or child labour and tolerates such as storms and hurricanes.
the winter was especially no form of discrimination.
hard with storms resulting in huge floods.
ISS Mexico supplied food and clothing to all employees who were directly ISS takes an active role in employing vulnerable groups.
As affected by the disaster.
ISS Mexico has also made sure that StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 53 all employees are registered in the social system and can Cleaning excellence works to reduce the environmental receive medical attention in case of sickness.
impact from the use of chemicals through the ISS Q3e cleaning standard.
Focusing on Quality, environment, environmental protection employees, and efficiency Q3e provides savings in The Global Compact calls for companies to implement a terms of chemicals and water usage.
precautionary approach to environmental challenges, and promote environmental responsibility and environmentally through office Support Services, ISS offers scanning of friendly technologies.
documents to electronic format and thereby reduces the amount of paper copies.
Additionally, ISS offers paper environmental protection is a key component of ISSs destruction i. e. paper is first shredded and then sent for overall approach to sustainable development.
environmental policy provides a Group-wide framework for local environmental policies and initiatives and spells out Anti-corruption ISSs key environmental objectives: The Global Compact calls for companies to work against minimise emissions and effluents primarily arising from all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery.
transport and use of chemicals in cleaning ISS welcomes the tenth Global Compact principle on minimise the use of energy and water anti-corruption.
the ISS Code of Conduct expresses a clear reduce, manage and recycle waste commitment to combating all forms of corruptive practice.
use safe products and materials through the ISS Code of Conduct, the anti-corruption position is communicated to the entire Group.
ISSs country organisations implement local environmental policies and management systems based on corporate during 2007, the ISS university hosted a range of training policies.
In most countries, the environmental policies seminars covering sustainability and the Code of Conduct.
and systems are already in place and many of them are ISo More than 200 ISS managers from around the world 14001 certified.
In addition, environmental responsibility is attended the seminars.
At these sessions, ISSs approach promoted through staff training and awareness programmes.
to sustainability, including anti-corruption was presented and the participants were engaged in dilemma training on ISS aims at increasing fuel efficiency by raising the share these issues.
of diesel-fuelled cars in its fleet management programme.
diesel-fuelled cars account for almost 82% of the entire the appointment of ombudsmen in the local organisations ISS fleet and the aim is to gradually increase this percentage.
has improved the procedure for raising concerns, for examApproximately 3,700 cars were added to the car fleet during ple about all types of breaches of the ISS Code of Conduct.
2007, so with 18,000 vehicles on the roads, the high proporemployees can confidentially report what they see as tion that are fuelled by diesel has lowered fuel consumption breaches of the Code or other wrongful behaviour to the per kilometre, offering a potential for considerable environlocal ISS ombudsman, if normal organisational reporting mental benefits.
54 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW customers Service integration and extension the customer interface in facility Services ISSs experience is that both owners and users of facilities can benefit from outsourcing support services.
Customers can optimise their non-core services by outsourcing and applying CATERING SERvICES ISSs core business model.
potential cost savings and quality improvements generally depend on whether customers ClEANING outsource single services or outsource a range of services to SERvICES OffICE SuppORT a supplier of IFS solutions.
the more services and the higher SERvICES pROpERTy the level of service integration, the greater the potential SERvICES savings and quality improvements.
SECuRITy therefore, ISSs ability to integrate and deliver a broad range SERvICES of support services to customers through a single point of contact provides a competitive advantage.
As part of the service SERvICE solution, ISS can manage the entire service delivery and enMANAGEMENT sure staff flexibility, quality of service and reliability in a cost THIRD pARTy INTEGRATION SupplIERS efficient manner, allowing customers to direct their resources towards developing and managing their core businesses.
THE CuSTOMERS ISS expects the market for integrated services to outperform SITES AND OpERATION growth on average compared with single services.
In 2007, ISS continued to focus on the transformation towards multiintegrated service delivery by building IFS competences to suit the increasing customer demand.
As a foundation for the transformation, ISS continued to deliver and develop singleservice excellence.
StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 55 contracts this approach will be reinforced during 2008 to supplement ISS holds a strong position in both the private and public the existing in-country and Corporate Client capacity and sectors.
the customer portfolio spans countries and indusolutions.
stries and includes a mix of customers ranging from office buildings, manufacturing sites to airports and hospitals.
ISS ISS strives to handle both new opportunities in the marketholds a strong position in most markets and sectors, and place and develop existing national clients with a global services a number of the largest national and international presence.
this strategy has been successful, as several organisations.
ISS's contracts with customers vary in scope, new corporate clients were added to the portfolio and complexity and length of contract, thereby entailing different ISS has now reached a good position on the international opportunities and exposures.
the existing customer base represents a major growth potential as customers are increasingly quality consolidating the number of suppliers in regions or even Customer relations rely on ISSs ability to deliver the globally.
Following the implementation of new Corporate agreed quality.
For larger contracts, the quality of the service Clients the know-how related to servicing these clients has delivery is often measured against defined quality benchbeen considerably enhanced and ISS is now well-established marks stipulated in Service Level Agreements SLA.
Most in terms of handling this kind of contract.
ISS operations have adopted a formalised quality approach.
Generally, ISS uses ISo-certified quality management sysone of the key requests from ISSs corporate clients is to tems, and a number of countries have implemented total streamline the service delivery and service standards across quality and Business excellence models.
In this respect, ISS holds a unique position based developing a corporate quality system using best practices to on its global presence, corporate competence centres, be implemented in major contracts.
ongoing knowledge exchange among the ISS countries and continuous development of local self-perform service International customers and IfS implementation capacity.
In addition, ISS continues to implement standard the central IFS Implementation function established in management reporting and It solutions across the business, parallel with Corporate Clients in 2006 has proven successwith our Corporate Clients supporting performance monitorful.
A number of new accounts have been developed, also ing against agreed key performance Indicators kpIs.
ISS in countries with single-service capacity but where IFS undertakes benchmarking of its performance to secure skills were less developed.
Furthermore, the rate of ongoing improvement of the relationships and to improve enquiries for pan-country proposals increased in 2007 contract wins and retention rates.
this structured approach as the market became aware of this central point of contact.
also allows clients to benchmark against market standards.
56 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW PARIS, fRAnce, eIffeL tOweR OuSSOuLI nIAKAte, MOhAMed fRedJ, JOAO eStAquIO And chRIStOPhe gAuBeRt cLeAnIng employees In 2007, the number of ISS employees rose by 47,000, an the philosophy is to offer tailored training at all functional increase of more than 12% compared with the year before.
A levels in order to enhance employee skills and upward large number of these additional employees joined as a result mobility of staff.
Much attention is devoted to developing of ISS entering the uS market but an even higher number the first management layer e. g. team leaders, supervisors resulted from organic growth.
At the end of 2007, ISS had and contract managers, who have the immediate staff and more than 438,000 employees in europe, Asia, pacific, Latin customer interface.
Most training is conducted at ISS acadAmerica and the uSA.
emies and training facilities in national and local operations.
human capital two participants from the first intake of the ISS MBA prothe ISS Human Capital Vision to be the preferred employer gramme graduated in 2007. the eleven participants of the in our industry was made explicit in 2007.
Aligned with second intake commenced their dissertation process and the the Group strategy, it focuses on: upgrading leadership and last two intakes continued with their studies.
In line with management capabilities, enhancing customers' service Group strategy, it was decided to decentralise the MBA proexperience, integrating acquired businesses, and ensuring gramme and to work locally with universities and business competitiveness through cost efficiency.
the HR strategy will be implemented through ISS Internato a large extent, ISS has completed the roll-out of the tional HR Standards, which will be the future framework IFS concept in 2007 through the IFS Academy.
the initial for local HR initiatives.
to ensure relevance, human resource need for IFS knowledge has thereby been met, and the IFS executives from across the Group collaborated on  team and local initiatives are taking over.
A ing these minimum standards during the International HR master class for top management was developed to provide Community meetings.
the other main topics were employee general IFS training at strategic level.
As in previous years, appraisals and performance management, which are to be the ISS university programme portfolio consisted of internal implemented in 2008.
A new web-based knowledge sharing and external seminars designed in cooperation with suppliplatform was introduced to facilitate international relations.
ers such as IMd, Henley Management College and InSeAd.
the management introduction programme, ISS Advantage, training remains the cornerstone in the Human Capital dominated the activities, but separate training in disciplines Strategy.
Resources are invested in staff and management such as Integration of acquired businesses and negotiation development ranging from basic skills training through skills was also delivered.
during the year, approximately middle management programmes to full corporate MBAs.
700 senior managers and specialists from the entire Group 1 Employee indicators 2007 2006 2005 Number of employees 438,100 391,400 310,800 Share of employees working full-time 68% 66% 61% Total employee turnover 55% 51% 50% Share of employees with less than one year of seniority 37% 33% 34% Share of employees with one to five years of seniority 37% 39% 38% Share of employees with five years or more of seniority 26% 28% 28% 1 The figures are unaudited 58 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW ISS implements International hR Standards to help improve performance ISS is a people business.
Well-trained and highly motivated emthe job and received introduction training or has received ployees are vital for running a successful business with superior a rejection performance and competitive costs.
Therefore, during 2006 and 2007, ISS International HR Community worked on defining key Employee Appraisals and Reviews focus areas.
This work resulted in the first set of ISS International It is our intention to develop our organisation through HR Standards which is to be taken into account in future local developing the people in it and to gain commitment in business strategies.
order to maximise individual performance Efforts to develop and grow the business and improve performance Motivation and loyalty focus on people management and are not only a question of The Service Profit Chain is the backbone of the HR strategy treating employees well.
This initiative therefore considers where because satisfied employees are a precondition for retaining ISS is today, as well as future initiatives.
customers and creating value Firstly, all ISS units must incorporate each of the 11 focus areas in Employee Relations their HR strategies in order to be an attractive employer.
Managers and employees treat each other with mutual respect and leadership is exercised to empower all employees to act Secondly, the requirements defined under each of the eleven focus areas serve as minimum standards across ISS.
The timing of the Training and Development implementation of the standards will naturally vary according to Ensures constant high-quality service delivery by improving job local business environments.
performance and by preparing employees for new challenges These standards are made very explicit.
However, as many countries Talent Management are already well above the minimum requirements, they will also Our talent consists of current and future high performers who are serve to underline the ISS philosophy in terms of people manageentrepreneurs in spirit and who challenge conventional thinking ment.
Managing Sickness and Absenteeism In line with the geographic and cultural diversity of ISS, the We ensure that the working environment is healthy and does decentralised structure will be supported.
Consequently, this is not not contribute to sickness a roll-out of one best practice or a universal manual on the issue.
Reporting and Monitoring Establishing international minimum standards will ensure that Provides tangible evidence of the value added by HR initiatives.
HR strategies are aligned with the business strategy, and that To ensure that HR has a direct impact on business results, efforts competitive advantages are gained by developing and retaining are systematically measured our employees.
HR Support for M&A and Contract Integration The goal is that by the end of 2009, all countries will be in full HR issues are taken into account from the initial stages of compliance with ISS International HR Standards.
the acquisition process and form an integral part of the value proposition ISS International HR Standards ISS always operates in compliance with local laws and regulations, Health and Safety and the goal is that local HR strategies reflect this initiative.
ISS will It is a shared responsibility that rules and regulations on health continue the implementation during 2008 and 2009 to make sure and safety are always respected that all countries are in compliance with each of the 11 topics.
Remuneration, Benefits and Incentives Recruitment As part of the employment relationship, we pay the correct The recruitment process continues until the applicant has started salary on time StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 59 attended a total of 38 workshops and programmes at ISS another perspective on employee loyalty within ISS.
approximately 63% of the Groups employees had been with ISS for more than one year.
positive organic growth caused the growth ambitions in the Group strategy have increased this percentage to fall in comparison with 2006, however, the the emphasis on talent management and succession planning.
number of employees with more than one years seniority A performance management system has been developed for increased by 12%.
this purpose, which provides an overview while encouraging performance through managing by objectives.
the system Managing attendance has been introduced to the Group head office and will be Health and safety is a Group-wide focus area.
All ISS rolled out to the country management teams during 2008. countries have individual strategic business incentives to improve their health and safety to retain and recruit employee loyalty employees, comply with local laws and regulations and the service industry in general has high levels of employee minimise insurance expenses.
As a result, several local turnover, as part of the industry is often considered suitable health and safety initiatives have been implemented, for short-term or secondary employment.
ISS pursues a range e. g. a number of countries have implemented projects to of strategies to retain its employees by offering more fullminimise sick leave and increase employee well-being.
time and daytime work, multi-task jobs, teamwork, skills development, career opportunities, leisure activities etc.
In equal opportunities 2007, the share of full-time employees working 25 hours or ISS rewards its people solely on the basis of merit.
this indicator is important, as, on recruiting, developing and promoting ISS, operations focus on average, full-time employees develop stronger ties with ISS.
individual capabilities and qualifications of a candidate and the distribution of employee seniority in years provides under no circumstances on the persons gender, age, ethnic Immigrants in management ISS Denmark has established a management training programme for employees from immigrant backgrounds.
The goal is to train 300 employees over a period of four years to fill management positions.
Experience shows that employees with non-Danish backgrounds face a complex variety of challenges in order to become managers.
A lack of language and computer skills is the most tangible challenge.
Reluctance within the organisation or amongst customers is an issue, and there is a widespread tendency among ethnic minorities to have limited career aspirations.
These challenges have a high impact and are much more difficult to address.
By matching each talent with an ethnic Danish mentor from within the organisation, awareness in general is created and hopefully, traditional barriers will be reduced.
"""Approximately 40 percent of our staff come from non-Danish backgrounds, but they comprise less than five percent of our managers."
We cannot accept that our management teams do not reflect the mix of our staff in general.
"We consider it our responsibility to contribute to development and integration, "" says HR Director Finn vestergaard from ISS Denmark."
60 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW Suppliers origin, religion, political views etc.
thanks to the corporate a strong relationship with the suppliers of iSS remains culture and aided by language courses and adapted training an integral part of iSSs service delivery.
internationally at materials, today iSS is an employer of choice for many immiGroup level as well as locally, iSS is working to reduce the grants and ethnic minorities.
in countries such as Belgium, overall number of suppliers and instead establish strategic denmark, France, norway, Sweden and the united kingdom, supplier partnerships in key areas.
working with a few iSS is among the largest employers of ethnic minorities.
preferred suppliers has a positive impact on iSSs cost efficiency and gives an increased level of delivery European Works Council certainty.
employee and trade union relations are a natural part of a people-centred business such as iSS.
the corporate policy the use of strategic suppliers also provides the best guarantee of involvement and dialogue is applied locally in the country that safe and effective products are used, ensuring a stable operations.
established in 1995, the european works Council quality and equally importantly minimising the risk of ewC is a forum for dialogue between iSS executives and employee hazards.
in return, the strategy offers documented employee representatives from across europe.
growth opportunities for the selected suppliers.
a total of 13 countries as well as representatives from the Group procurement danish union 3F and the union network international in 2007, Corporate procurement sustained its focus on took part in the 2007 annual meeting.
the participants increasing the co-operation with the established strategic primarily discussed safety on the work floor and the introinternational suppliers.
this was reflected through increased duction of new iSS uniforms.
negotiations on a new agreeco-operation in all countries.
Furthermore, additional ment between iSS and ewC were initiated but the final strategic suppliers were added within green cleaningresult is pending.
Green chemicals in ISS France In order to increase the move in the direction of environmentally friendly products being used in ISS France, the international supplier JohnsonDiversey presented a range of eco-labelled products in France in 2007.
The ECO-label is symbolised by a flower and is a standard defined by the European Union for environmentally friendly products and services.
The costs of verifying and documenting a product to retain the French ECO-label is substantial, and hence only large producers of cleaning chemicals can be expected to qualify.
The Country Manager and Divisional Cleaning Director of ISS France decided to adopt the ECO-label products into the ISS range.
In 2007, a nationwide bank with more than 250 sites entered into an agreement with ISS France and specifically requested ECO-label chemicals.
The President of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, has presented the Grenelle fide lenvironnement policy targeted specifically at enforcing a more green or environmentally friendly policy.
The aim is to reduce pollution in chemical use, car exhausts and other areas.
The business potential for cleaning companies which can successfully implement a green profile is very promising and the future looks bright, explains the Purchase Manager for ISS France.
Stakeholder review | annual report 2007 61 the three largest international suppliers all experienced our global car manufacturer and global leasing procurement substantial increases between 10% and 50% in their agreements were re-negotiated in 2007 as they were due business with ISS.
no strategic suppliers were replaced to expire at 31 december 2007. during 2007, ISS obtained during the year.
tenders from the two existing global car manufacturers and succeeded in closing new three-year agreements with both fleet management parties.
ISS also successfully re-negotiated its global leasing Since 2004, ISS has operated a fleet management programme agreement to continue for another three years.
Finally, our with two global car manufacturers and one global leasing agreement with the global fleet management service provider company.
during 2005, the programme was rolled out in was re-negotiated, to continue for two years.
All these new 14 european countries covering more than 15,000 vehicles.
agreements commenced at 1 January 2008. the fleet management programme has been expanded since then and now covers 17 countries and more than In 2007, ISS Australia joined the programme.
the roll-out 17,000 vehicles, corresponding to approximately 95% of of the fleet management programme will continue in 2008, the ISS fleet.
with the goal of eventually covering all ISS vehicles.
LOndOn, unIted KIngdOM SunBORn hOteL SOuSA MARIA JASMIn, cLeAnIng 62 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 Investors Shareholders In 2007, ISS established dkk 8.5 billion euR 1,140 million ISS is indirectly owned by funds advised by eQt partners of additional senior credit facilities as part of the refinancing and Goldman Sachs Capital partners that hold 54% and of a portion of the Groups existing debt and to raise additional 44% of the share capital, respectively.
In addition, certain funding for future acquisitions.
At 31 december 2007, ISS members of the Board of directors, the executive Group had senior credit facilities of dkk 22.7 billion under which Management and a number of senior officers of ISS hold dkk 17.3 billion were drawn and dkk 1.5 billion was approximately 2% of the share capital through director allocated to support performance bonds issued by operating and management participation programmes.
At 31 december the available undrawn acquisition facilities amounted to dkk 3.1 billion.
the on 31 december 2007, the share capital of ISS amounted senior credit facilities include customary loan covenant to dkk 100 million, consisting of 100,000,001 shares.
All covenants have been complied with in 2007.
Bonds the senior lenders comprise a number of international banks In May 2006, ISS issued euR 454 million of 8.875% suband institutional investors.
the senior credit facilities mature ordinated notes and euR 850 million of floating-rate subin 2012 and 2013. ordinated notes.
In July 2007, the floating-rate subordinated notes were fully redeemed in connection with refinancing Second lien facility a portion of the Groups existing long-term debt.
In 2007, ISS established dkk 4.5 billion euR 600 million of second lien facility as part of the refinancing of ISS ISS Global A S ISS Global, a wholly owned subsidiary Holdings floating-rate subordinated notes.
the second of ISS, listed a euro Medium term note eMtn programme lien facility includes customary loan covenant clauses.
on the Luxembourg Stock exchange in 2003. under this All covenants have been complied with in 2007. programme, ISS Global has issued senior unsecured bonds in two tranches, of which euR 850 million mature in the second lien lenders comprise a number of international September 2010 and euR 500 million mature in december institutional investors.
the second lien facility matures in 2014 and were outstanding at 1 January 2007.
In connection with the refinancing in July 2007, ISS accepted credit ratings tender offers for approximately euR 390 million of the notes Standard & poors have assigned a B long-term credit that will mature in 2014.
Consequently, a total of approxirating to ISS and its subsidiaries, ISS Global and ISS A S, mately euR 960 million was outstanding under the eMtn and Moodys have assigned ISS and ISS A S a B2 corporate programme as of 31 december 2007. rating.
Senior credit facilities Moodys have assigned the subordinated notes issued by on 1 January 2007, ISS had committed senior credit facilities ISS a Caa1 rating, and Standard & poors have assigned the of dkk 14.1 billion under which dkk 9.8 billion were subordinated notes issued by ISS and the bonds issued drawn.
under ISS Globals eMtn programme a Brating.
StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 63 corporate credit Ratings Standard & Poors B Moodys B2 ISS holding A S bonds Issuer ISS Holding A S Bloomberg ISS DC Standard & Poors rating BMoodys Caa1 Listing Luxembourg Amount outstanding EUR 454 million Maturity date 15 May 2016 Coupon 8.875% ISIN securities code XS0253470644 Reuters DK025347064 Lead managers Citigroup, Goldman Sachs global A S eMtn bonds Issuer ISS Global A S Bloomberg ISS DC Standard & Poors rating BListing Luxembourg eMtns due 2010 Amount outstanding EUR 850 million Maturity date 18 September 2010 Coupon 4.75% ISIN securities code XS0176317054 Reuters DK017631705 Lead managers HSBC, Nordea, Socit Generale eMtns due 2014 Amount outstanding EUR 110 million Maturity date 8 December 2014 Coupon 4.50% ISIN securities code XS0206714247 Reuters DK020671424 Lead managers Deutsche Bank, Nordea, Socit Generale 64 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StAkeHoLdeR ReVIeW PRAgue, cZech RePuBLIc PRAgue AIRPORt JOSef RudOLf And JIR ZAch cLeAnIng
