Letter to our Stakeholders For the ISS Group, 2007 was characterised by profitable In 2007, ISS continued the development of single-service growth, expansion of operations into new strategically excellence concepts and initiatives for knowledge and important geographies and broadening of the service offering.
Furthermore, ISS established a global Corporate Client organisation to drive new sales, to operate In line with ISSs overall vision to lead Facility Services and support multinational clients and to further support the globally by leading Facility Services locally, the Group development of Integrated Facility Services.
In 2007, ISS also continued to develop towards providing more advanced initiated the Service Culture the ISS Way programme Integrated Facility Services solutions based on best-into further define and develop a strong and characteristic class single services offered within the five business pillars, corporate culture and an ISS approach to service manageCleaning, Catering, property Services, office Support, and ment for all country organisations.
Group Coo Flemming Schandorff, who has served ISS for ISS maintained its operational focus on profitability, organic more than 30 years, decided to retire at the end of March growth and cash flow while continuing investments in the 2008.
We wish to thank Flemming for his significant and business through acquisitions, e. g. in the two new ISS highly valuable contribution to ISS over the years and wish countries, the uSA and taiwan.
him the best for the future.
For the fourth consecutive year, ISS improved its organic during 2007, ISS welcomed employee number 400,000 and growth rate, from 5.5% in 2006 to 6.0% in 2007. the organic by the end of the year, that number had grown to 438,000 growth was fuelled by positive performances in all regions, people worldwide, underlining that ISS is not only a people with Asia, Latin America and Central and eastern europe company but also one of the biggest employers in europe delivering double-digit organic growth rates.
and in many of the individual countries with ISS operations.
on behalf of the management of ISS, we would like to ISS emphasises that the Groups growth is based on operawelcome the many new employees who joined the company tional efficiency and profitability.
In 2007, this resulted in during 2007, and to express our gratitude to all our employees the highest annual operating margin before other items for for their dedicated work.
they are the primary reason for the more than a decade: 6.0%, up from 5.8% the year before.
operating profit before other items increased by dkk 0.6 billion, or 19% compared with 2006. net cash inflow from operating activities increased from dkk 3.2 billion to dkk Yours faithfully, 3.7 billion.
total Group revenue reached just under dkk 64 billion, another record and a 15% increase from 2006.
Revenue from Cleaning grew by 8%, while Cleanings share of total revenue decreased from 57% to 54%, illustrating the continued broadening of ISSs service offering.
the strategic development to become the leading provider of Integrated Facility Services was illustrated by the fact that IFS solutions accounted for 15% of total Group revenue in 2007. during the year, ISS completed 67 acquisitions worldwide aimed at strengthening the Groups service offering and pursuing opportunities in new geographies.
the most Sir Francis Mackay Jrgen Lindegaard significant acquisition was Sanitors Inc. in the uSA.
Chairman Group Chief executive officer LetteR to ouR StAkeHoLdeRS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 5 MALMO, Sweden dAIMLeR chRySLeR eLVIn MuLABdIc, fRedRIK LARSSOn, LOttA wALLStRM And JAn fLOd, PROPeRty SeRVIceS
