Corporate Social Responsibility Helical Bar plc recognises and acknowledges that the conduct of its business has an impact on its employees, its partners, its customers and suppliers and the economy, community and environment of its property portfolio.
An indication of the Companys commitment to good corporate social responsibility is its inclusion on the FTSE4Good UK Index, a benchmark index of companies which meet criteria set down by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service on environmental, social and ethical performance.
The criteria established by EIRIS encompass corporate governance, environment, human rights, stakeholder issues, employee issues and customers and suppliers.
The Companys corporate governance policies are noted on pages 27 to 30 and on the environment on page 23.
The Company has no business activities in any countries which have unacceptable human rights records.
The Companys relationship with its key stakeholders, its shareholders, is noted on page 29.
Employees Helical Bar plc is committed to non-discrimination in all its forms and supports the training and development of all its employees.
The Company actively encourages participation in the ownership of the business through the operation of a Share Incentive Plan authorised by shareholders at the 2002 AGM.
This Plan replaced the Profit Sharing Scheme which had operated since 1997.
All employees are eligible to benefit from Company contributions into personal pension plans or into the Companys Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Statement of General Health and Safety Policy Helical Bars policy is to develop a culture throughout its organisation that is committed to the prevention of injuries and ill health to its employees or others that may be affected by its activities.
The Board of Directors and senior staff are responsible for implementing this policy throughout the Company and must ensure that health and safety considerations are always given priority in planning and in day-to-day activities.
Helical Bar recognises its legal responsibility for health and safety.
The Managing Director has overall responsibility for policy formulation, development and implementation.
The Company shall liaise and co-operate with the appropriate authorities and will obtain expert advice where necessary to determine the risks to health and safety in its activities.
Facilities will be provided for employer employee consultation on health and safety matters.
All employees are expected to co-operate with the Company to achieve the objectives of this policy and must ensure that their own work, so far as is reasonably practicable, is carried out without risk to themselves or others.
The Company is committed to providing information and necessary ongoing training to employees in respect of risks to health and safety, which may arise out of their activities or at their workplace.
This policy statement will be displayed prominently at all Company offices and the organisation and arrangements for implementing this policy will be available at all Company offices for reference.
The policy will be reviewed and updated as necessary and any revisions will be communicated to those affected by the changes.
Community involvement Helical Bar plc has for many years joined in efforts to raise money for charitable causes.
In 2007, the Company has organised an entry under the Helical banner into the London to Brighton Bike Ride hoping to repeat its success of 2005 when over 91,000 was raised for the British Heart Foundation.
The Companys Managing Director, Mr Michael Slade, is a Trustee of the Land Aid Charitable Trust, a charity established in 1985 to focus the fundraising efforts of the property industry.
Land Aids mission is to support the homeless and vulnerable by raising funds to help provide accommodation, assist in refurbishment projects and give financial assistance where needed.
In 2005 the charity was relaunched and organises several fundraising events each year.
The Company also makes charitable donations in its own right and in the year under review the donations amounted to 45,485 2006: 40,220.
Ethical concerns The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics which sets out its approach to its business principles and provides details of good business practices promoted by the Company.
It includes a clear policy statement that the Company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in its business dealings.
The Company has also adopted an Equal Opportunities Policy which sets out its determination to treat all employees in accordance with that policy.
22 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance
