Environmental Policy and Objectives Helical remains committed to managing adverse environmental impacts arising from its property management and development activities.
Our strategic commitment to the environment is outlined in the Companys environmental policy which can be found on the environment pages of www.
The environment policy is supported by 11 overarching environmental objectives, outlining our commitment across a range of environmental issues as diverse as resource use, waste management and environmental design.
As a minimum, we aim to comply with all relevant local, national and international legislation and regulation.
Where practicable, we seek to go further and implement good environmental practice, because, amongst other things, we believe that it minimises risk, future proofs our business, adds value beyond the traditional financial measures of property markets and contributes to our enhanced reputation.
We set targets annually as part of an ongoing commitment to continuous improvement.
These targets cover three main areas of our activity, namely, design and construction, property management and our own office occupation.
Progress against these targets is tracked quarterly and a detailed review of progress against the targets is undertaken by our third party advisors each year summarising how we performed against our stated commitments.
Listed below are some of the achievements of the past year: Building design and construction We developed an environmental guidance checklist for our smaller contractors.
We hope to use this to encourage our contractors to consider environmental issues in assignments undertaken on behalf of Helical.
We identified a series of key performance indicators for measuring waste at our Clareville House re-development in London.
We hope that this may be useful in future given the imminent legal requirement for Site Waste Management Plans.
Property management We developed an information pack for new tenants, including information on our corporate environmental policies and environmental matters relating to individual buildings.
Work has continued with several tenants in multi-let offices to identify energy saving measures.
We have carried out a cost comparison exercise at several multi-let offices, comparing the cost savings associated with recycling and traditional waste disposal methods.
Own occupation Our website has been updated to include further details on our approach to environmental management as well as an overview of progress against last years environment targets.
Future commitments A full list of targets for 2007 08 can be found on the Company website at www.
co. uk 23 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance
