Corporate Responsibility Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility The members of Mapeleys CR committee At Mapeley, we CR are also a prime focus for our clients.
have responsibility for the following We work in close partnership with each stakeholders: recognise our client to support their sustainability objectives Investors and to inuence our supply partners to Head of Investor Relations responsibility to ensure environmental and socio-economic Employees manage the impact factors are taken into account in day to Head of Human Resources day operations.
To achieve this goal we Clients of our activities in follow the core principles in our corporate Head of Customer Services responsibility policy, focusing on four key Supply chain a socially responsible areas: workplace, environment, community Head of Procurement and marketplace.
Environment manner, balancing Environment and Utilities Manager Mapeleys CR committee comprises senior Community the needs of our representatives from relevant areas of Head of Business Assurance, the business and is chaired by the Chief Marketing Manager stakeholders with those Operating officer of Mapeley.
The committee of the communities seeks to provide a framework for the The General Counsel, the Heads of Health range of CR initiatives undertaken in all and Safety Business Assurance and the in which we work.
Group Financial Reporting Manager have additional responsibility on the CR The objectives of the CR Committee are to: Committee for areas of health and safety, Manage and reduce our environmental risk management and internal audit, impacts to support a sustainable future all of which Mapeley view as key and Provide our staff with a safe and healthy complementary to sound CR practice.
environment within which to work and build and maintain a positive culture Mapeley has a number of established where employee welfare is respected accredited management systems, which Understand the impact our operation are externally assessed, including: has on the local community and Quality ISO9001 identify ways of providing support to Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 communities impacted Environmental Management ISO14001 Ensure our business is conducted and goods and services are procured in a fair and ethical way Measure our CR performance and benchmark against external benchmarks Comply with existing and new legislation Committed to CSR where relevant Mapeleys commitment Strive to meet good practice in nonto CSR first received regulated areas, integrating biodiversity external recognition by FTSE4Good in 2006. considerations into our activities, working in partnership with clients, tenants and suppliers Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 26 Overview of 2007: We have established family friendly Workplace: policies such as maternity and flexible 2007 has been a successful year for work policy to enable employees to managing Health and Safety at Mapeley.
properly balance work and home life.
We have achieved and exceeded our We offer enhanced maternity provisions objectives and the OHSAS18001 registration with a view to supporting employees was successfully retained.
Our achievements were acknowledged Mapeleys Head of Human Resources is an by receipt of the ROSPA Gold Award for active member of both the Executive a third successive year.
In this area our Committee and the Management Committee.
aim has been to embed the principles and practices of good Health and Safety Environment: management into our culture and to We have continued to take steps to achieve a more co-ordinated approach to understand and manage our environmental promote continuous improvement.
The impacts over the past 12 months.
The table areas of greatest risk in Health and Safety below shows highlights of some of the have received the most significant focus baseline data we have collected in 2007 and for development.
We have continued the targets we have set ourselves for 2008. to develop and deliver our own training packages based on the varied risks that We recognise the importance of supporting our clients and staff face in the day to and partnering with our clients to develop day delivery of their responsibilities.
In 2007 we completed a number of sustainable The programme of site visits by our projects in partnership with our clients, Head of Health and Safety and other highlights of which included: managers within the service management team continues to internally monitor DPI Portfolio we developed and delivered our effectiveness against legislative and a sustainable development benchmarking company requirements.
tool which has been trialled at four sites.
Nautical Nurses Community Gardening As a result one of those sites has been Mapeley supports chosen Project Mapeleys Chief Operating officer has awarded a Bronze Envibe Award by Croydon charities in geographical St Mungos helps over areas in which we operate 10,000 homeless and overall responsibility for Health and Safety.
Council in recognition of their compliance and impact.
Great Ormond vulnerable people to make We ensure we keep up-to-date with with waste management legislation.
Street Hospital is a charity life changes each year legislation and best practice, to encourage supported by Mapeley on Putting Down Roots PDR account of it being local gardening project works continuous improvement by focusing HMRC Portfolio through the appointment to our London ofce in more than 30 public on the areas of highest risk and to fostering and management of a contractor to manage Mapeley staff helped spaces and St Mungos a positive safety culture.
the billing and consumption of electricity and sponsor two Great Ormond projects across London Street Hospital nurses, Mapeley volunteers spent gas, a saving of approximately 2.4 million known as the Nautical a day each developing We recognise that it is essential to provide over three years has been achieved.
Nurses, to row non stop a landscaped garden at across the Atlantic the St Mungos shelter in equal opportunities to all employees The Nautical Nurses Clapham and Kilburn without discrimination.
Mapeleys equal Together with our service partners we have targeted raising 250,000 The estates house many opportunity policy sets out the organisation's produced a Carbon Footprint that applies for metabolic research permanent residents who Despite having never were present on the day position on equal opportunity in all aspects to every building in the HMRC Portfolio.
rowed before the nurses interacting and assisting of employment, including recruitment and went from La Gomera in with our staff and the promotion, and provides guidance and the Canary Islands to gardening Antigua in the West Indies: encouragement to employees at all levels the equivalent of crossing to act fairly and prevent discrimination the English Channel 128 times, completing the task on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, in 78 days 2,936 miles disability as dened by the Disability There are over 1,300 Discrimination Act 1995. serious metabolic conditions, some of them life-threatening, affecting thousands of children in the UK.
This challenge will provide vital funding for two research projects which will offer these children a lifeline Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 27 Corporate Responsibility continued We take all reasonable steps to be legally Community: compliant and to prevent pollution and harm In 2007, Mapeley partnered with a number to the environment.
We strive to meet good of charities, focusing on supporting the practice in non-regulated areas, integrating geographical areas in which the business biodiversity considerations into our activities, operates and has the greatest impact on.
working in partnership with clients, We undertook a range of activities that agents, contractors and other suppliers.
benefited local communities including: painting an underprivileged school During 2007 Mapeley committed to a carbon in London management strategy to support our overall improving the home of an underprivileged carbon reduction target.
A key Mapeley family in London objective is to reduce our Carbon emissions Putting Down Roots Programme which by 60% by 2050 benchmarked on baseline involves work in Londons open spaces, data collected in 2007.
Mapeley selected aiming to engage homeless people and a baseline data set which includes key to provide them with skills which they Painting a school information such as energy use and business can use for employment and or to take Kids Company provides miles travelled train, car, taxi and aeroplane control of their lives practical and emotional support to lone children to develop a carbon footprint.
Great Ormond Street Hospital assisting who experience significant with the Christmas party for over 1,000 psychosocial difficulties Mapeleys carbon management strategy children and because their parent is unable to function as a consists of a number of elements: Falconhurst School, Milton Keynes caring adult Calculation and benchmarking Mapeleys gardening project to create an area The lack of a functioning adult has an adverse indirect and direct carbon emissions the pupils could use for planting and impact on the childs Identifying Mapeleys carbon footprint wildlife classes.
ability to access education, within the supply chain health, housing and meaningful employment Analysis of carbon footprint data We have developed long-term relationships Mapeley volunteers spent Reduction of carbon emissions within with Kids Company, St Mungos and a day painting 3 murals, the workplace, with supply chain partners, Great Ormond Street Hospital, all of which fencing and an outdoor shed at Riverly Primary tenants and landlords within our are located in London, the area most School property portfolios impacted by the operation of our principal An artist from Kids Company drew the mural Setting a carbon reduction target of 2.5% ofce in the UK.
We will continue to and Mapeley volunteers year on year.
We also were responsible for remain focused on building relationships the painting As many of these children Mapeleys carbon footprint is currently with local charities in Milton Keynes, site only travel from their being veried by C-Level, an external of our second ofce.
home to school every day, validator.
We intend to balance our 2007 it is important that school brightens their day and carbon emissions through climate-friendly We also continued to work with Business provides visual stimuli independently veried projects: the in the Community.
selected project is Fuel Wood Saving with Improved Cook-Stoves in Cambodia.
Marketplace: We recognise the importance of reducing Mapeley has the ability to inuence a large our carbon emissions.
We believe that number of organisations and individuals carbon balancing should be treated as through the operation of its estate, a last resort and will strive to reduce the particularly with regard to its relationships amount of carbon produced.
with suppliers and contractors in the provision of facilities management, life cycle and project services.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 28 Key Performance Indicator Baseline Our procurement policy addresses sustainable procurement.
We launched Performance Indicator 2007 Result 2008 Target our Green Procurement Policy in May 2 2 2 Energy Used Kwh m 98.4 Kwh m 96.00 Kwh m 2007 which aims to provide a procurement framework that will advance the sustainable Carbon Dioxide energy used and use of resources.
Mapeley ensures that its business mileage 561 tonnes 547 tonnes 2 supply chain adheres to its sustainability Carbon Dioxide kg m produced 0.11 0.11 requirements by inuencing their business Reams of paper used per person 19.2 Reams person 18.7 Reams person operations.
Contractors terms and conditions Volume of paper recycled per person 29.4 Reams person 30.1 Reams person reect Mapeleys sustainability requirements Disabling injury rate 0 0 and incorporate a requirement for the RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Disease provision of management information to and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 0 0 enable these to be monitored, for example, Work related sickness rate 0 0 green energy, waste recycling and catering.
Number of female employees 48% 50% We encourage innovation from our Health and safety and supply chain to ensure opportunities for environmental training 308.5 hours 360 hours sustainable procurement are captured.
employee spent on training 691 754 We procure goods and services from suppliers that operate sound environmental policies and whose national and international practices are ethically sound.
It is our goal to create long-term shareholder value.
We are focused on providing our investors with transparency into our operational performance.
We encourage an open and active dialogue with all investors and are keen to develop long-term relationships of trust built on a sound understanding of Mapeley, its strategy, objectives and performance.
We aim to communicate in a clear, open and timely way with investors and all our stakeholders.
During 2007 we continued our programme of explaining the Companys business and financial performance and taking feedback from investors.
The CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations attended 81 investor presentations throughout the year.
Performance In 2006 we identied the following key performance indicators which we would use to measure our CR performance.
The 2007 data below provides a baseline in which to measure ourselves going forward.
The table on the left also displays the targets for these KPIs for 2008.
