Audit Committee report The Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee is established under terms of reference approved by the Board.
These are kept under review and were most recently updated in June 2007.
Membership The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors.
Clive Richards chaired the Committee throughout the year.
Christopher Sheridan served on the Committee throughout the year.
As an independent non-executive Director Oliver Whitehead served on the Audit Committee from 19 July 2006, the date he joined the Board, until his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 21 November 2006.
Clive Richards is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Christopher Sheridan is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Member of the Securities Institute.
Both members are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
John McNeil was appointed to the Committee on 16 July 2007, the date he joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director.
John Matthews is expected to join the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 17 September 2007 and will be appointed to the Committee.
Meetings The Committee met three times in the year ended 30 June 2007.
When appropriate, the Finance Director, Governance other Directors and the Auditors have been invited by the Committee to attend its meetings.
The Committee is able to consider items of business without other parties being present.
Main activities of the Committee The Committee has: 47 undertaken detailed reviews of published annual and interim financial information including consideration Minerva plc of the appropriateness of accounting policies and material assumptions and estimates adopted Annual report and by management: accounts 2007 held a meeting with the auditors, in advance of the annual audit, to consider and discuss the nature and scope of the audit: undertaken the annual review of the need for an internal audit function and confirmed that was not necessary given the size and complexity of the Company: monitored the independence of the Auditors: developed and approved a formal policy for the Auditors to supply non-audit services: reviewed the Companys report on internal control and risk management systems with regard to financial controls: and reviewed and reaffirmed the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
Auditors The Committee reviews the level of fees and type of non-audit work carried out by the Auditors.
It was considered in the best interests of the Company to retain  LLP for this non-audit work due to their relevant expertise and knowledge of the Company.
In addition, the Committee further safeguards the Auditors objectivity by reviewing the measures they take to maintain their independence and manage any conflicts of interest.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the Auditors should be reappointed.
For and on behalf of the Board Clive Richards Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 September 2007 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2007.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activities of the Group are that of property investment, development and management.
A review of the business of the Group is provided in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9 and the business review on pages 12 to 27.
The business review details the Groups strategy and includes an operational update, including the progress of the Groups projects: a financial review, including hedging and risk management: as well as other information regarding the Groups activities, position at the year end and future prospects.
Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the results of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2007 and are shown on page 54.
The dividend policy for the Group was outlined to shareholders last year and is designed to repatriate special dividends to shareholders when profits are delivered through our development activities.
As expected, no dividend is declared in respect of the year ended 30 June 2007 2006: nil.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year ended 30 June 2007 are as follows: Oliver Whitehead appointed to the Board on 19 July 2006 Salmaan Hasan Ivan Ezekiel Tim Garnham 48 Clive Richards Christopher Sheridan Minerva plc Andrew Rosenfeld resigned 21 November 2006 Annual report and Christopher Mackenzie resigned 26 October 2006 accounts 2007 Since the year ended 30 June 2007, John McNeil has been appointed to the Board on 16 July 2007 by the Directors.
He will retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and being eligible will offer himself for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Salmaan Hasan will retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan, who will have served as non-executive Directors of the Company for 11 years, are subject to re-election at the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Notwithstanding that Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have served as non-executive Directors since October 1996, the Directors consider that each of them remains independent and consider their performance to be effective, demonstrating commitment to the role of a non-executive Director of the Company.
To ensure continuity, both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have agreed to remain on the Board until the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
John Matthews is expected to join the Board on 17 September 2007 and will offer himself for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
John Matthews aged 62 is a Chartered Accountant.
He worked in the corporate finance department of NM Rothschild before joining County NatWest which he was with for 20 years, latterly as Managing Director.
In 1988 he became Deputy Chief Executive of Beazer plc leaving prior to its acquisition in 1991.
He was then with Indosuez Capital Ltd until 1994 when he left to concentrate on a portfolio of non-executive appointments including at Crest Nicholson plc where he was non-executive director from 1992, becoming Chairman from 1996 until the companys acquisition in April 2007.
He was also a director of Center Parcs UK Group plc from 2003 until it was sold in 2006.
He is currently Chairman of Regus Group plc, and a non-executive director of Rotork plc, SDL plc and Diploma plc.
Biographical details of the Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the shares of the Company and in options over shares of the Company as at 30 June 2007 are as set out in the Remuneration report.
There has been no change in the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June 2007 and the date of this report.
