QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 54 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR During the year, the Committee reviewed its procedures to The Groups external auditor was first appointed in April 1992. ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In July 1996, the audit was transferred to a corporate body, The auditor has its own internal procedures in place to ensure KPMG Audit Plc the external auditor.
that none of the audit team has a personal or financial interest in the Company which might impair their judgement or objectivity.
The Committee makes recommendations on the appointment Furthermore, it is the auditors policy that the lead audit director of, and approves the remuneration of, the external auditor, with be rotated at least every five years, in line with which the audit particular regard to the setting of appropriate parameters director in charge of the audit team was replaced in April 2003. of the audit.
It also ensures the external auditors overall work plan is consistent with the terms of engagement and reviews The Groups policy regarding provision of non-audit services the audit representation letters prior to signature by management.
by the auditor includes a requirement that any commitment to fees of 20,000 or more to the auditor for non-audit services The Committee meets the external auditor periodically to ensure must be given prior permission from either the Committee a direct line of communication, to review its independence or the Board.
The total value of the auditors fees was as and to agree the audit plan.
follows: 304,000 for audit fees and 80,000 for non-audit The Committee reviews significant financial reporting issues fees.
A breakdown of these can be found in note 4i on page 86. and judgements made in connection with the preparation of Deloitte & Touche LLP provided taxation advice from 1 April 2004. preliminary, interim and other price sensitive public reports.
The Chairman and the Committee discuss any major accounting or other audit issues that arise with the external auditor.
DAVID PANGBOURNE At the end of the audit cycle, the external auditors report is CHAIRMAN OF AUDIT COMMITTEE reviewed by the Committee, which reports the auditors findings 13 June 2007 and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the audit process itself, including: whether the auditor has met the management plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in handling key accounting audit judgements and systems of internal control: obtaining feedback from key personnel: and the content of the management letter.
indd 10 25 07 2007 11:41:06 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Board is offered training and information in a form and The Board collectively and individually subscribes to the principles of a quality it believes is appropriate to enable it to discharge and provisions in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance its duties.
Directors receive training in specic areas relevant and associated guidance.
Other than for one area noted below, to their speciality and relevant to the Board as a whole.
the Company confirms that it is in compliance with the Code New Directors are offered an induction programme for the year under review and indeed, in a number of areas, including tailor-made elements where appropriate.
goes beyond the high level expected of it.
For example, the The Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees put is a Chartered Secretary.
The Company Secretary keeps themselves forward for re-election by shareholders at each the Directors informed of corporate governance issues AGM and the Audit Committee Report is also voted upon.
and changes in the law and best practice guidance, ensuring The one area where the Company has not complied with the Board procedures are complied with, where required, and has Combined Code is that bonus arrangements, which comprise access to external professional advice at the Groups expense.
cash and, under exceptional circumstances, share awards, have no upper limit in the aggregate, although an upper limit is in During the year, a formal Board performance evaluation exercise place in respect of the cash element of the plan.
The Board was carried out by means of questionnaires to which all Directors believes this is appropriate since, for the share element of responded.
Their results were considered by the Board and by the bonus award to be triggered, exceptional performance must the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
be delivered and it is important to incentivise such performance.
A small number of minor points were identied and actioned.
The Chairmans performance was considered at a meeting THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been approved which is reviewed on an annual basis.
It includes those matters The Non-Executive Directors bring independent views to that are most significant to the Group, based on the nature the Board.
They have diverse experience having expertise and size of the transaction, both in terms of financial impact in chartered surveying, the civil service, accountancy, law and risk.
and economics to add to the Boards effectiveness, particularly in the areas of corporate strategy, governance and risk.
As part of its collective responsibility for the management Non-Executive Directors take an active part in debate and, of the Group, the Board must ensure that adequate resources not being afraid to challenge proposals, ensure the robustness are in place to achieve its strategic aims and that its obligations of Board decisions.
Lady Judge is the deputy chairman of the to shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
In the Financial Reporting Council.
She is a lawyer and expert in management of Group assets, the Board is also conscious corporate governance and continues to be the nominated both of environmental issues and community relations.
As part Senior Independent Director.
Lady Judges experience and of the planning process for the Wembley and Greenwich urban qualications make her the most appropriate Non-Executive regeneration projects, the Group has also engaged in extensive Director for this role and she is available to meet shareholders consultation with central and local government and with the on request and at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors contracts are for an initial period The Directors take decisions objectively and in the best of three years, which may, in exceptional circumstances, interests of the Group, being collectively and individually be extended for further periods, subject to re-election by the responsible for its success.
They are accountable to each members in general meeting.
Executive Directors have rolling and every shareholder and take into consideration the need service contracts which provide for a notice period of six months.
to foster the Groups business relationships with other None of the service agreements contain any liquidated damages stakeholders in discharging that obligation.
or payment in lieu of damages on change of control provisions.
As at the year end, the Board comprised the Chairman plus four All Directors contracts are available for inspection at the Executive and five Non-Executive Directors, all of the latter being registered ofce and at the AGM.
Since the year end, John Plender In accordance with the Companys Articles, each Director must has been appointed Chairman and Nigel Ellis has become stand for re-election at least every three years.
a Non-Executive Director, albeit not an independent one.
The Board has a good balance between Executive and The Terms of Reference of the Audit and Remuneration Non-Executive Directors, with the diversity of relevant Committees require the Chairman of each Committee skills required to further the interests of shareholders.
to offer himself herself for re-election annually.
Brief biographies of each Board member can be found This year Joan MacNaughton and Rebecca Worthington on pages 42 and 43.
It is the Groups policy that Executive are standing for re-election as Directors.
Tonianne Dwyer Directors may not hold more than one external directorship.
is standing for election by shareholders at the first AGM Formal Board meetings are held at least bi-monthly and during following her appointment.
David Pangbourne is also the year to 31 March 2007, there were six formal meetings which standing for re-election in his capacity as Chairman of were attended by all Directors except for one meeting at which the Audit Committee and Martin Meech for re-election Tom Cross Brown and Martin Meech gave their apologies for as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
During the period, there were 30 other ad hoc Board The Board recommends to shareholders that those Directors meetings, quorate, but not necessarily of the full Board, to offering themselves for election at its forthcoming AGM be facilitate day to day business operations.
The Non-Executive re-elected because of the significant value they create and Directors also met both with and without the Chairman present.
the wide ranging skills and experience which they bring to bear in the workings of the Board.
indd 11 25 07 2007 11:41:07 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD COMMITTEES promoting sustainability.
It also encourages staff participation The Companys policy is that all Non-Executive Directors are in the raising of funds for charity, by matching the fundraising members of all the committees of the Board except the Risk efforts of individual employees who participate in charitable Committee.
Whilst the Directors are aware that this may not events up to a maximum of 500 per employee.
The Committee be regarded as best practice by some, they believe it to be is currently chaired by Joan MacNaughton.
It comprises the in the interests of the Company to have maximum diversity Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
of skills on its committees.
The Risk Committee comprises David Pangbourne, David Pangbourne is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Plender, Martin Meech and Adrian Wyatt and is The Audit Committee meets formally at least three times each chaired by Rebecca Worthington.
The Deputy Chief Executive year.
It also meets separately with both the external and internal and the other Non-Executive Directors attend meetings auditors and the Companys property valuers.
During the year by invitation.
Matters within its wide ranging remit include ended 31 March 2007, the Committee met on three occasions financial and treasury issues, valuation, reputation, legal, with full attendance.
Its Terms of Reference include consideration corporate governance, management, economic and of the appointment and terms of engagement of the external operational risks.
and internal auditors together with a review of their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the co-ordination of internal and LEASE CODE external auditors, reviewing auditors reports, annual and interim The Company is in support of the initiatives set out in The Code reports, asset valuations, internal control policy and procedures of Practice for Commercial Leases in England and Wales, which and consistency.
The Code contains a range of recommendations which are deemed to represent best The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Martin Meech.
practice between principals and their representatives in The Committee meets at least three times each year.
During landlord and tenant matters.
the year ended 31 March 2007, the Committee met five times with full attendance at each meeting.
Its Terms of Reference SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS include consideration of all aspects of the Executive Directors The Finance Director, with the assistance of her fellow Executive performance, employment, remuneration and incentives.
Directors, is primarily responsible for investor relations and It also sets the remuneration and incentives policy of the regularly makes contact with institutional and other shareholders Group as a whole and approves the remuneration of senior in an effort to maintain an open and effective dialogue.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 47 to 52.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet shareholders and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
to review strategy and corporate governance, or to discuss matters The Committee meets formally at least once a year and of concern.
Shareholders views are communicated to the Board otherwise when required.
During the year, it met twice as a whole and summaries of shareholder meetings given with full attendance.
Formal feedback from shareholders is also It was chaired by Nigel Ellis who did not chair the meeting given to the Directors by the Companys brokers, JPMorgan during discussions regarding his successor as Chairman Cazenove Limited.
and comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and the The Companys AGM provides a further opportunity for investors Chief Executive.
Whilst some guidance views Adrian Wyatts to question the Directors, both formally and informally.
They also membership of this Committee as not in accordance with best have a chance to meet any new Directors.
The number of proxy practice, the Directors believe it to be in the best interests votes lodged for each motion is announced at the meeting.
The Committees Terms of Reference include the review of the structure and composition of the Board, The Company maintains a website at www.
com the identication of suitable candidates to ll vacancies which provides information relating to the property portfolio, policy as and when they arise, making recommendations for statements, finance, contacts, press releases and on-screen the re-election of Directors and forming succession plans.
There is also a section containing the Companys The Terms of Reference for the Nominations Committee statutory documents.
Interested parties may register to receive are available on request from the Company Secretary or notication of press releases and may contact the Company on the Companys website, www.
The Donations Committee is responsible for evaluating charitable GOING CONCERN requests submitted to the Company and makes decisions within The following statement is made as required by provision C. 1.2 the scope of pre-set criteria which are reviewed periodically.
of the Code: The Committee meets as necessary and in between meetings communicates on an informal basis.
The Committee works within After making enquiries, including reviewing the Groups budgets a policy which requires it to allocate at least 50% of the donations and available finance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation budget to organisations working in the property and construction that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational industries, the local communities in which the Group operates existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue and those involved in accessibility programmes and to causes to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
indd 12 25 07 2007 11:41:07 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 57 INTERNAL CONTROLS The other key elements of the Groups system of internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system are as follows: of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee, However, such a system is designed to manage, rather than whose overall responsibilities are set out in this Report eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with a management structure designed to enable effective the Code, the Board has in place an ongoing system of decision making with clearly dened responsibilities and identication, evaluation and management of significant risks.
An important part of this structure is The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls a weekly meeting of the Executive Directors to review the was reviewed during the period, both by the Audit Committee ongoing business and decide on proposed acquisitions and by the Board.
This review included financial, operational, divestments and capital expenditure: compliance and risk management.
During the year and up agreed operational procedures, both internal and to the date of this report, the Board was not aware of any in dealings with external bodies, which assist in material risks or incidents not previously assessed.
the maintenance of uniformly high standards: Risk identication: managers are responsible for ongoing the measurement of financial performance at least once identication and evaluation of key risks applicable to their every three months against budgets and long term areas and for taking appropriate action.
Risks may be financial plans: associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information consideration by the Risk Committee of issues which may systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory affect the Group on a wider basis: and requirements.
The risks identied and the actions taken to investigation by the internal auditor of areas of specic risk.
minimise or eliminate them are assessed on a regular basis by the internal auditors who report to the Audit Committee.
The Group has entered into a number of joint ventures, the most significant findings are presented to the Board and can result material being the Quercus Healthcare Property Partnership in renements to internal procedures.
and Meridian Delta Limited, which are not controlled by the Company.
These have therefore not been included as part of Control environment: the Group is committed to the highest the Group for the purposes of the internal control assessment.
standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Board considers The Board is committed to following corporate governance best it has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, practice wherever possible and has undertaken to review its executing, controlling and monitoring business operations position annually.
It has considered its system of internal in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
control and its effectiveness for the financial year and up to the date of this report and, in its opinion, the process accords Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are documented.
Information and communication: periodic strategic reviews By order of the Board are carried out which include the consideration of long term projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Annual budgets and strategic plans are prepared.
Periodic forecasts support the active monitoring of the Groups SUE DIXON performance against plan.
Both results and forecasts are COMPANY SECRETARY consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
