Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Portland Basin, Ashton-under-Lyne, Greater Manchester 24% increase in homes developed to EcoHome very good standards.
17 Corporate Responsibility Policy Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Bellway believes that its reputation is critical to the creation of longManage our environmental footprint and aim to enhance our term value for its shareholders.
We recognise that financial success is performance in areas where we operate, particularly in relation to reinforced by our behaviour beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and energy and waste.
enhancing our reputation and social licence to operate is a significant Consider and respond to the social and environmental effects of the element of sustained financial success.
homes and communities that we develop.
Corporate responsibility is action taken by the Group which positively Improve internal and external awareness of our corporate affects our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, the responsibility programmes and initiatives.
communities where we work and the environment that we operate in, Report regularly to the Board and external stakeholders on and goes beyond our legal or regulatory obligations.
This policy sets performance using sustainability indicators.
out how we will operate and drives the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
Through Bellways commitment to corporate The following structure has been put in place to achieve these responsibility we will: commitments: Engage and respond to stakeholders, including shareholders, The Chief Executive is responsible for this policy and advising the employees, customers, governments and communities that we Board on all corporate responsibility matters.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Sustainability Management Comply with all relevant legislation as a minimum standard.
Working Group including senior members from across Bellway who are responsible for the development and review of this policy.
Work towards recognised good practice in sustainability and corporate responsibility.
The financial directors of each regional division are responsible for implementation and reporting on performance.
Treat all employees fairly and invest in training for the long-term to bring out the best in our people.
Bellway is committed to reporting annually on its approach to corporate responsibility and has established key performance indicators Provide a healthy and safe environment in which to work through an to enable others to judge our performance.
This policy does not effective health & safety management system.
replace existing policies on environment, health & safety, and wood Demonstrate continual improvement in our approach to sustainable procurement, but has been developed to work with them.
All policies developments in both design and practice.
are available on the Bellway website www.
co. uk and are Recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are reviewed annually.
Invest in the communities we develop in a way that contributes to local community needs.
