Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The Maltings, Lichfield, Staffordshire The Bellway Group is one of the largest house builders in the UK.
The house building process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that at the conclusion of a development, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
25 Environmental Policy Statement Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to and In addition to our key commitments, the Group has identified a enhance the environment, this statement sets out our policies for number of specific priority areas which we will endeavour to achieve: managing the environmental aspects across our business.
Key Consideration of environmental aspects in the selection and objectives are to: procurement of land for development, including implications for Minimise any deleterious effects on the environment and where biodiversity and sustainable development.
possible to seek environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas Meeting and, where possible, exceed government targets for the where there is most room for improvement.
Aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed all relevant Influencing the design of sites, housing, and fittings to minimise effects environmental legislation and regulations.
on both the natural and built environment.
Providing environmental benefits and minimising nuisance arising from Set specific environmental objectives and targets and periodically construction activities and preventing pollution on development sites.
Consideration of environmental issues within our corporate functions Ensure that Bellway's environmental aims and their importance are and everyday business decision-making processes.
communicated throughout the Group, including appropriate subThe above statement will be balanced against economic contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of the policy is sent to considerations.
Consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
Recognise and respond to the challenges and opportunities that are presented by climate change.
203 apprentices employed and 3,000 training days delivered.
