36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Consequently, in all of our business we adhere to the following principles: INTRODUCTION As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, we l We seek to make a positive contribution to society as a whole, and recognise the signi cant impact that our activities speci cally the communities in which we operate.
have on the environment and the communities l We treat all partners, suppliers and employees fairly, without regard to in which we work.
We recognise that managing race, colour, creed, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability.
these activities responsibly brings long-term bene ts to our shareholders as well as our other l We require our suppliers to operate to similar high standards as ourselves.
l Compliance with laws and regulations is required as an absolute minimum One of the companys key strengths is its ability standard.
and willingness to undertake dif cult and long l Reputable business practices must be applied.
term projects, focusing on: l Con icts of interest must be declared and appropriate arrangements l Town centre regeneration the refurbishment made to ensure that those with a material interest are not involved in the and revitalisation of tired town centres: decision making process.
l Partnering industry enabling the reuse of l Improper payments or inducements of any kind are prohibited.
redundant former employment complexes: l Reporting of business performance is undertaken in such a way that l Brown eld land renewal the remediation of stakeholders are fully and properly informed concerning the businesss contaminated brown eld land: and true performance, risks and opportunities in a timely manner.
l Heritage restoration the restoration of heritage assets of both local and national importance.
SUSTAINABILITY We are committed to improving the built environment, whilst undertaking At the very heart of all of our business is the projects that seek to transform areas of dereliction and decay into principle of sustainability the need to conserve sustainable communities.
scarce resources and avoid compromising the inheritance of future generations.
Each one of our projects poses its own environmental challenges.
In tackling these challenges, we seek to: The other principle underlying our business is to conduct it to the highest ethical standards, l Identify the potential impact of our developments on the environment: treating others as we would wish to be treated l Design development solutions which meet the requirements of the ourselves.
planning and environmental regulators: Our business depends critically on the behaviour l Implement the development so it protects and where practicable enhances of our employees and the professionals and the environment, repairing the damage done by previous generations: and contractors who help deliver our projects.
We seek to treat them with respect and to encourage l Particularly recycle materials, conserve energy, reduce consumption of them in the delivery of our projects to give equal raw materials and minimise waste production.
respect to all our stakeholders.
We apply our approach to sustainable development at all stages of our work: The following pages set out our CSR principles in the way we use land and buildings: in site and building design: and in our and illustrate the progress we have made in construction methods.
The following section provides more detail about our the year.
approach, with case studies drawn from our regeneration projects over the last year.
PRINCIPLES & ETHICS We strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility, by acting with integrity in our dealings with our business partners, stakeholders and with each other.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR STRETTON A VIEW OF THE FINAL PHASE OF STRETTON BUSINESS PARK ACROSS THE COVENTRY CANAL s 1.
SUSTAINABLE LOCATION CASE STUDIES l Reusing land The recycling and returning of previously developed land to bene cial Reusing land Longbridge, Birmingham We have demolished use safeguards the countryside and helps to over 2 million sq ft of redundant buildings from the former MG Rover preserve natural habitats.
It helps tackle the car plant, and are currently remediating 159 acres of contaminated blight of dereliction in communities by bringing brown eld land for a mixed use development that will provide 10,000 poor quality sites back into use, and enables jobs, 1,500 homes and a new district centre.
the reuse of existing infrastructure and utilities.
Reusing buildings Wembley Central We are refurbishing a Moreover, the decontamination and remediation redundant 40,000 sq ft of ce building by converting two oors of polluted land will improve the environment.
to residential and adding an additional residential oor, whilst As a specialist in regeneration, we already have converting the remaining space to a business centre.
At the same extensive experience in the reuse of previously time the derelict multi-storey car park is being remodelled to meet developed sites.
In 2007 94% 2006: 91% of our Parkmark standard so as to play an integral part in the 100m mixed building activity was on brown eld land.
l Reusing buildings The refurbishment and reuse of a building is generally a better option 2.
SITE DESIGN than its demolition and replacement with a new l Providing transport choices Accessibility is a key consideration in building from an environmental point of view, all our new developments.
For a variety of reasons, both social and and we seek to apply this principle whenever it planning, people tend not to live in close proximity to their place of is practicable to do so.
The reuse of buildings work.
This has led to a dramatic increase in travel demand, leading to reduces the environmental costs involved in the increased CO emissions, congestion, and long commuting times and it demolition and construction processes, and 2 also creates accessibility problems for people without access to a car.
We enables reuse of existing utility infrastructure.
believe that sustainable communities must seek to reconnect housing, However, this has to be set against the workplace, and amenities, via provision of public and sustainable practicability of reusing an old building.
transport linkages and integrated land-use planning.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY l Community engagement Sustainable l Managing ood risk Sustainable communities are protected as far communities are places where people want as possible from ooding, have safe access and escape should ooding to live and work, now and for generations to nevertheless occur, and do not increase the ood risk of areas elsewhere.
They meet the diverse needs of existing We seek to incorporate sustainable urban drainage systems SUDS in and future residents, are sensitive to their all of our developments, by the appropriate use of permeable surfaces, environment, and contribute to a high quality of rainwater harvesting systems, ponds and seasonal wetlands, swales and life.
They are safe and inclusive, well planned, soakaways, and by extensive tree planting.
built and run and offer equality of opportunity and good service for all.
In all our projects, CASE STUDIES we consider it essential to engage with local Providing transport choices Edmonton Green, En eld A new 26 communities to establish what they want to see stand bus station, built in partnership with Transport for London, developed, and how it should be managed.
forms the centrepiece of our major mixed use regeneration scheme.
l Enhancing the environment We ensure Community engagement Dursley We engaged in extensive in our developments that protected species consultation with the local community in the process of obtaining and habitats are safeguarded or new habitats planning for this 92 acre mixed use development, and are establishing a provided, with site design allowing for the community interest company to manage the community infrastructure, movement of protected wildlife for example including a biomass heating system which lies at the heart of the scheme, and have recruited a full-time community liaison of cer.
by the provision of bat corridors without bright lights, badger tunnels under roads.
Enhancing the environment The St. Modwen Environmental We also seek to enhance the wildlife value of Trust during 2006 we established the Trust with an annual budget sites by the retention or introduction of native of 300,000, to support projects that seek to improve the local environment in areas in which the company is active.
species appropriate to the site and prevailing conditions, the creation of new wildlife habitats Managing ood risk Quedgeley West Business Park We have used and corridors, and by limiting the area of hard four types of SUDS techniques at this former MOD depot site.
are: a dry pond with throttled out ow: porous paving: Wavin Aqua cellular storage: and swales.
Together, these signi cantly reduce peak run-off rates, preventing ooding both on site and downstream.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s s CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 TRENTHAM LAKES THE PETS AT HOME EXTENSION SEEN ACROSS THE BALANCING POND, WHICH HAS BECOME A HAVEN OF WILDLIFE 3.
BUILDING DESIGN CASE STUDIES l Energy ef ciency Burning fossil fuels contributes to atmospheric Energy ef ciency: Reducing energy pollution resulting in climate change, and damage to the environment and demand Edmonton Green A low energy public health.
We respect the three cardinal principles of reducing energy strategy has been adopted throughout the usage: be lean use less energy: be clean use energy ef ciently: and be development.
The residential units were green use renewables.
designed with high levels of insulation to minimise energy use.
Average U values Methods of reducing the energy demands of our buildings are considered were 27% above those required by Building at the outset of development.
These include: building layout and Regulations.
Additionally, low energy lighting orientation: window placement to avoid overheating: low U values to was speci ed throughout, reducing CO 2 prevent unwanted heat loss gain: high building mass to help keep 2 emissions to less than 45kg m year, and buildings warm in winter and cool in summer: low air permeability to enabling the development to achieve an Ecoreduce draughts and hence limit uncontrolled heat losses in winter: Homes rating of Good.
the use of natural ventilation: and the introduction of smart controls on Energy ef ciency: Integrating renewable heating and lighting to avoid waste.
energy Trentham Lakes Mine gas from this former colliery site is being extracted l Conserving water Water resources are becoming increasingly scarce and used to generate up to 4 megawatts of as demand continues to increase rapidly due to growing population and electricity, as well as preventing some 240 changing lifestyles and the predicted effects of climate change.
The key million cubic metres of methane from the to water conservation is water ef ciency rather than restriction of use.
mines being vented to the atmosphere.
Conservation of water can be achieved in buildings through the installation Conserving water Trafford Park We have of features such as dual ush toilets, water ef cient taps and rainwater installed a rainwater harvesting system for harvesting systems.
the new adidas warehouse, which has the capacity to store 75 cubic metres of collected rainwater.
This will dramatically cut mains water usage, as well as attenuating run-off from the development, hence reducing the EDMONTON GREEN risk of ooding.
A BUS STATION NEEDNT BE DULL THE NEW 16 STAND FACILITY IN LONDONS FIFTH BUSIEST BUS TERMINAL 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s s 40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4.
CONSTRUCTION CASE STUDIES l Sustainable materials Our resources are not limitless.
Non-renewable Sustainable materials Etruria Valley resources have built up over millions of years and are being rapidly In 1998 we built the temporary steel stock consumed by the construction industry.
However, sustainable materials yard using recyclable clay blocks.
In 2007 1.8 are becoming more readily available at reasonable costs and can be million of these have been lifted for reuse sourced locally.
To ensure that the most sustainable material is chosen following the closure of the yard.
for our developments the following factors are considered: the mass of Minimising waste Longbridge materials, the embodied energy of the materials the energy used in their Approximately 95% of all demolition production, their recycled content and the potential to recycle materials at materials are being reclaimed and reused.
To date, this includes 22,000 tonnes of steel sent for recycling, and over 200,000 tonnes l Minimising waste Land lling is currently the principal mode of waste of brickwork and concrete which is being disposal in the UK.
Land ll sites are a nite resource that may pollute crushed and reused on site.
365,000 litres water, soil and air in surrounding areas.
Reliance on land lling is an of fuel which leaked into the ground during unsustainable activity and a potential source of carbon dioxide and the operation of the former MG Rover car methane, both greenhouse gases contributing to climate change.
In plant have been recovered and sold back to all of our developments we seek to reduce waste generation at all stages re ners of our construction works and ensure that waste generated is disposed Preventing pollution Ludgershall of in a sustainable way.
For many years we have sought to avoid the We are working with the contractor to use of land ll.
On major sites our target is to eliminate land ll entirely champion industry-leading pollutionfrom ground remediation schemes and to seek to recycle the maximum prevention measures on this site: energy and water usage on site will be monitored amount possible from demolition activity and in 2007 94% of all our waste and reduction targets set: air pollution will materials were dealt with on site.
be measured and minimised: Environment l Preventing pollution The construction industry is a major source Agency procedures will be followed to of pollution, responsible for 4% of particulate emissions, more water safeguard against water pollution: and pollution incidents than any other industry and thousands of noise special measures have been taken to protect the sites ecology during construction, complaints every year.
Construction activities can also disrupt ecological including reptile-proof fencing and the communities.
We monitor contractors on all of our sites to ensure that programming of site clearance works to best practice measures to prevent pollution and ensure environmental minimise disruption to nesting birds.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 LLANWERN THE SORT OF CHALLENGE WE FACE REGULARLY: THE CONCRETE WILL BE PROCESSED INTO REUSABLE AGGREGATE, AND THE STEEL REINFORCEMENT SENT FOR RECYCLING 5.
SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS All our new schemes now bene t from: We are in the process of establishing rm, deliverable targets across a range of our activities l The use of our Sustainability Guide developed during 2007.
This embodies to ensure that our commitment to sustainability is a Sustainability Assessment System.
Using this assessment tool we both real and evidenced.
This process is will identify, with greater accuracy, all of the environmental impacts of well advanced in our traditional areas of our projects and so achieve continual improvement in our sustainability brown eld land, contract management and performance.
commercial development, where we now have l Site waste management plans.
Through these, we will manage the waste established targets.
In emerging areas, such generated by both our and our land purchasers construction activities, as apartment building, we are evaluating the limiting waste and maximising recycling.
balance between environmental aspiration and commercial reality and expect to establish targets over the coming year.
The targets we have established and our actual performance levels in 2007 are: 2007 2008 2009 % % % Brown eld land remediation On all of our brown eld sites where we need to remediate soils, we employ a variety of technologies to seek to eliminate off-site disposal.
In addition, we maximise the recycling of metals or other recyclable materials from this process.
Target: Percentage of remediated materials reused or recycled 94 95 96 Demolition On all our demolition projects we aspire to retain or recycle all demolition products on-site, with the exception of asbestos.
This is achieved by a combination of crushing and screening aggregates and mulching green waste for future use on-site, and segregating other materials such as metals, glass and wood for recycling.
Target: Percentage of demolition products reclaimed for retention on-site or recycling 88 89 90 Construction waste Construction waste generated from our projects will be reused or recycled through the application of our Site Waste Management Plans.
Adopting sustainable principles we will implement the following hierarchy avoid, reduce, reuse and recycle.
Target: Percentage of construction project waste reused or recycled 20 40 50 Commercial Buildings On our new commercial speculative building projects, we intend to increase progressively the proportion of our buildings achieving at least a very good BREEAM rating.
Target: Percentage of speculative industrial units in excess of 25,000 sq ft achieving at least a very good BREEAM rating 22 60 75 Target: Percentage of speculative of ces in excess of 5,000 sq ft achieving at least a very good BREEAM rating 52 70 75 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 s 42 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2007 2008 2009 % % % Reduced energy use On all our building projects we intend to reduce progressively their energy consumption in use.
Target: Energy consumption reduction above that involved in achieving Building Regulations on speculative projects in excess of 50,000 sq ft for industrial buildings and 25,000 sq ft for of ces 5 20 25 Water Our buildings will be designed to reduce water consumption through design ef ciencies and or water recycling technologies.
Target: Percentage of schemes with water usage reduction technologies 65 100 100 Target: Percentage of schemes with water recycling technologies 20 25 30 HEALTH & SAFETY The company gives high priority to safeguarding Detailed policies and procedures are documented and made available to the health and safety of the public and its all staff.
The Health and Safety Forum, chaired by the Company Secretary, employees by pursuing a policy which and reporting to the Chief Executive, meets regularly to discuss and resolve ensures that: implementation issues.
The procedures are reviewed by the board annually, with health and safety matters included on the agenda of every board l Its business is conducted in accordance with meeting.
standards that are in compliance with relevant statutory provisions for health and safety The Health and Safety Forum provides guidance to employees on all aspects of staff and any other persons on company of health and safety.
To assist, a Health and Safety Procedures Manual has premises: been produced.
l A safe and healthy working environment We ourselves undertake no construction work on site directly, therefore is established and maintained at all of the our assessment of a subcontractors or main contractors health and safety companys locations: procedures forms a key part of our supplier selection process, and is a vital element in our health and safety controls.
We ensure that health and safety l Managers at all levels regard health and safety audits are performed on all of our projects.
matters as a prime management responsibility: For our operational sites including Trentham Gardens, Solihull Ice Rink, l Suf cient financial resources are provided and our shopping centres, individual risk assessments are undertaken, and to ensure that policies can be carried out updated annually, by a retained health & safety consultant.
effectively: The companys health and safety performance continues to be very good, l Good standards of training and instruction in with no prosecutions for breaches of health and safety, and no fatalities.
matters of health and safety are provided and maintained at all levels of employment: HEALTH & SAFETY TARGETS 2007 2008 2009 l Risk assessments are carried out wherever % % % appropriate: l Co-operation of staff in promoting safe and The HSEs construction industry average is healthy conditions and systems of work is an Accident Incident Frequency Rate with required: respect to the number of hours worked on site of 10. l An adequate advisory service in matters of health & safety is provided and maintained.
Target: Accident Incident Frequency Rate in 10 9 8 relation to number of hours on site 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 COMMUNITIES AND SOCIAL INCLUSION Many of the projects undertaken by the company At a number of our sites, we provide free, or heavily subsidised, space often in partnership with local authorities and facilities for the use of local charities.
These include: free use of our and other public sector bodies are in areas of Trentham Gardens site for a number of charities including the Race for Life, signi cant deprivation.
We are therefore often the Donna Louise Trust, and the Douglas MacMIllan Hospice, which together at the forefront of attempts to address issues raised 750,000 from Trentham events: and the provision in our Edmonton of social exclusion, by providing local jobs and Green Shopping Centre of 10,000 sq ft of heavily subsidised accommodation improving local amenities, infrastructure and for an integrated network of training and employment charities and not for affordable housing stocks.
Outstanding examples pro t organisations, together with 15,000 sq ft of community theatre and in the last year included: the completion of a 27m arts-related facilities.
state-of-the-art new leisure centre at Edmonton Green in partnership with En eld Borough CASE STUDIES Council : and the launch of a major speculative Worcestershire Resource Exchange WRE was opened by the programme for small and medium enterprises Duckworth Worcestershire Trust in 2004 in some underutilised first in the city of Stoke-on-Trent involving 83 units oor space on our Gregorys Bank Industrial Estate in Worcester.
WRE totalling 287,000 sq ft. is a scrap-store which collects clean and safe waste from a range Once a project is under way, active participation in of industries and businesses and sells it as inexpensive resources.
local community activities is a key feature of the Customers of the Exchange include teachers and other educators, companys approach.
We deploy a combination community play workers, arts groups, Guide and Scout groups, as of initiatives to encourage local communities to well as members of the public.
WRE also operates a Community Reshare in the improvements brought about by its paint scheme: collecting unwanted paint from retailers, businesses regeneration schemes, including: and households, and redistributing them for reuse.
In 2007, the Trust approached us to see if we could help them nd some larger premises l Encouraging the employment of local people.
to meet the growing needs of the community.
We identi ed a unit l Incorporating opportunities for local traders in of nearly 8,000 sq ft at Shrub Hill Industrial Estate, close to the city markets or small units in our retail schemes at centre, which we refurbished in conjunction with WRE and the new sustainable levels of rent.
Our VSM Estates subsidiary supported Ruislip High School in l Subsidising local initiatives such as a Credit Hillingdon in its successful bid for Specialist Status in Maths and by Union, local radio stations and community providing funds for a new Maths and Computing Suite for the school.
The donation re ects our ongoing commitment to making a positive l Encouraging community participation in our contribution to local communities across the London Borough of developments.
At Trentham Gardens we have Hillingdon in which we are very active though our projects in Northolt, a team of 46 volunteers, 6 from special needs West Ruislip and Uxbridge.
groups, and 7 from groups supporting the rehabilitation of the long-term unemployed including the Princes Trust.
EMPLOYEES We encourage our employees to play an active role in ful lling the l Incorporating non-intrusive, but high levels of companys corporate social responsibility.
Schemes adopted by the St. security facilities in our schemes to reassure Modwen Environmental Trust require a project champion from amongst and protect the vulnerable.
the employees and we support employees taking an active role in local l Sponsoring local sport, leisure and charitable community bodies.
activities, including the Trentham Water Sports Association that provides access to water sports for universities, schools, disabled groups and local community initiatives, and the Dursley Bowls Club for whom we provided new changing rooms, kitchen and other clubhouse facilities.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LONGBRIDGE s AN AERIAL VIEW OF LONGBRIDGE, SHOWING THE DEMOLITION PROGRESSING FROM THE WEST WORKS THROUGH THE NORTH AND SOUTH WORKS TO THE EAST WORKS AND POWERTRAIN.
NANJINGS OPERATION IS LOCATED IN THE CENTRE, AND THE FUTURE IS REPRESENTED BY THE INNOVATION CENTRE, AND NEW OFFICE BUILDING IN THE LEFT FOREGROUND 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12
