The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 12 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Business review continued Our employees We now have over 17,100 staff members to whom we offer our thanks for their efforts over the past year.
We are continually striving to meet and exceed our employees expectations for a good and challenging working environment.
We know this is key to attracting and keeping a highly skilled and dedicated workforce who continue A workplace of opportunities to deliver outstanding customer service.
The group offers a workplace with great career opportunities for hard-working and committed individuals.
Here are examples of three long serving individuals who have enjoyed promotions and progression within the group.
Richard OBrien UK, who joined in 1990, is now Managing Director Clinical Solutions.
Heiko Teetzen Germany, who joined in 1996, became Divisional Healthcare Director in January 2008.
Hkan Olsson started with Berendsen Sweden in 1995, and was appointed Finland Managing Director during 2007.
Richard OBrien, UK Heiko Teetzen, Germany Hkan Olsson, Finland 25% Increased productivity in Sweden after introducing our CL2000 concept Inventing innovative ways of working The CL2000 production concept was developed by Berendsen in Sweden and is now implemented in 35 garment laundries across the Nordic and Continent Regions.
Employees work in small teams with responsibility for the complete production process.
Rotation of responsibilities and direct contact with the customer increase employee satisfaction, reduce work related injuries and absenteeism.
Since its implementation at 12 laundries in Sweden productivity has increased by nearly 25%.
Kjell Ostlund Production Process Manager, Berendsen The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 13 Governance Financial statements Investors Working beyond expectations We have a dedicated workforce who time and again show exibility and loyalty to our company.
In taking on the Brooks work in the UK in February 2007, over 2,700 customer accounts and their 740,000 weekly laundry pieces had to be promptly taken care of, a process that was completed within two weeks.
Throughout this business critical situation, our committed employees ensured that customer service issues were swiftly resolved with everyone working well beyond expectations.
Karen Thwaites Senior Service Manager South Sunlight Textile Services 2,700 New customer accounts 740,000 Pieces of weekly laundry Training and personal 2005 2007 development We are committed to providing best 44% 27% in industry job specic training to develop our staff.
Targeted training helps improve job satisfaction by increasing knowledge and by getting better personal results.
Top class training and investment in specialists Replacement ratio following job specific training in Holland has had tremendous results in terms of employee satisfaction, decreasing the replacement ratio for sales representatives signicantly.
Sales orders per employee have increased by 94% over the same period.
Sandra Verstraeten New Sales Representative, Holland
