The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 14 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Business review continued Our environmental impact We are committed to continually reducing the environmental impact of our operations, especially through decreasing our use of energy, water and chemicals.
With higher energy and utility prices in todays world, this makes sound business sense, and will ensure that we can continue to grow as a company in the future.
Inventing new technology where it matters Denmark Linen plants As drying in our linen plants accounts for about 50% of total energy consumption, any reductions in drying time are significant.
Some years ago our suppliers developed new dryers with Infrared IR technology.
In response we designed our own IR technology enabling very precise temperature control and more effective drying.
In 2007 we installed our IR technology on 45 dryers, leading to significant energy savings.
Savings in energy and water Ireland Milleld We have an on-going energy efficiency programme at our Milleld laundry, leading to significant savings in energy and water.
The savings are actually so significant that in 2007 the Spring Grove Milleld laundry received a Sustainable Energy Ireland award from the Minister for Environment as Overall Winner Energy efficiency Projects Small and Medium Sized Enterprises.
Energy efficiency programmes are common throughout the Davis Service Group.
25% Reduction in drying time after installing our IR technology 13% 2005-2007 Gas decrease 2005-2007 reduction 4%15% decrease in detergent use 2005-2007 2005-2007 Electricity decrease Water decrease The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 15 Governance Financial statements Investors Cleaning our waste water Poland Warsaw We have installed an advanced waste water cleaning system at our new workwear and mat operation in Warsaw.
A network of containers, chambers and tanks clean the waste water, checking pH levels and reducing organic contamination levels to at least acceptable levels.
After this process, the water is transferred to the public network.
We treat 100% of all the waste water from our washing machines about 3 100m day.
The system is very robust and can maintain its effectiveness, even if the capacity of the laundry increases.
100% Reducing detergent Waste water treated and utilities consumption from our washing machines Norway Sandnes Our management team in Norway worked recently with our supplier Ecolab to investigate possibilities to decrease the use of detergent, water and energy at our Sandnes plant.
As a result of this process, we installed a water recycling system, which has contributed to a 28% reduction in detergent use from 2005 to 2007.
