14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We take our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR seriously and are committed to implementing appropriate policies and systems across the Group.
These include concern for employees and their health and safety, care for the environment and community involvement.
The Board has responsibility for CSR and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies to create and maintain long term value for all stakeholders.
This is important for the Group as it helps to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance, and further develop the Groups reputation.
We have commenced a review of our CSR policies in the light of the changing profile of the Groups business to ensure that all stakeholders are properly represented and that each of our businesses acts appropriately with regard to its type of operations.
Health and Safety The Board believes that the health and safety of our employees, and persons affected by our operations, is of paramount importance and is committed to ensuring that we do much more than merely comply with all of our obligations and promote an active safety culture.
In recognition of this, the Board has established a Health and Safety Committee to have oversight of health and safety management of the business.
All Directors are fully aware of the Groups and their own responsibilities towards health and safety and fully support and provide resource for systems and initiatives that promote health and safety.
Following his recent appointment, the Chief Executive issued a personal health and safety commitment to all employees.
He has followed this up with programmes of face-to-face meetings with a large number of employees, particularly those working in higher risk areas of the business.
The Directors deeply regret the fatal accidents involving a contractor at Daw Mill colliery in January 2007 and an employee at Welbeck colliery in November 2007, both of whom were highly valued and experienced mine workers.
The Directors extend their most sincere sympathy for the loss of these men to their families and friends.
The management is dedicated to maintain and enhance controls and to make improvements throughout the Groups operational structure and activities recognising that it operates in an industry that has to control significant major hazards.
Health and safety is an integral part of the management accountability process with clear reporting lines up to Board level.
Health and safety training, risk assessment with appropriate Group and site control measures, health screening and the personalisation, through safe work instructions, of individuals roles are the key measures used to ensure health and safety compliance.
Internal audits are carried out at sites.
We have a programme of audits of the key major hazard control measures which is carried out centrally.
The Group is represented on a number of Industry Health and Safety Executive HSE consultation and working parties which it fully supports.
Recent work has involved publishing industry guidance on Guidance and Information on the role and Design of Safe Havens in Arrangements for Escape from Mines and Guidance on Brake Testing for Rubber-Tyred vehicles in Quarries, Open-Cast Coal Sites and Mines, all of which are published on the HSE website.
We have a Health and Safety Manager, supported by competent health and safety professionals, with a direct reporting line to the Board which receives regular updates on our safety performance and health and safety strategy.
Extensive Group-wide and local policies and procedures are in place and all employees are subject to ongoing health surveillance.
Safety inductions are a requirement for all staff and contractors working on sites and risk assessments are carried out for all new works to be undertaken.
Regular safety audits are conducted and the results of these are reviewed and signed-off by site managers.
These are supplemented by regular visits from officers of the appropriate regulatory authorities.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 39 We promote a healthy environment and a high standard of safety for all our employees and others who may be affected by our activities.
Underlying health and safety statistics continue to demonstrate year on year improvements in accident and ill health incidents which are reinforced by improving trends in disease-related claims and an underlying accident claims handling trend.
In 2007, there were 21 major injury accidents reported to the HSE compared to 30 in 2006 but unfortunately including 2 fatalities in 2 separate mines.
The overall reportable injury rate improved to 23.9 accidents per 100,000 manshifts 2006: 27.8 accidents per 100,000 manshifts.
This is an improvement on rates of 14% but the Company considers this insufficient improvement and will continue through the direction of management and the involvement and commitment of our employees to target further significant improvements in 2008.
All sites have appropriate emergency arrangements.
The deep mines are members of the Approved National Mine Rescue Scheme.
We have occupational health providers who carry out extensive health surveillance in order to enhance our development of risk control strategies, as the health of our employees, within an ageing workforce, is key to the success of the business.
Health surveillance includes a formal drugs and alcohol policy.
Health and safety training is, in the main, a standards-based process and the programmes ensure all persons are updated with current best practice.
Training is primarily contracted-out to professional providers.
A full review of the Groups health and safety training needs is being undertaken to ensure that the behavioural needs of our workforce are supported alongside our core training programmes.
Employees It is essential that we have a skilled and motivated workforce to ensure the long term success of the business.
We aim to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of employees within a structure that encourages their development and personal initiative.
We employ 3,100 people December 2006: 3,700, with the reduction primarily as a result of the sale of Maltby colliery.
We maintained our policy of maximising the redeployment of skilled and experienced mineworkers where possible.
The continuing review of working practices to meet the ever changing needs of the business resulted in operational and functional changes at most units, backed by training and refresher courses to develop further employee skills and safe working practices.
Regular dialogue is also maintained with the mining trade unions, particularly at operational level where the specific requirements of each individual unit are addressed.
As part of our communications strategy, we have continued to produce our NewScene newspaper on a regular basis, distributed free to employees to achieve a common awareness of the financial, economic and operational factors affecting business unit and Group performance.
We remain committed to all aspects of equal opportunities, recognising the value of a positive approach to diversity.
To this end, we are committed to providing equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion, career development, training and reward to all employees without discrimination and continue to be supportive of the employment of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe working environment.
39 14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 40 Environment The Environmental Policy commitments of the Group are to: Minimise pollution and comply with environmental legislation, and any agreements with external organisations in order to comply with ISO 14001 Maintain certification of environmental management systems to international standards at all mines Set and regularly review objectives and targets to achieve continuous improvement in environmental performance Use the principles of sustainable development to design new mines and restore completed mines to include long term environmental or community benefits Encourage the efficient use of coal with minimum emissions Maximise the use of other natural resources recovered with the coal Provide access to contact us about environmental issues and give a prompt response Ensure this policy is communicated to all employees, contractors and suppliers The first three year period of certification to ISO 14001 for all surface and deep mined sites was reached at the end of 2007.
A programme for expanding the ongoing continuous certification has been set up and will include the Mining Services department early in 2008.
Harworth Estates is currently progressing with its implementation of the system.
Increasing the coverage of our certified system will improve both the day-to-day operational procedures and longer term environmental risk management over all our activities.
Our Environmental Policy is reviewed by the Board, and both in-house and external audits ensure continued compliance.
Monitoring and analysis of emissions to air, water and land, as well as the use of natural resources, are carried out and, where appropriate, programmes to reduce emissions, or to reduce the use of natural resources are designed and implemented.
As new legislative regulations on waste and resources are introduced, our programmes to encourage reduction, reuse and recycling continue to show positive benefits to the environment and to improve the Groups profitability.
The Groups commitment to minimising greenhouse gas emissions continues, and is improved through projects such as the use of methane gas from deep mines to generate electricity, and where this is not feasible, flaring the methane.
This assists in the UK meeting its responsibilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto agreement, as well as reducing power costs on the Groups sites.
The Environment Department liaises with our suppliers through the purchasing function to look at ways of encouraging environmentally sustainable practices throughout the supply chain, in particular around waste packaging.
The Environment Manager is an active participant in the CBI East Midlands Environment Committee, which meets regularly with like-minded companies to share good environmental practice.
The success of our policies is judged internally by the use of internal performance indicators based on established criteria provided by DEFRA.
These have been introduced throughout the ongoing mining sites where appropriate reduction programmes and data collection will help us achieve our objectives.
Specific environmental successes at ongoing mines in 2007 included an 8% reduction in waste sent to landfill sites and an increase in recycled wastes of 12%.
There was also a reduction in towns water use of 23% when compared to 2006.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 41 Social and Community Issues We have maintained our philosophy of supporting suitable community projects focused on the surface and deep mines and also on major property developments operating at the heart of the communities in which they are based.
In Derbyshire, as a community project, we are now completing the stabilisation of a medieval stronghold, the Codnor Castle and Monument which dates back to shortly after the Norman Conquest.
By the time the work is completed this summer, around 1.5 million will have been spent on stabilising the castle and the nearby Jessop Monument Tower and Hall.
In addition, we typically plant up to 500,000 young trees a year on our restored surface mine sites and other land.
In the last decade, we planted around 4 million trees 1 million in the North East, 1 million in Yorkshire, 1.6 million in the Midlands and around 0.4 million in Scotland and the North West.
In 2007 we agreed to match awards made by the Miners Welfare National Educational Fund pound-for-pound to the family members of former and current employees studying full-time at a university or college or on a designated course of higher education.
Each year, the fund provides grants of around 50,000 in total.
UK COALs financial commitment to these schemes cannot be fully quantified at this time as the scheme for the current educational year is open to applicants until 31 March 2008.
We, however, estimate approximately 20,000 per annum will be distributed to qualifying applicants.
This initiative has been warmly welcomed by the communities in which we work and by the individuals who have received the support.
In addition to the Community Fund commitments providing support for projects to those living close to surface mine sites, charitable donations in the year totalled 4,200 2006: 5,300.
Contributions were also made to a wide range of individual and team activities, individual and Group events and sporting and academic aspirations benefiting all age groups.
It is anticipated that a similar level of donations will be sustained in 2008.
UK COAL PROJECT MANAGER BARRY KEATES PRESENTS A CHEQUE FOR 500 TO MEMBERS OF THE CODNOR CASTLE PRESERVATION SOCIETY TO HELP PROMOTE THEIR COMMUNITY WORK.
THE CASTLE IS SET TO BECOME PART OF THE REGIONS HERITAGE AND TOURIST MAP NOW A 1.5 MILLION UK COAL FUNDED PROJECT TO STABILISE THE MEDIEVAL REMAINS IS NEARING COMPLETION.
