Corporate responsibility report Core values: We believe that the highest standard of integrity is essential in business.
In all our activities, we aim to: be commercial and fair: respect the needs of our shareholders, our staff, our suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which we invest: maintain our integrity and professionalism: and strive for continual improvement and innovation.
Recognition for transparency Our approach 3is Corporate Responsibility Committee Philosophy the Committee considers and reviews 3is Corporate responsibility report for 2006 As an international business operating in environmental, ethical and social issues was awarded top place at the UK 2007 Investor 14 countries with over 750 employees relevant to 3is business and reports regularly Relations Society Best Practice Awards in April world-wide, we aim to conduct our business to the Board.
The 2006 Annual report as a whole was in a socially responsible manner.
We are these issues across the business through one of four short-listed for the best Annual Report: Most Effective Communication FTSE 100 award.
committed to being a responsible member training and communication.
It promotes of the communities in which we operate and the development of corporate responsibility recognise the mutual benefits of engaging policies, procedures and initiatives and and building relationships with those monitors and reviews their operation.
We believe that respect The Committee, on behalf of the Board, for human rights is central to good identifies and assesses the significant risks corporate citizenship.
and opportunities for 3i arising from social, ethical and environmental issues.
A risk In everything we do, we aim to be matrix methodology is used to identify commercial and fair, to maintain our integrity and assess potential risks and their impact, and professionalism and to respect the needs monitor developing trends and best practice, of shareholders, staff, suppliers, the local and consider changes in 3is business and community and the businesses in which culture.
A Group-wide risk log is used to we invest.
record identified risks and to monitor their We aim to be a responsible employer and management and mitigation.
This log of have adopted corporate values and standards identified risks is reviewed and updated at designed to help guide our employees in meetings of the Committee and significant their conduct and business relationships.
risks are reported to 3is Operational These values and standards are an integral Risk Committee.
As Chairman of the Committee, We endeavour to comply with the laws, Tony Brierley, has specific responsibility regulations and rules applicable to our for 3is environmental policies, leading the business and to conduct our business in development of new initiatives and targets accordance with established best practice and reporting to the Board.
The Committees in each of the countries in which we operate.
membership reflects the balance of 3is Environmental, ethical and social responsibility business with representation from Europe, issues and standards are also taken into Asia and the US and from a range of business consideration in every aspect of the business.
Responsibilities and accountabilities All employees have a responsibility to be The Board as a whole is responsible for aware of, and to abide by, 3is policies and ethical standards.
The executive Directors procedures which have been developed are responsible for ensuring compliance to guide staff and regulate the conduct of with 3is corporate values and standards.
the day-to-day operations of the business.
These policies and procedures include 3is environmental, ethical and social policies, and are available to all employees through 3is portal, a web-based knowledge system.
Employees are encouraged to make d suggestions to improve these policies For further information on our approach and procedures.
com shareholders cr 3i Group plc 40 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders in association with 3i is proud to be one of the BitCs Top 100 3i is a constituent of the 2007 Dow Jones Companies that count.
As an investor Although we do not have day-to-day All new investment opportunities are the Investment policy operational control over the companies in subject of a process of filtering and review.
3i has a portfolio of over 750 investments which we invest, we do have the opportunity When a potential new investment in businesses across Europe, Asia and the US.
to influence the behaviour of these opportunity is first identified by an As an investor, corporate governance businesses.
We expect and encourage the investment professional, it is added to the is a priority and account is taken of companies in which we invest to take a Companys work in progress list Work in environmental, ethical and social issues responsible approach to the conduct and Progress.
Following a preliminary appraisal when making investment decisions.
governance of their business and to put in of the potential investment opportunity, a place governance structures, policies and decision is taken by the investment We believe it is important to invest in processes appropriate to the nature and scale professionals local team as to whether the companies whose owners and managers of the business and the markets in which it investment opportunity merits further work.
act responsibly on environmental, ethical operates.
This is supported through the At this stage the opportunity is reviewed in and social matters.
We therefore aim to training of investment staff and nondetail by a group of senior and experienced invest in companies which: executive Directors who are appointed to the investment executives in the relevant respect human rights: boards of investee companies and the raising business line known as the Partner of awareness within investee companies of Review.
If it is agreed through the Partner comply with current environmental, social, environmental and ethical issues.
3i is Review process that a particular investment ethical and social legislation: also active in promoting good governance in opportunity should continue to be pursued, have proposals to address defined future the private equity industry through the the Partner Review process will also agree legislation: and provision of tutors for courses run by the what further in-depth analysis and due BVCA and the EVCA.
seek to comply with their industry Investment procedures standards and best practice.
We have policies and procedures to reduce We recognise that the most significant risks the risks of investing in businesses which to 3is short-term and long-term value operate in an environmentally, ethically or from environmental, ethical and social socially unacceptable manner.
Details of matters arise from its investment business.
these policies and procedures may be found If a company in which 3i has an investment on 3is website at www.
acts irresponsibly on corporate responsibility issues, this may affect the monetary value of When reviewing businesses for potential that investment and, as a shareholder in that investment, investment executives are company, raise reputational issues for 3i.
required to consider whether any corporate responsibility risks arise and, if any risks are identified, to follow 3is corporate responsibility investment procedures.
Depending on the nature of the risk identified and its seriousness, a condition precedent or post completion undertaking requiring that the situation be remedied may be required from the investee company or its management.
Alternatively, it may be decided not to proceed with the investment.
3i Group plc 41 Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued World-wide conference The decision to continue to pursue a As a corporate particular investment opportunity will As an employer Our One room: One firm culture is key to our be taken against a number of criteria and 3is staff are fundamental to the success success and the value that we bring to the policies, including commercial, financial, of our business.
An environment of mutual companies in which we invest.
Although working sector, geographic, environmental, ethical respect where staff are highly motivated across three continents in small highly-focused and social considerations.
Following a Partner around their work, where they have a strong teams, with just over 750 employees it is feasible for 3i to bring all of our staff together in one room.
Review, and providing the results of the commitment to deliver, and where retention Our 2006 conference, which was attended by detailed analysis and due diligence of the is good are the standards we strive both to over 700 staff, was a great success and one of opportunity are positive, the investment achieve and maintain.
the highest-rated sessions at the conference was opportunity will be submitted for formal Employees are organised in small teams and on community involvement.
At this stage, any potential a spirit of co-operation is encouraged to environmental, ethical or social issues in ensure the highest standards of integrity and the investment opportunity will be formally professionalism.
In accordance with 3is core identified and a decision taken against 3is values, individual consultation with employees investment policies and procedures whether on matters affecting them, and fair and open to proceed with the proposed investment, communication, are a high priority.
Our Chief Executive plans to meet separately Over the year 1,054 potential new with each team every year to listen to their investments were placed in Work in Progress, views and insights and to share his vision and 196 of which proceeded to a Partner Review strategy for the business.
In addition, his and 62 new investments were approved policy is to have a one to one meeting with and completed.
each new joiner, regardless of organisational Where, after an investment has been made, level.
we become aware that an investee company A conference was also held in London for is not operating in an acceptable way, we all 3is staff world-wide.
The objectives will seek to use our influence to encourage of this conference included reinforcing improvement.
Where that is not possible, 3is One room: One firm philosophy, we will seek to dispose of the investment.
emphasising that whilst 3is 750 plus staff Over the course of the year, all existing may work in many different locations and investments in the portfolio were the subject markets across the world, it operates as one of review.
firm with a strong culture working across Relationship management borders and harnessing the knowledge and Our key relationships are with the boards skills of its people from across the world.
of the companies in which we invest, together with the intermediaries, advisers Our people and consultants used to facilitate Employee engagement is the extent to investment and portfolio management.
which employees are committed to their We actively engage with these groups to role, their team and the Group and its benchmark our performance and improve objectives.
How effective and productive our investment procedures and skills.
they are as a result of this commitment and levels of retention are indicators of engagement.
3i Group plc 42 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Environmental Awareness Day Every two years a comprehensive 3i has comprehensive behaviour policies confidential employee survey of staff is to help ensure that employees treat their In March 2007, an environmental awareness day conducted which includes a number of colleagues and others with courtesy and was held for 3is London-based staff to report our questions that have a proven correlation to respect.
3is Guide to Business Conduct progress on reducing 3is CO2 emissions and to employee engagement.
The last survey was sets out the rules and guidelines we expect raise awareness on practical ways in which staff conducted in 2005 06.
In order to monitor all of our staff to follow with the objective can help at work and at home.
The event was also attended by the Chairman and other progress a mini-survey of the employee of ensuring that we maintain professional Directors.
We are now considering ways to hold engagement questions only was conducted standards in all aspects of the conduct of similar events across the 3i network in an during the year.
The response rate, at 78%, our business.
was high, with an overall average of the 3i also has a whistle-blowing policy setting favourable responses to the questions out procedures for staff to raise in confidence of 87%.
This was 3% higher than the average matters of concern, for an appropriate and for the same questions in 2005 06. independent investigation of such matters Not only are the individual scores significantly and, where necessary, for follow-up action.
higher than the 2005 Ipsos MORI Top Ten norm which was used to benchmark the Training and development full 2005 06 survey, but favourable scores We are committed to encouraging the of over 95% were recorded against the continuous development of our staff with statements I am always looking for ways the objective of maximising the overall to do my job better, I am committed to performance of the business.
Emphasis is helping 3i to achieve its objectives and placed on work-based learning, with the I am proud to work for 3i.
provision of development opportunities supported by appropriate coaching and mentoring.
This is supplemented by more formal training programmes, such as workshops to enhance the board management skills of our investment staff.
In addition, investment staff are required to complete an investment training programme on joining 3i, and professional services staff are supported in developing their functional specialisms through external courses, networks and forums.
During the year, 306 employees attended internal training and development courses.
It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives involved in making or managing investment transactions receive anti-money laundering training and periodic refresher training.
A programme of training is in place to discharge these obligations.
3i Group plc 43 Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued A programme of sector-based workshops Health and safety Procurement and training courses has been developed We recognise that the promotion of health We have developed policies and procedures for investment staff focusing on corporate and safety at work is an essential function relating to the purchasing of goods responsibility.
The objectives of these of staff and management at all levels.
and services for use by the business.
workshops are to ensure that staff remain In an endeavour to achieve high standards, These policies and procedures must be fully informed of 3is corporate responsibility appropriate policies and procedures have followed by all staff.
As far as possible, we policies, to identify and raise awareness to been put in place.
Details of these policies will work only with suppliers who support specific sector or geographical issues and and procedures can be found on 3is website our aim to source products responsibly.
to gain input to the formulation of policy.
Simon Ball as Finance Suppliers that exploit child or sweated During the year, workshops were held for Director, has overall responsibility for the labour, that disregard social legislation investment executives in 3is software sector implementation of 3is health and safety and basic health and safety provision, that and Infrastructure and Asia investment teams policies and procedures.
A Health and pirate the intellectual property of others and further workshops are planned.
In March Safety Committee, chaired by the Company or that wilfully and avoidably damage the 2007 an Environmental Awareness Day was Secretary, Tony Brierley, has been established environment will be avoided.
Details of 3is arranged for 3is London-based staff around to oversee the application of these policies procurement policies may be found on 3is a screening of the Oscar-winning Al Gore and procedures and to consider health and website at www.
The objectives safety risks across the business.
We aim to have a collaborative relationship of the day were to raise further the The purpose of 3is health and safety policy with our suppliers and, wherever possible, awareness of staff to climate change issues, is to enable all members of 3is staff to when problems arise with a suppliers to report on 3is own carbon footprint and go about their everyday business at 3is performance or behaviour, will work with to discuss ways in which 3i and individual offices in the expectation that they can the supplier concerned to help them meet members of staff might take steps to reduce do so safely and without risk to their health.
Following the success of High standards of health and safety are this event, further awareness days are being applied to staff and sub-contractors and planned for other offices.
we endeavour to ensure that the health, Training for Directors on corporate safety and welfare of our employees, responsibility issues is achieved through a visitors, customers, sub-contractors staff system of regular Board reporting and by and the general public is not compromised.
Board presentations on relevant corporate Our objective is not to have any reportable responsibility issues.
During the year to 31 March 2007, no reportable accidents occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations or under similar regulations outside the UK.
As a member of Tommys Pregnancy Accreditation Programme, 3i complies with criteria for pregnancy management, geared towards creating a positive environment for parents-to-be in the workplace.
3i Group plc 44 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders As an active and committed participant in the Environment This was achieved largely as a result of a promotion of sustainable technologies, 3i sees As a financial services business employing move to more energy efficient offices in opportunities to form partnerships and make approximately 750 employees world-wide, London.
For the future, 3is objective is to investments in forward-thinking businesses and 3is direct environmental impact is relatively become carbon neutral over the course of SFC is one example.
However, we measure our own energy the three years to 31 March 2010. and resource usage where practicable SFC Smart Fuel Cell AG We assess the environmental standards and set targets to achieve improvement.
of suppliers and, through our procurement Location: Germany A benchmark against which we measure policy and our purchasing choices, will favour Website: www.
com our performance is for CO emissions 2 products showing clear environmental associated with our office accommodation.
Fuel cells have long been recognised as alternative advantages unless there are significant Our previously published objective has been power sources.
However, their promise has been reasons for not so doing.
to reduce CO emissions attributable to slow to materialise into real products.
2 office accommodation by 6% over the two In 2004, SFC was the worlds first company years to 2007, from approximately 6,964 to introduce a fully commercialised fuel cell to tonnes of office related CO emissions 2 the market.
Today the company is one of the generated in the year to 31 March 2005. international market leaders in mobile and portable Following an independent assessment by fuel cells in a power range from 10 to 250 W, CarbonNeutral against the World Business selling several thousand fuel cells per year into a wide range of applications in leisure and industrial Council for Sustainable Development markets.
Fuel cells made by SFC are providing greenhouse gas protocol, CO emissions 2 electrical energy globally.
These are used in attributable to office accommodation in the recreational vehicles, yachts, holiday homes, year to 31 March 2007 have been assessed traffic monitoring systems, observation stations, at 5,110 tonnes: a reduction of 26.6% over light electric vehicles and other applications.
the two year period to 31 March 2007.
A product by SFC was also the first fuel cell ever to be installed as original equipment in a vehicle.
Corporate responsibility issues It powers the electrical system in the Hymer 5 and the environment Class RV.
The principal benchmarks against which SFC, which employs 75 people, is already 3i measures its direct impact on the developing portable fuel cells weighing less environment are for CO emissions: and 2 than 1kg.
recycling of paper and other materials.
3i Group plc 45 Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued 3i is proud to be a founding investor in Bridges 3i helped to found EET formerly businessdynamics Ventures, a privately-owned UK venture capital 30 years ago and has continued to support its company with a social mission.
Bridges was work in inspiring school children to get involved founded in 2002, since when it has made equity in business ever since.
Over 90,000 pupils took investments in 24 businesses employing 700 part in EET programmes in 2006. people, almost 200 of whom came out of unemployment.
The Passage Charity and community Performance and measurement 3is charitable policy aims to focus on: The Committee has overseen the Following the move of our London office to formulation and implementation of corporate Victoria in 2006, 3i identified The Passage, a the disadvantaged, young people and responsibility investment procedures, locally based charity focused on helping homeless education in the communities in which implemented appropriate risk management people back into employment, as one which had we have offices.
Charities are supported high local impact.
We quickly formed a relationship procedures and set strategic targets and on the basis of their effectiveness with The Passage and are now providing financial objectives for corporate responsibility.
and impact: and other support.
3is performance is measured against charitable activities of staff.
3i matches two indices: donations made by UK staff under the Give As You Earn scheme GAYE and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index the proceeds of staff fundraising efforts.
DJSI, a global index which tracks the In the year to 31 March 2007, 25% of financial performance of leading companies 3is charitable donations were matching in terms of corporate sustainability: and GAYE donations: the Business in the Community BitC charities relevant to our corporate activity.
Corporate Responsibility Index, which For example, 3i founded and supports the aims to benchmark environmental, ethical Enterprise Education Trust, a charity now and social performance and encourage in its 30th year, which aims to inspire sustainable development.
young people to become involved in, 3i has again been selected as a constituent and understand business.
of the DJSI during the year and was leader Charitable donations made in the year to of its industry group on a global basis.
31 March 2007 amounted to 429,409, We were also recognised as one of the best supporting a variety of charities with companies on a global basis in respect of our donations up to 35,000. codes of conduct, compliance and anti-crime measures.
We aim to continue to be included within this Index.
3i Group plc 46 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders In 2006 we again participated in the annual Audit and verification The Corporate Responsibility BitC Corporate Responsibility Index and were The Committee is responsible for monitoring Committee included in the BitCs Top 100 Companies the operation of 3is corporate responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Committee that Count.
In particular, the integration into policies and procedures.
The identification comprises Tony Brierley, Company the business of our corporate responsibility and management of corporate responsibility Secretary and Chairman of the principles and risk management processes risks is integral to the ongoing operational Committee, Denise Collis, Group Human relating to corporate responsibility issues processes of 3is business units and Resources Director, Patrick Dunne, Group were recognised.
We aim to continue functions.
3is internal audit function carries Communications Director, Douwe Cosijn, to be included within this Index.
out periodic independent reviews of risks Head of Investor Relations, Albert Xu, and related controls in this area, including an Investment Director in 3is Asia Each of 3is business unit and department compliance with 3is corporate responsibility investment business, Hans Middelthon, heads is required to confirm on an annual investment procedures.
an Investment Director in 3is Oil and basis that their operating procedures, Gas team, Ben Gales, a Director in 3is including investment procedures, are The Committee may also supplement US Venture Capital team and Michael consistent with 3is standards and controls internal review processes with external Robinson, a Director responsible for 3is and that these procedures are operating reviews where necessary.
is not aware of any material breaches in the application of 3is internal policies 3is performance management appraisal and procedures for managing risks from process reviews the performance of corporate responsibility issues.
individual members of staff against agreed objectives and the knowledge, skills and The disclosures in this Corporate behaviours expected by 3i.
All 3is offices responsibility report are the subject are the subject of health and safety audits of a process requiring each statement to ensure high standards are adopted on a made to be verified.
During the year, at the invitation of 3is Chairman, Baroness Hogg, 3is major shareholders met with the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary to discuss matters of corporate governance and corporate responsibility relevant to 3i and its shareholders.
3i Group plc 47 Report and accounts 2007
