36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility The Admiral Group is committed to dealing fairly and with a high level of integrity with all its stakeholders.
The corporate responsibility report sets out our approach and the way we measure our success in dealing with each group of stakeholders: Customers The Group has always regarded its customers as central to the success of the business.
As at 31 December 2007 the Group insured 1.5m vehicles, up 16% from 1.3m the year before.
We focus on open communication with our customers providing high standards of service at all points in the customer cycle from new business, customer service, renewals, claims and complaints.
The Group's commitment to quality is demonstrated through its Quality Measures Programme.
Everyone in the organisation has a part to play in ensuring a high standard of quality.
Every department in the Group has a unique set of quality measures to gauge performance..
The measures are updated each year to challenge staff to make continual improvements.
The programme is reported every month in the internal Company magazine and awards are presented each year for the best departments.
The annual measures bonus provides a financial incentive for staff to drive incremental change throughout the business and was paid out in full for the 2007 year.
As well as this programme, quality representatives throughout the Group monitor the service the Company provides through the thousands of comment forms it receives back from customers every month.
By listening to customer comments, Admiral can improve the quality of service it provides.
The Groups Compliance department is now working on a Treating Customers Fairly management information pack pulling together specific measures that will demonstrate that we are consistently treating our customers fairly.
Employees We believe the happier our staff are, the better they will do their job.
This means that we constantly work to improve our staffs working environment.
We also try to make sure that the working day for our staff is as fun and rewarding as we can make it.
It is important for employees to understand the Companys goals and objectives.
We work to communicate this in as many ways as possible.
As an example, we encourage staff to attend our Annual Staff General Meeting SGM.
The SGM is arranged to enable staff to hear the views of the executive directors and some of the non-executive directors on a wide range of subjects including the performance of the Group and the market within which we operate: the experiences of non-executive directors within and outside of the Group: and the Groups share plans.
We believe that employing well-informed staff will improve motivation and make Admiral a better place to work.
The best measures of our staffs assessment of their working environment are the surveys that they have completed.
Following independent measurement by the organisations involved Admiral has received the following awards: ADMIRAL GROUP plc 37 Staff celebrate the opening of new Swansea office The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For Admiral has been included in all eight years of the publication and was ranked 57th overall in the last list published.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Position 32 42 46 60 20 20 21 57 The Financial Times 50 Best Workplaces in the UK we have been included in all five years of the publication, which has not yet been published for 2008.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Position 7 16 17 8 Top 10 Individual positions within the top 10 were not provided in 2007.
The Group also carries out its own annual internal web-based survey both to collect employees views on what it is like working for Admiral and to address areas where issues are raised.
Overall, the results continued to show that 91% of employees feel proud to be associated with Admiral, 82% feel that morale is high in their department and 89% feel that morale is high throughout the Company as a whole.
The survey results are split down by department and each manager is expected to share the survey results with their team, explore issues and concerns, and then make recommendations to address them.
Corporate responsibility 36 - 39 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Community Admiral has adopted a charitable giving policy, which supports the local communities in which its employees live and work.
During 2007, 110 local organisations were helped with a total donation of 25,000.
Financial support is an important part of our commitment to our local communities and our customers.
We contribute both as a Company and as individuals through a variety of schemes.
Admiral sponsored Champion Child of Courage Award Custard pie throwing for charity Environment The Groups impact on the environment stems from its use of resources to run its offices in Cardiff and Swansea and its communications with customers.
In addition, the Group now has operations in Spain, Germany and will launch in Italy later in 2008.
It also operates a call centre in Halifax, Canada, which employs over 100 staff.
The Group does not own the properties that it occupies and is, therefore, reliant upon the cooperation of the managing agents of the properties to make changes that could reduce the consumption of energy and water.
The figures quoted for energy use do not yet include overseas properties but travel to and from these businesses is included within the figures quoted in the table below.
In 2008 reporting will be included by country.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for the Groups approach to its impact upon the environment and during 2007 steps were taken to ensure that systems were put in place to collect the information necessary to report fully on the Groups UK operations.
Raising and maintaining staff awareness of, and ensuring that employees are actively engaged in, activities to reduce the impact of the Groups operations on the environment.
Measuring, monitoring and reporting on the key aspects of the Groups environmental performance and regularly reviewing progress to reduce the amount of resources consumed per employee.
Reporting key environmental performance indicators, taking into account the ABIs Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and guidance provided by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 39 Impact Area Usage Consumption measure 2007 Energy 000 Kwh 6,997 381 Kwh m2 CO2 tonnes 4,033 1.71 tonnes per employee Water m3 14,836 6.28 per employee Waste management: Total waste 239,139 KG Waste to landfill 128,278 KG Waste recycled 110,861 KG 46% recycled Travel Car miles 279,920 118 miles per employee Rail miles 213,357 90 miles per employee Air Miles 1,120,537 474 miles per employee The figures above are for the Groups UK operations.
Energy The main source of the Groups carbon emissions is the consumption of electricity and gas for its three UK offices.
The Cardiff head office is the older and least efficient, built in the 1960s and housing just over 1,200 people.
The Swansea office, housing 1,100 staff was built in 2006 and is therefore a much more efficient building.
The third office is also located in Cardiff housing 130 staff.
During the last quarter of 2007 electricity supply to the Cardiff office was switched to Green electricity which is defined in the The Renewables Obligation Order 2002 as the following types of electricity in order of importance in 2006-07 : landfill gas, On-shore wind, small Hydro 20 MW DNC, Co-firing of biomass with fossil fuel, Biomass, Off-shore wind, Sewage gas, Micro hydro, Biomass and waste using advanced conversion technology, Photovoltaics and Wave power.
During the year the Group started purchasing re-cycled paper for all internal use and is investigating sources of recycled paper for communications with customers.
Environmental risks The Group has reviewed the risks facing its business operations as a result of climate change.
The volume of motor insurance claims for any given portfolio of business is to a large degree dependent upon weather conditions.
The risk associated with climate change is the potential change to claims frequency through the impact of more extreme weather patterns.
It is virtually impossible to model the potential impact of climate change on claims frequency as the actual climate change induced outcome for the UK is unknown.
However, the Group does assess the potential costs associated with a number of disaster scenarios such as a major storm in the South East, major flood on the East Coast, and a complete flooding of the Thames in the London area.
The Group maintains sufficient reinsurance cover to provide protection in the event of catastrophes of this nature.
