qxp:Layout 1 15 3 08 10:44 Page 38 Directors Report Business Review 38 Corporate Responsibility The way we work Corporate Responsibility CR is the way we work at BG Group.
The Groups success is Companies that prosper economically dependent on operating to high standards, as set out in our Business Principles.
CR is over the long term are companies that an essential part of our business decisionmaking process.
This section summarises BG Groups performance in the four areas of CR: Conduct, Our People, Society and Frank Chapman Environment.
More detail can be found Chief Executive in the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is published separately.
For BG Group, CR means putting our 2007 in review Business Principles into practice.
BG Group has had a statement of principles in place External target set for BG Group Lost Time Injury Frequency per million since 1998 and reviews this annually.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions man hours worked improved to BG Groups Business Principles consist of reductions 0.26 BG Groups lowest-ever figure 15 statements of core values and behaviours.
The Business Principles, which are mandatory GHG emissions from operations Goldman Sachs ranked BG Group for all employees, are supported by two under BG Groups control rose by as a sustainable investing leader documents: Corporate Commitments, which 3.2 million tonnes, primarily due in GS Sustain provides more detail on the Business to acquisitions Principles to external stakeholders: and Principles into Practice, which provides practical guidance for employees on applying the Business Principles in business life.
These documents have been translated into 12 languages and can be found online at www.
com business principles Assessment In 2007, Goldman Sachs ranked BG Group as a sustainable investing leader in the Corporate oil and gas sector in the GS Sustain focus Responsibility list, their analysis of the sustainability of corporate performance.
This research combines environmental, social and governance performance with financial returns to rank companies for Goldman Sachs sustainable investment focus list.
The Group continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good index and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
CONDUCT BG Group expects its people to maintain the highest standards, both in how they work together and in how they deal with partners, contractors, governments, customers and the public.
com t S c o u c d i n e t o y C DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p38-41 v26.
qxp:Layout 1 15 3 08 10:44 Page 39 39 Employee awareness OUR PEOPLE Business Principles training is integrated into At 31 December 2007, BG Group employed Lost time injury frequency per million hours worked business training courses and provided in 5 098 people, 3 403 of whom were employed separate specic training sessions.
The Group encourages its more than 1 300 people received training, people to share knowledge and develop more than one third of whom were in cross-cultural experiences: in 2007, 101 non- 0.8 management roles.
UK USA nationals were employed in roles 0.7 outside their home country.
The Groups aim An online Business Principles training tool of localising roles wherever possible continues.
0.6 was developed during the year, and is accessible Group-wide.
This provides Business The Group recruited 694 people in 2007.
0.5 Principles training for BG Group employees BG Group is committed to equality and 0.4 and contractors, and will be mandatory.
diversity: by using the talent and skills available in the communities and societies Governance and compliance 0.3 within which it operates, the Group is able There is strong CR leadership and to build a strong foundation for the lasting 0.2 engagement by the Group Executive success of its business.
BG Group has had a Board-level 0.1 Corporate Responsibility Committee since In 2007, BG Group introduced a new reward 05 06 07 2005, membership of which includes both framework.
The link between reward and the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Its performance is now more transparent, and full membership and responsibilities are bonus payments are directly linked to HSSE set out in the Governance Framework on and behavioural objectives.
Employees by region pages 50 to 57.
As at 1 January 2008 During the year, the Group launched a The total number of whistleblowing and fraud learning and development Core Curriculum.
cases during 2007 was 40 34 whistleblowing, 118 courses were attended by a total of 984 six fraud.
We found evidence of fraud in employees in 12 countries.
Whilst the core two cases, and three cases are still under content was developed centrally, countries investigation.
Two employees contracts have are encouraged to adapt material to meet been terminated and Company procedures their local requirements.
The amounts involved Safety in cases of fraud ranged from 25 to 17 000.
BG Groups commitment to safety, the Groups None of the reported fraud cases demonstrated highest priority, continues to be reected a material weakness over financial reporting in performance.
In 2007, Lost Time Injury controls, and they did not involve employees Frequency per million hours worked improved who have a significant financial reporting role.
Africa, Middle East and Asia 42% to 0.26, BG Groups lowest-ever gure, in line Americas and Global LNG 41% During 2007, the Groups Whistleblowing with a continuous improvement since the STEP Europe and Central Asia 17% Policy was reviewed and a revised policy UP safety initiative was introduced in 2005. will be launched in 2008.
However, there were two fatalities in 2007, Does not include corporate central staff Investor dialogue and one fatality in early 2008, shortly after BG Group maintains a programme of the end of the reporting period.
engagement with its major shareholders In 2007, a driver working at our Karachaganak on CR issues, including face-to-face meetings joint venture in Kazakhstan was killed in a with analysts and written responses to surveys.
The driver had received In addition, reports and presentations can be defensive driving training and the road accessed from the Group website.
and weather conditions were good.
The In 2007, BG Groups Regional Managing investigation, supported by forensic crash Director for Europe and Central Asia led a specialists, concluded the collision was caused discussion with the Socially Responsible by loss of control of the vehicle.
no evidence that the vehicle was faulty.
qxp:Layout 1 15 3 08 10:44 Page 40 Directors Report Business Review 40 Corporate Responsibility continued Driver training and control of vehicle and SOCIETY journey management procedures have Social performance Voluntary contributions to social been strengthened.
During the year, BG Group developed a new and educational projects m Social Performance Policy and Standard, Also in 2007, in South Korea, a welder working which are based on the International Finance on the construction of one of the Groups new Corporation standards and which will be LNG ships in a contractor shipyard died as a 5 rolled out in 2008. result of asphyxiation.
A full investigation of immediate and system causes has been BG Groups social performance aim is to 4 carried out.
This investigation is being support the Group's business objectives by followed up by BG Group and senior managing our operational risks and aligning management in the shipyard.
3 our businesses with host government interests.
Through this, we aim to make a In February 2008, a Gujarat Gas Company positive and enduring contribution to the Limited pipelaying contractor died following 2 sustainable development of host an incident during street works.
incident has been investigated to identify 1 any lessons learned.
The Groups social performance objectives are met by establishing and maintaining effective The STEP UP safety initiative continued in 05 06 07 relationships with interested and affected 2007.
Employees and long-term contractors stakeholders: by avoiding or minimising the are trained in safety intervention, thereby a Includes a one-off and now complete negative impacts of our activities: and by project in Brazil for 0.4 million.
raising their safety awareness and giving creating and delivering on opportunities to them the skills to intervene if they observe enhance benets to the societies in which unsafe behaviour.
Combined with the Groups we operate.
behaviour-based safety programme, this Greenhouse gas emissions from training has led to increased reporting of Human rights BG Group-operated facilities hazards and near-misses, which allows the BG Groups support for human rights is million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent Group to take remedial action to reduce the based on recognition of the principles in the risk of incidents.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and core International Labour Organization Health 10 conventions on equality, freedom of association In 2007, BG Group launched a Pressure and and abolition of forced and child labour.
This includes programmes on stress prevention and 8 The Groups ability to safeguard human management for employees and managers.
rights is related to the degree of control it is able to exert.
Within its operations, BG Group BG Group has a global employee assistance 6 protects the human rights of employees programme that provides independent, through policies that cover equal opportunity condential support and advice, anonymously 4 and non-discrimination, security and labour if required.
BG Group requires all key employees used this service.
In many of contracts to include the expectation that our overseas locations, employees also 2 contractors will apply BG Group or equivalent have the option of a locally-based service.
Business Principles, including the Security 05 06 07 commitment to human rights.
The personal security of employees and a Based on data not available at the time During 2007, BG Groups Governance and contractors is the Groups most important of production of the BG Group 2006 Risk Committee approved a new human security objective.
BG Group also seeks to Annual Report and Accounts, which rights management system for all assets.
In protect its physical assets, data and reputation.
quoted 6.0 million tonnes per annum.
addition, the Group produced and rolled out Many of our employees travel abroad, or an implementation guide for the Voluntary work in countries with unfamiliar customs Principles on Security and Human Rights.
and differing levels of security threat.
All employees who travel internationally are Sustainable development required to attend regular security briengs.
BG Group seeks to ensure its operations deliver positive and enduring benets to host In countries considered to be high risk, travel security plans are put in place.
countries and communities, whilst working www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:48 Page 41 Greenhouse gas emissions targets 41 Tunisia The amine regeneration system introduced in 2007 at the Hannibal gas plant in Tunisia has reduced annual greenhouse gas emissions by more than 30 000 tonnes.
BG Group has committed to investing drive GHG reductions from positive responsibly in line with our Business in operational and new project actions, achieving the internal target Principles.
The Groups commitment to improvements to deliver one million of 120 000 tonnes reduction in 2007. sustainable development is delivered through: tonnes of sustainable GHG reductions In addition to these operational measures, an environmental policy that is based by 2012 approximately 8% of forecasted close attention is being paid to the design on going beyond compliance with local 2012 Group GHG emissions.
This target of new facilities to ensure that GHG regulations to meet internationally represents the intended outcome of emissions reduction opportunities accepted best practice: measures taken between 2006 and 2012 are incorporated at the design stage.
to reduce the rate of emissions growth the creation of a new Social Performance More information on the Group target is measured against a no-action base case.
Standard see page 40 : and available in the BG Group 2007 Corporate The Group Enhanced GHG Management Responsibility Report.
the aim of working with host governments Programme, set up in 2006, continued to to maximise the economic benets of Group investments to host country economies.
For more information visit The Group has commissioned two www.
com investors independent institutes, in Egypt and India, to conduct detailed studies to identify the direct, ENVIRONMENT power stations, taken as a whole, operate indirect and induced economic effects of the Climate change is a critical issue for energy at higher efficiencies than US average gas Groups operations on employment and companies.
During 2007, the Intergovernmental generation: co-generation is also one of the income and their linkages with the rest of the Panel on Climate Change IPCC completed most efficient methods of energy generation.
These are being supplemented by its Fourth Assessment Report, which sets out social studies to explore how the Groups These facilities were operational and emitting the scientific consensus that there is now a activities can be integrated into sustainable GHGs before their acquisition by BG Group.
On very high confidence that climate change is development strategies in those countries.
acquisition, emissions were transferred into occurring and is being driven by man-made BG Group totals.
BG Group continues to support the Extractive emissions of GHGs.
In 2007, operations under BG Group control Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which emitted 9.4 million tonnes carbon dioxide The challenge for society is to meet growing is working towards greater transparency for equivalent CO e, an increase of 3.2 million 2 energy needs, whilst managing the growth revenue management within the extractive tonnes 52% over 2006.
BG Group also of, and ultimately reducing, emissions of industry.
The Group continues to comply with measures emissions on an equity-stake basis.
national regulations and policies related to GHGs.
The scale of energy demand is such It reports those emissions as a proportion of revenue disclosure.
that fossil fuels will continue to be a major the total associated with each operation that energy source in the near future.
Natural gas Employee involvement and social investment reects the extent of the Group's equity share is the lowest carbon fossil fuel, and as a result BG Group supports the involvement of in that operation, regardless of control.
Equity is well-placed to help satisfy energy demand employees in charity and community share emissions from BG Group operated and whilst also contributing to strategies to limit organisations.
The Group donates employee non-operated activities rose by 3.5 million carbon emissions.
time to organised volunteering schemes and tonnes 30% to 15.2 million tonnes CO e. 2 operates a Group-wide matched funding During 2007, the corporate HSSE management a Adjusted emissions data shows an increase scheme for employees who raise money system was strengthened further.
BG Group in emissions from operated sites of 0.5 million for charity.
continues to drive environmental performance tonnes CO e 8% from 2006 to 2007.
Equity 2 at a country level via environment management The BG Energy Challenge series of fundraising share emissions on the same basis rose by systems of an international standard.
Of BG events has now grown to include seven 1.2 million tonnes CO e 10%.
The principal 2 Group major operated assets, 77% have been countries.
These team-building activities, reasons for these like-for-like operational certied to the international environmental involving intellectual and physical challenges, increases were increased world-wide drilling management standard ISO 14001.
The Groups have now raised more than 3.7 million for activity, an increase in the size of our LNG eet Armada asset is currently developing a new charities worldwide since 1996. see page 23, and full year emissions from system that will bring all BG Group UKCS Dighton power station, acquired in In 2007, BG Group spent a total of 3.9 million upstream assets on to one certication.
October 2006. on voluntary social investment 2006 a Emissions data is adjusted to allow a like-for-like During 2007, BG Group increased generation 4.2 million.
The Group has had a broadly comparison between successive years, removing capacity through the acquisition of operating consistent discretionary social investment the effect of major acquisitions or divestments.
For these purposes, major acquisitions or divestments CCGT power stations in the US and by spend over the last three years, although are those which added or removed more than 5% 2006 saw additional expenditure on a major increasing the company interest in BG Italia of the Groups total GHG emissions in 2006 or 2007. one-off project see graph on page 40. co-generation facilities see page 26.
The US BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
