26 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Business review Employees and environment Employees We invest significantly in our As at 31 January 2007 the Company and its subsidiaries had employees and their development, 297 employees, an increase of 30% year on year.
Of these, here we detail how they are involved 58% work within Alliance Trust Savings supporting and servicing the needs of more than 44,000 customers and in our business.
Over 60% of new employees joined the financial service subsidiary businesses to support the business growth in Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Pensions, with the remainder supporting the group, including the subsidiaries.
Alliance Trust aims to be an employer of choice.
Our recruitment policy is to attract world class individuals so they bring their skills, knowledge and experience to the group to support our plans for growth.
We are also committed to retaining and developing our existing members of staff, enhancing their skills and competencies for their current roles and for future roles, promoting internally where the opportunity arises to do so.
The Company is committed to a policy of equal treatment of all employees and applicants for employment and abides by all legislation to prevent discrimination against individuals on race, sex, sexual preference, religion, disability or age.
Where employees become disabled we make all reasonable adjustments to ensure that wherever practicable they are able to continue in employment.
Disabled employees have the same training, career development and promotion opportunities as their able-bodied colleagues.
The Alliance Trust Academy The Alliance Trust Academy was launched in October 2006 to carry out all of the Companys internal training.
All of our staff have access to training and development and 55 have passed exams this year.
In particular, we support programmes of study relevant to our business, such as the Investment Administration Qualification from the Securities and Investment Institute for all administrators and the APMP qualification of the Association for Project Management.
Our training programme incorporates a leadership and management skills development programme designed to help staff meet the leadership challenges that lie ahead and develop the future leaders within our organisation.
Line managers and the leadership team participate in management development modules designed to fit the different stages of growth.
Modules include Managing Change and Innovation, Leading, Inspiring and Influencing and Developing People.
The Company aims to provide a collaborative working environment where staff can raise issues and put forward ideas within all areas of the business.
This includes regular Town Hall meetings to which all staff are invited where they have the opportunity to hear presentations, updates on performance and developments within the group and to put questions to the management team.
This year we also Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 27 launched an intranet providing information on group departments and businesses from Dundee to Hong Kong and an additional opportunity to ask questions to our Chief Executive.
The Chief Executives annual State of the Nation letter to all staff looks back over achievements in the previous year and looks forward to our strategy and the high level business plans for the forthcoming year.
This is supported by team meetings and department briefings throughout the year as well as regular all staff communications updating staff on progress and key achievements: from the names of staff passing exams to the launch of new business initiatives.
We will continue to develop new methods of sharing information across the group to meet the changing needs of the business.
Environmental matters Green Disclosures As the Company is office based there is limited scope for reduction in the use of resources.
However, we do encourage the recycling of packaging and use of energy efficient equipment.
The Company has recently decided to relocate from its current three locations around Dundee to a new office located in the city centre and has committed to engaging constructively with the Scottish Executives Energy Policy Team on the environmental, waste and resource issues connected with this project.
The greenhouse gas emissions attributable to our activities as calculated in accordance with reporting guidelines issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs amounted to 289 2006: 197 tonnes of carbon dioxide which is the equivalent of operating 25.6 2005: 17.4 three bar electric fires for a year.
The calculation is based on a combination of office heat and power and employee travel and is reflective of the employee numbers and travel activity within the Group over the year.
