Its the driving force behind our continued success Our people We have around 39,000 Great assets need great people talented and motivated people are our most precious employees and 60,000 resource.
They form the fundamental platform of our seven strategic drivers and are contractors working in more essential to our success.
than 100 operations across It is our people who discover, secure, develop and operate our assets and it is our people 25 countries, creating a who get our products to our customers.
Our people are the ones who work to find better great diversity of cultures ways to maximise the volumes we produce from our assets and to develop the technologies and experiences.
Many of we rely on to improve our efficiency and access untapped resources.
our employees are based in Australia 42 per cent, Valuing diversity Southern Africa 30 per cent With operations and projects spanning the globe, we truly value diversity of culture, gender, and South and North America thought and language, and have recruitment targets to meet these objectives.
are diverse by nature but unified in purpose.
We expect our people to behave according to our Charter and to value the way we do business.
A strong global commodities market means that great people are harder to find and employ than they once were.
Like the resources industry generally, we are facing a shortage of technical and professional people.
That means we have to work hard to ensure these people want to work with us.
Recruiting the best from around the world We run a broad and comprehensive graduate recruitment program throughout the world.
The program supports students in regions that we expect will produce our next generation of talent: countries like China, Russia and India.
Our recruits are trained across the Company in SHORTAGE OF LABOUR IS order to experience the breadth of opportunities we offer.
In many cases we train our recruits AN ONGOING ISSUE IN THE away from their home countries to give them a variety of experiences that they can then apply GLOBAL RESOURCES SECTOR.
back in their home regions, as we seek to secure, develop and run operations in those regions.
BY 2015, THE AUSTRALIAN Developing tomorrows leaders MINERALS INDUSTRY ALONE WILL The global nature of our businesses requires us to have strong and effective leaders at each NEED 70,000 MORE WORKERS.
of our operations and offices.
We need people who can not only perform their professional roles, but can effectively engage with stakeholders across the range of business issues.
We also need people who will be the leaders and senior management of our future.
The best way to attract and retain talented people is to develop them.
We put significant effort into assessment, development and succession planning to ensure our people are doing what they want to do and to ensure that theyre achieving their goals.
Our compensation packages are globally competitive and strongly tied to performance, both short and long term.
We use performance enhancement processes that ensure clear agreement about performance goals.
Performance assessment takes into account not only job performance, but also how behaviours and values align with our Charter.
Our people, wherever they might be, are our voice and our identity they are our future.
