Review People sustaining and developing superior performance Mark Farrow Human Resources Director Amlins success is driven by our ability to attract, how they can be applied meaningfully on a day-todevelop, motivate and retain talented staff.
We day basis, in their own jobs.
Half-day workshops are strongly believe that our intellectual property and also run quarterly for new employees.
competitive advantage resides in our employees and that there is a strong correlation between Moving forward, future employee opinion surveys effective people practices and delivery of will incorporate a section on core values to measure shareholder value.
Core values have also been incorporated into our induction programme, Our ambition is to be the place to work.
In the performance and development review process managing our human capital, our objective is to PDR and the Group Business Ethics policy.
create a strong alignment between the Groups vision and goals, and employee interests.
We aim Development of first class to sustain and where necessary raise the employment practices performance of the business by developing staff to their full potential, by motivating staff appropriately Employee engagement and by planning ahead so that we are capable of One of the major initiatives in 2007 was to feedback properly addressing succession issues.
the results of the MORI employee survey carried out Core values communicated and in 2006 and, from discussions with staff in local embedded across the Group.
Our key objectives remain: focus groups, to identify the key actions, that Group and local actions Creation of a working environment where employees moving forward, would make the most significant are well motivated and have a strong belief in the improvement or impact across the organisation.
identified in response to 2006 Group, its strategy and its core values.
MORI employee survey and The development of loyalty between the The survey collected staff views in a number of implementation commenced.
areas and in many cases the Amlin result scored Continual improvement in: within the MORI top 10 norm.
For overall job Leadership programme the effective management of people: satisfaction Amlin scored the highest score 81% of delivered to identify and the skills and competency of staff at all any organisation surveyed by MORI in the previous levels and across all disciplines: and five years.
However, a number of areas for develop current and the retention and growth of key skills improvement were identified including: future leaders.
which are critical to the business.
A more consistent calculation of annual bonus Well constructed and fair reward systems which payments for all employees across the Group.
incentivise superior performance and align More effective and earlier management of poor employee and shareholder interests.
The development and use of first class Improved communication, specifically across employment practices throughout the Group.
the Group as opposed to within individual business units.
Embedding core values in the business Better career development opportunities and One of the key features of the Amlin team is that our more recognition of personal development.
achievements are underpinned by an appropriate culture and set of core values.
During 2006, the In response, the EMG has agreed a number of key Executive Management Group EMG finalised work actions which are in the process of being to identify the underlying values that were believed implemented.
For example, the structure of the to contribute to sustaining the success of the Group Bonus Scheme was reviewed during the business, and then, in 2007, put a programme in year and the completion rate for performance place to communicate and embed these across development reviews was improved.
other changes to address the issues raised by staff have been approved and will be implemented with Throughout the year, employees attended effect from 2008. presentations or workshops to help communicate and embed Amlins core values across the In addition to the employee opinion survey, the business.
These gave staff the opportunity to Amlin Consultation Forum ACF meets on a Key Performance understand the values that have been developed quarterly basis and provides a valuable opportunity Indicators and also provided a forum to discuss and determine for staff to feed back views to management.
Staff turnover below 15% Amlins core values for sixth consecutive year Integrity We are fair and honest and we deliver on our commitments.
Senior underwriter turnover Superior performance We seek to excel in both the levels of service and the results we achieve.
at 8.3%: higher than Leadership We take a clear and considered view of the future.
We communicate previous five years but our objectives and empower our team to achieve them.
within target Professional excellence We are professional in all we do, continually developing our skills An average 22 years and expertise.
industry experience per Teamwork We work together to deliver excellent performance, taking responsibility, senior underwriters.
holding ourselves accountable and respecting the contribution of others.
We communicate effectively and give each other the space to do the job.
Training expenditure Focus on sustainability We take a measured approach in our business strategy and in our represents 2.1% of acceptance and management of risk to secure the long term viability salary costs of the business.
26 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review Professional qualifications Personal development Management development Information technology Business technical Employee turnover and experience at 31 December 2007 The ACF represents all employees and encourages active participation in the affairs of the Group by Senior Other Underwriting Claims Claims Operational Admin & Total Class underwriters underwriters support staff support Operational support finance Average providing a forum where new ideas, policy changes Number of and business matters can be discussed freely and employees 48 75 167 138 37 47 18 143 673 proactively.
The ACF was established in 2004 and Turnover 10.4% 13.0% 23.8% 12.3% 12.8% 20.5% 17.7% 17.6% 16.9% during the last three years has been actively Voluntary turnover 8.3% 13.0% 20.0% 9.4% 12.8% 18.0% 11.8% 15.2% 14.4% involved in discussions on a wide range of topics Mean age affecting staff.
of employees 44.7 39.7 34.3 39.9 41.2 38.4 38.2 37.7 39.2 Mean service Employee reward and well being of employees 12.5 5.9 5.6 7.7 6.4 4.8 5.5 5.3 6.7 The Group has also carried out a review of its core Source: Amlin and flexible benefits in 2007 to ensure that our current arrangements remain competitive and in Employee appointments and recruitment One of our principal objectives is to maintain voluntary line with market practice.
The review confirmed In the UK, a number of key internal appointments turnover, excluding retirements, of our senior that the levels of benefit provided by the Group were made, confirming our commitment to develop underwriters below 10% per annum and our overall are still competitive and therefore, save for some and promote from existing staff.
These included the employee turnover below 15%.
On this basis during market adjustments on car allowances, no appointments of Managing Director for the London 2007 turnover of senior underwriters was 8.3% with changes were required.
Market Service Companies, Group Operations overall staff turnover being 14.4%.
Director and Group Financial Controller.
During the Core staff benefits year we also made a number of key external Performance & development appointments which provides the opportunity to We place significant emphasis on the staff Pension recruit fresh talent and bring outside experience into committing and aligning their long-term career Death in service benefits the organisation.
These included the Head of Group development to the ambitions of the Group.
Permanent health insurance Finance, Group General Counsel, We take the development of our staff seriously Private medical insurance Head of Internal Audit, the Managing Director and work hard to help staff realise their full potential.
Personal accident of Amlin Singapore Pte Ltd and a number of Car allowance underwriters in both London and Bermuda.
The Amlin Academy provides the foundation for Season ticket loan training and development initiatives across the Annual leave In addition, we have been working in partnership Group.
The Academys objective is to provide a Sabbaticals with two universities, the London School of core curriculum of training for employees and to Employee assistance programme Economics LSE and University College London encourage professional and personal development Flexible options UCL to ensure that we continue to attract high at every level throughout the organisation.
calibre graduate entrants to the Group.
LSE and The Group made a further grant under the Capital UCL were selected as preferred universities as both The Academy supports regulatory and compliance Builder Long Term Incentive Plan to approximately achieve top 10 rankings in degree subjects which requirements and also provides a broad range of 50 senior underwriters in 2007.
The plan is closely match the requirements of the business, initiatives including technical training and designed to retain and reward the long term specifically mathematics, geography, economics, management and personal development.
Whether commitment of key underwriters by giving them business studies and geology.
This campaign has the need is a technical requirement to help increase the opportunity to build personal capital over a involved attending careers fairs and hosting skills an individuals specialist know-how or a sustained period of success, as they might have if workshops on insurance risk management at developmental requirement to facilitate and support they owned equity in a small underwriting business.
Our dedicated Amlin4graduates behavioural change, the most appropriate solution This has proved to be an effective reward microsite has also attracted considerable interest can be sourced via the Academy.
arrangement to drive superior performance and and we have joined the LSE patron scheme to retain key staff with critical business skills.
increase our access to LSE students through Total expenditure and days incurred publications and advertisements.
on training in 2007 A review of reward arrangements relating to Amlin Bermuda Ltd ABL was carried out during the year Employee retention 2006 expenditure 2006 days to ensure that remuneration levels in ABL were Amlin employed a total of 673 people at 31 2007 expenditure 2007 days competitive against the local market.
The same December 2007 2006: 620 and the number remuneration policy has been adopted by the ABL of new staff joining the Group during 2007 was Board in Bermuda as in all other parts of the Group, 158 2006: 93.
Of the increase in headcount, 31 350 namely to have regard to market median salaries, people came with the acquisition of Allied Cedar.
300 but with the potential for top quartile remuneration if Underwriting expertise and a consistent approach 20 250 15 top quartile performance is achieved.
to underwriting risk management and control is 10 200 critical to the success of Amlin, making the retention 5 0 In addition to the above, as far as possible we of skilled and experienced underwriters a business 150 construct our reward arrangements in Bermuda to priority.
Our senior underwriters have on average 22 100 be consistent with our Group arrangements, unless years experience in the insurance industry and an 50 legislation or local market practice dictate otherwise.
average of 12.5 years service with the Amlin Group.
0 Total employees The review confirmed good overall alignment with Group practices and with the local market generally, At 31 At 31 although some enhancements to bonus levels and December December to additional voluntary pension contributions were 2007 2006 Type of training London market business 241 239 required and have now been implemented.
The Source: Amlin UK Commercial business 248 221 improvements in remuneration levels in Bermuda Amlin Bermuda 22 14 will further consolidate ABLs position as an employer Amlin Singapore 2 of choice.
ABL received the Employees Choice Group functions 160 146 Award for 2007, awarded to the organisation which Total 673 620 is nominated by its own employees for practicing equal opportunities, i. e. hiring and promoting fairly, Source: Amlin training, mentoring and investing in Bermudians and for making outstanding efforts to promote the upward mobility of black Bermudians.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 27 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 thousands Days Review People Leadership and management development system has been in use for a number of years and covering all job functions within the departments.
The major development in 2007 was the launch of further developments have been introduced this This is a showcase piece of work and will be used Compass, a leadership and talent development year to improve functionality and performance.
as a template for developing other competency programme designed to meet the needs of the Group frameworks across the business including Internal succession plan.
This is to support delivery of our The 2006 employee opinion survey conducted by Audit and Wordings.
A technical competency vision and also underlines our commitment to our Ipsos MORI identified some dissatisfaction amongst framework for underwriters has also been under core values of Leadership and Focus on Sustainability.
staff with the management of poor performance by development and will be completed in early 2008.
Compass has been designed in conjunction with some managers.
From the feedback sessions held leading organisations in the field of leadership and with focus groups across the business, there was a Professional partnerships talent development, specifically to ensure that we view that some managers were reluctant to tackle With the increased emphasis on technical develop our current and future leaders and that we difficult conversations and address performance competence and ethical awareness, the Chartered identify and prepare the right people for the opportunities issues until they had escalated to the extent that Institute of Management Accountants CIMA has and challenges that lie ahead.
It represents Amlins action was unavoidable.
developed a continuous professional development unwavering commitment to develop and invest in scheme called CIMA Development.
This is our most talented people which is fundamental to As a result, the Grasping the Nettle programme designed to encourage employers to continue to our long-term future.
was designed and introduced across Amlin for all support their members in maintaining and supervisors and line managers to attend.
This is a developing their professional competence through The initial stage for each individual is a 24 hour off one-day bespoke interactive workshop, facilitated relevant, planned and continuous development.
site assessment essentially a diagnostic phase to by external training provider Leornian, which covers Amlin has recently been awarded the Approved identify future potential and to provide a basis for both the legal implications of poor performance Employer status by CIMA.
The centres have been management as well as equipping managers with designed and run by a firm of leading business the necessary skills to handle difficult and sensitive In addition, Amlin has also been awarded Approved psychologists, Kiddy & Partners, who specialise in issues.
The programme was launched in Autumn Employer status by the Association of Certified assessment and talent management and have over 2007 and will continue to be rolled out during 2008.
Chartered Accountants ACCA for both 30 years experience of working with top professional development and trainee organisations.
Individual development plans are To further support line managers, Managing development.
Among the key benefits of Approved then agreed for each delegate to address identified Performance under Pressure workshops were Employer status is exemption of Amlin Finance development needs, based on the detailed also launched during the year.
These half-day professionals from providing continuous feedback.
For most participants this will include workshops are facilitated by ICAS, who also provide professional development returns, since our own attending a core leadership development our 24 hour Employee Assistance Programme combination of PDR, objective setting and in-house programme delivered by ASK Europe, who provide EAP, and aim to equip managers with the training has been assessed as of sufficiently high leadership programmes for some of the worlds necessary tools to recognise and deal with stress quality to render this unnecessary.
Within the first year over half of all attended the assessment centre during the year.
identified participants have attended the workshop.
The Association of Chartered Insurance Institute continues to be the most popular professional In conjunction with the above initiative, the Group Another key initiative during 2007 was the examination at Amlin and during this year 87 staff succession plan has been reviewed and updated development of competency frameworks for have commenced or continued studying for at least this year.
The primary objective is to improve Finance staff which incorporates both a set of one CII Exam and four staff have become fully business continuity and performance by promoting bespoke behavioural competencies and a ACII qualified.
a more planned and strategic approach to the comprehensive technical know-how matrix resourcing and development of key staff.
Progress against operational objectives We believe that succession planning is a 2007 priority Achievement combination of talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, career management and Complete rollout of Amlins core values Core value briefings held with staff.
Values embedded successful personal development.
These are not across the Group.
Reviewing and updating into performance development review system, separate, unconnected processes.
The latest HR processes to help embed values.
induction programme and Group Business review confirms that we have immediate or potential Ethics policy.
successors for the vast majority of the key roles across the Group.
Design and implement leadership Compass leadership development programme development programme to support the rolled out.
Management development is one of the core Group succession plan.
offerings provided by the Academy and we run two Further development of core-curricula Competency framework implemented for flagship programmes in partnership with external matrices, to include know-how capability Finance.
Underlying framework developed for providers.
The Roffey Park programme, which and competency requirements.
implementation in 2008. focuses on improving management skills, ran its seventh cohort this year and over 90 individuals Draw up action plans for further Group and local actions identified and from across the business have now attended since improvement in our employment practices implementation commenced.
the programme was first introduced in July 2003. arising from the 2006 MORI survey.
A further 17 staff attended the Coverdale Review and benchmark the core and flexible Completed.
Identified amendments to be programme this year, which focuses on working benefits package.
implemented in 2008. effectively with others to generate a more common approach to delivering against objectives, 2008 priorities particularly across functional boundaries.
Continue roll out of Compass leadership programme and build tailored development Performance management programmes for key potential successors.
The PDR process remains the primary framework Complete competency frameworks for underwriting, wordings, Internal Audit, Information Services for managing and developing staff.
A structured but and Business Projects Group.
flexible framework enables managers to provide Design and procure training and development to support relevant competencies within these clarity around business objectives, to assess frameworks.
individual competency and to identify career and Design and implement team leader and entry level development programmes.
An on-line PDR Implement Group-wide employment law awareness training for line managers.
28 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review Unforgiving Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 29
