Accountability Corporate responsibility report Overview The good conduct of employees in their Amlin places a high emphasis on In this report, we summarise our Corporate management of business relationships and with integrity, professionalism and the Responsibility activity in relation to employees, colleagues is critical to creating pride in the clients, the Lloyds market, Bermuda, the Company and to our aspiration to be a socially sustainability of our business.
environment, charities and our communities.
We also believe that initiatives creating a better work life balance are Shareholder relations are covered in the earlier directly beneficial to the Group by improving We aim to apply these values to Accounting to shareholders part of this efficiency and morale.
Amlins core corporate our relationships internally with Accountability section.
We remain a member of values, on page 26, are an important part of the employees and externally with FTSE4Good Index and we continue to utilise the Code of Conduct available on our website to Corporate Responsibility Exchange, a single which all employees are expected to adhere.
third parties including clients and platform from which subscriber investors, analysts, brokers, and within the Lloyds media and peers may source relevant data Client and broker relationships and Bermudian insurance reporting on corporate responsibility and The value of the Groups brands is enhanced by the governance.
extent to which Amlin is perceived as a high integrity markets and other communities organisation.
It is therefore an important business of relevance to Amlin.
Employees need, as well as desirable in itself, for Amlin to act Amlins vision includes being recognised as the with the highest possible integrity in dealing with place to work in our sector, with staff that brokers and clients.
This goes with aiming for high understand our strategy and their role in reaching levels of service, as poor service fails clients.
An important element in Commentary on our client relations is provided in achieving this is being a responsible employer, the Review starting on page 18. operating first class employment practices and engaging with employees.
Activities aimed at In 2007, Amlin has: meeting and advancing our position in relation to Continued to research broker and client these aims is included in the People section of the relationships with a view to improving our Review starting on page 26. understanding of their expectations of us.
In summary, during 2007 Amlin has: Led and been engaged in a number of initiatives, Communicated the Amlin Core Values to some involving the wider Lloyds market, aimed staff using interactive workshops and embedded at removing inefficient market processes and these into our policies and performance reviews.
Taken steps to address issues raised by The Group operates a client complaints policy with the 2006 Ipsos MORI employee survey.
procedures for reporting, investigating and These included: reviewing the Group Bonus responding to complaints.
Complaints are logged Scheme, so initiating a leadership programme and centrally, their resolution is monitored and their providing new training in managing poor performance.
nature and frequency is reported to operating company boards.
Of 127 complaints received in Implemented a Share Incentive Plan, in 2007 2007 or brought forward 2006: 211, 40% were for all employees employed since the middle of the settled in four weeks or less and a further 20% in previous year.
97% of such eligible employees received four to eight weeks.
16 complaints were a stake in the Companys equity through the Plan.
outstanding at the year end 2006: 33.
Agreed the further enhancement of staff The Lloyds market benefits designed to improve employees quality Amlin is one of the largest participants in the Lloyds of life, by giving more choices for 2008 on matters market and 77% of Amlins 2007 net earned such as medical care, adding to the existing menu premium was written through Lloyds.
As such, of child care vouchers, dental care, subsidised gym Amlin seeks to contribute positively to all aspects membership etc.
of the Lloyds community, including the sound governance and operation of the market so that it Seen a record number of staff taking remains attractive to brokers and clients for the sabbatical leave, rewarding those with service placement of their risks.
of more than ten years with an opportunity for more extended family time, travel or other lifeIn 2007: enhancing activities.
During 2007, 22 staff 21 Representatives of Amlin participated on the per cent of those eligible and including people Lloyds Council, Lloyds Investment Committee, from all role levels in the Company took sabbaticals.
Lloyds Market Claims Group, and on the board of the Lloyds Market Association and on many of Increased remote working access, such that its committees, including its Marine, Motor, 40% of employees worldwide now have this capability.
Aviation, Finance and Risk committees.
Amlins Operations Director also completed a Continued the good start by Amlin Bermuda secondment to Lloyds during the year.
In the Ltd ABL in terms of employee diversity and wider London market, representatives also serve student support, recruiting a high proportion on the Council of the Insurance Institute of of Bermudian staff.
Such employment practices London and the British Insurance Law Association.
have resulted in the award to ABL of an Excellence in Equality of Opportunity Award by the Commission Amlin has become part of the Lloyds for Unity and Racial Equality in Bermuda.
community in Singapore by opening an office there to utilise the Lloyds Asia platform and is participating in reviewing risks from Lloyds China 106 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Accountability Reinsurance Co Ltd.
Such initiatives are driven and resource management which we have put in yacht, Lutine.
Amlin also supports Little Havens, an by commercial considerations but, where mutually place in recent years in our various sites and keep Essex-based childrens hospice close to Chelmsford.
beneficial, strengthen Lloyds as well as Amlin.
abreast of new initiatives in this area.
Staff there raised an additional 13,525 of funds in 2007, which will fund a hospice nurse for 31 weeks.
Amlin professionals continue to work with the As tenants in several of our offices, we do not have Lloyds market and its associations to drive primary control over all energy purchasing and waste Looking ahead to 2008 in the UK, we have reviewed forward market reform technologies, both as management decisions.
However, we fully support our strategy for charity and community engagement early adopters and by encouraging all our peers the initiatives taken by Aviva, our St. Helens landlords.
with the aim of aligning our efforts more closely with and broker counterparties to use them.
Amlin has won a Gold Award every year since 1998 the interests of our clients as well as with the future under the City of London Clean City Award in development of our employees.
It will be a major Amlin also encourages and supports Lloyds in its recognition of our waste management practices.
focus of the new Charities and Communities Panel own community and corporate responsibility in 2008 to start this process.
activities, including making an annual donation to During 2007, we initiated a regular feature in Amlin the Lloyds Community Programme.
Update, our staff newsletter, which is designed to raise employee awareness of the facts and Environment implications of climate change.
We also suggest As a financial services business employing 673 people ways in which they might reduce energy consumption at the year end, mainly in the UK, Amlins direct and increase recycling, both as individuals and as environmental impact is relatively low.
Global climate employees of a responsible company.
change, however, is expected to have a major impact on the insurance industry and on its evaluation of Charity and community insurance risks, particularly wind, flood and fire risks.
Amlin aims to play a positive role in the community through charitable donations and encouraging Climate change employees to engage with local community partners.
Climate change affects an estimated 35% to 40% of The Company promotes payroll giving and provides global insured risks and is thus a significant external matched funding for eligible staff initiatives.
Young people from Hackney Quest enjoying risk to the business.
As an underwriter of property the Lloyds yacht Lutine, hosted by Amlin and catastrophe risk, Amlin has a keen interest in In addition to engagement with Lloyds and the insurance understanding the effects of climate change and community in Bermuda, we define our communities Bermuda ensuring that changes to our risk profile arising from as those in the neighbourhoods of our offices, particularly Philanthropy is an important part of corporate life in climate change are factored into our risk management, the City of London and its nearby inner London Bermuda and ABL staff are actively involved in structuring and pricing of products.
Amlin Boroughs many of which contain significant areas of community and charitable work there.
During 2007 subscribes to a number of risk modelling agencies deprivation, central Essex where a large number of it formalised a local charities committee which agreed which are evaluating the impact of climate risk.
staff work at our office in Chelmsford and Bermuda.
corporate donations totalling US$42,167 2006: Whilst uncertainty over climatic conditions creates US$15,100, principally to Bermudian educational, insurance opportunities, as a catastrophe insurer Our charitable donation and community activities health and family welfare, and arts organisations.
we have a vested interest in ensuring that such risks are becoming increasingly closely related.
During This included support for the Bermuda Foundation do not become uninsurable.
Allied to our thorough 2007 the Boards agreed UK charities budget was for Insurance Studies, which assists Bermudian analysis of such risks, it is therefore in our interest overseen by a Charities Committee with members students through scholarships, mentoring, career that international action to contain climate change, drawn from across the Group.
Formal reporting of guidance and internship programmes to achieve a in which we believe business should play a full part, the Groups 2007 charitable expenditure, including career in insurance.
It is expected that these activities is successful.
In the meantime, we are able to help that of ABL, is contained in the Directors report will further develop in 2008.
Amlin Bermuda has insureds in vulnerable parts of the world to cope starting on page 40.
For 2008 the Board has set a also joined the Centre for Philanthropy, an with its consequences by continuing to offer cover, higher UK budget encompassing all expenditure organisation that aims to bring corporate donors, at a commercial price, that some insurers avoid.
directly related to community and corporate volunteers and local charities together.
responsibility matters which will be managed by a new In October 2007, Amlin therefore became a Charities and Communities Panel under the guidance 30% of ABLs staff are involved in voluntary and signatory to the Climatewise principles, an initiative of a Corporate Responsibility Advisory Group.
ABLs charitable fund raising organisations, including a produced through consultation between the charitable and community activities will continue to school mentoring charity, the Foster Parents Association of British Insurers, The Prince of Waless be developed under the direction of the ABL board.
Association, helping with the End to End charity Business & the Environment Programme, Lloyds walk, and a number of cultural and sporting and other insurance market participants.
This The focus of charitable support in 2007 continued organisations.
ABL and its staff regard such represents an industry-wide commitment to to be on children and health in London and other areas community involvement as an important monitor and take appropriate action on climate local to our offices, as these are relevant both to our responsibility of any business taking advantage of change.
In order to explore fully the risks and employees and our future.
Macmillan Cancer Support the favourable local conditions for their operations.
opportunities presented by climate change, and to remains Amlins primary charity partner.
We agreed fulfil our the commitment made, we have formed a in 2007 to fund a Neuro Oncology Clinical Nurse new Climate Change Panel composed of senior Specialist at St Bartholomews Hospital for an initial underwriters from across our business and chaired two year term.
Additional funds have been raised for by the Chief Risk Officer.
More details of the other charities, including but not limited to our chosen governance changes affecting corporate charities, by staff participation in sponsored events.
responsibility are included in the Board Corporate Governance statement starting on page 98.
During 2007 we have continued staff engagement with our community partners, ChildLine and Managing Amlins direct impact Hackney Quest.
Our donations to ChildLine paid for Amlin aims to manage the environmental impact of the recruitment and training of six volunteer its activities, including by focussing on such areas counsellors and those to Hackney Quest funded as internal processes, responsible consumption, teaching resources, educational trips and computer re-cycling, energy use and the encouragement of software and PC support.
Amlin staff joined these our suppliers and clients to act responsibly young people on excursions to Lords cricket Carol Redahan, Financial Controller of ABL, regarding environmental impact and risks.
We ground and staff from our yacht insurance business mentors 9-year old Zaria Hill as part of the continue to monitor initiatives for energy efficiency hosted another successful sailing day on the Lloyds YouthNet program, helping her with homework and reading at school and at home.
