Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Corporate The Committee reviewed each business units performance Social Responsibility Committee and the work it has and progress during the year.
During the Boards visit to undertaken during the year.
the Groups North American operations in September 2007, the Committee held a meeting with the senior The purpose of the Committee is to provide guidance managers responsible for CSR in the Groups businesses and direction to the Groups corporate social responsibility in the United States, while the Chairman of the CSR programme, review the risks and opportunities Committee visited the general insurance business in relating to the seven individual elements in the programme Canada.
The meetings allowed the Committee to gain namely: standards of business conduct, environment, a deeper understanding of the relevant local issues and human rights and diversity, community, customers, assess how CSR was being embedded in the business.
suppliers and employees and to monitor progress.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be Together with the Board, the Committee participated in found on the Companys website, www.
com, a knowledge learning session on climate change in April and are available from the Group Company Secretary.
2007 addressed by a leading climate change scientist.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups carbon offset The following directors served on the Committee during projects as part of Managements commitment to become the year: carbon neutral on a global basis.
Period In line with the Combined Code requirement the Member From To Wim Dik Chairman 14 January 2006 To date Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all Guillermo fide la Dehesa 14 January 2006 To date its committees during the year, including the Corporate Richard Harvey 14 January 2006 11 July 2007 Social Responsibility Committee.
Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date This report was reviewed and approved by the Board Carole Piwnica 14 January 2006 To date on 27 February 2008.
Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date 92 Wim Dik The Committee met on four occasions in 2007 and the Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Governance members attendance record is set out in the Corporate governance report above.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
During the year the Committee met to consider the conclusions of the Groups CSR Annual Conference that took place in June 2007, and which was addressed by both the Chairman of the Committee and a non-executive director committee member.
The Committee reviewed and approved the content and scope of the Companys 2007 CSR Report, monitored the management of the CSR risks affecting the Group and helped establish a process by which CSR related targets and objectives within the Groups individual businesses are set, monitored and embedded in the businesses.
New policies on CSR and Environment were established as a result of this process.
Members of the Committee are interviewed as part of the external assurance process of the CSR programme and the subsequent management report is reviewed by the Committee to assist the strengthening and future direction of the programme going forward.
