Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Employees and responsibility Employees and responsibility Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Dear Shareholder, Talking Talent Manage talent to maximise productivity and fulfilment 2007 has been a year of great progress of objectives for Aviva and the individual.
in Avivas employee and responsibility agenda in support of our one Aviva, twice the value vision.
Progress included Leading People the creation of a regional structure for Recruit and develop leaders who excite their people to 65 Aviva, international moves of senior exceptional performance, bringing to life the relationship between engaged employees and satisfied customers.
leaders, the effective implementation of Business review our people strategy and improved visibility for corporate social responsibility CSR.
Experiencing Aviva All these activities have strengthened Build Aviva as a strong employment brand by delivering Aviva and provide an excellent foundation a great employee experience.
We have improved our talent Embedding our CSR vision management processes, the way we lead Act responsibly for the long term in how we do our people, and are building Aviva as an business, to help meet our ambition of being the engaging place to work.
This was supported worlds most trusted savings, investment and insurance by a 70% 2006: 66% participation rate in provider.
Managing and steering performance on the global employee survey, which showed business ethics, values, environment and diversity is central in our interactions with customers, our people, strong and improving results, and in which community and suppliers.
70% of participants agreed that Aviva is a great place to work.
We report our progress on CSR fully in a separate CSR Our CSR plans are key to our business report, which is available online at www.
strategy and we made further progress in 2007.
Key initiatives included our carbon offsetting and carbon reduction programme, building employee awareness and engagement in all aspects of CSR, including volunteering.
This review is an update on our progress and achievements to date.
It represents a level of performance of which we can be proud, and one on which we can build further to meet our plans to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.
John Ainley Group human resources director Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Employees and responsibility continued Employees and responsibility People Avivas ambition is to be the worlds most trusted savings, We employ some 57,000 people worldwide.
In 2007 we investment and insurance provider and we will achieve this put in place a new regionalised structure comprised of the in part by exciting our people to exceptional performance.
UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
Together with This, then, is our goal as we deliver on our employee and our group centre function, the strategy to create a lean, responsibility agenda and strive to meet the expectations activist group centre and empowered regional teams is of our stakeholders: now operational, encouraging growth, the sharing of best practices and the achievement of regional business Our shareholders, who wish to receive a return objectives and synergies.
on their investment, but also to be assured that the 66 To help set up the new structure, there were a company is behaving responsibly in how it operates number of moves amongst our senior people in 2007 Business Our customers, who rightly expect Aviva to treat creating a better balance of talent across the group.
review them fairly and to be open and honest in the In all circumstances where we undertake major structural products and services we offer them change we seek to minimise the number of compulsory redundancies through voluntary turnover and Our employees, whose engagement and redeployment.
Where unavoidable redundancies commitment to delivering a great service to our take place we provide support to affected employees customers is essential through outplacement services and job search assistance.
The communities in which we operate, and the Further details are provided on aviva.
suppliers and organisations with which we work, In 2007, we conducted extensive research through who want Aviva to be a responsible employer and focus groups into our employees experiences of working partner, thinking about the way we do business and for Aviva to help us understand what Aviva meant to acting responsibly to the benefit of all them as an employer.
The findings from this exercise are now being worked into an employment brand strategy, enabling us to attract and retain talent in highly competitive Governance markets.
We are also providing business units with practical Governance of our people and CSR agenda operates tools to bring the employment brand to life locally.
at Board level through regular updates and reviews The quality of people leadership will be critical and, in particular, through the activity of the Board in delivering on our plans.
In 2007 we developed a Committees on CSR and Remuneration.
The reports leadership feedback tool which we will roll out across of both these committees can be found on pages 92 the group in 2008 and 2009.
The tool is for use by and 93 respectively.
anyone with line management responsibility, recognising John Ainley, group human resources director, the importance of the line management relationship is responsible for implementing the employee and in employee engagement, and has been successfully responsibility strategy and is supported by strong teams piloted in 2007. at the group, regional and business unit level who work together to deliver our objectives.
Apart from regular monthly meetings and global task forces, annual global conferences are organised for this community to network, exchange best practices, review progress and agree on Talent management the collective agenda for the organisation.
In 2007, substantial work was undertaken to identify the risks in implementing the CSR, environment and people policy.
In alignment with the group risk management process, we have established means to identify risks and mitigating actions through a robust set of metrics.
In 2008 we will continue to embed these new policies as well as strengthening the risk assessment process.
Managing our employee talent is fundamental to the success of Aviva.
Our Talking Talent process was piloted amongst the groups senior managers in 2007 and will be rolled out globally across Aviva in 2008 and 2009.
Talking Talent is underpinned by a shared belief that all of our people have talent that can be harnessed to the benefit of our customers.
It is therefore in our interest that we understand those talents using a consistent framework and then deploy our employees in the right jobs at the right time.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 During the course of 2007, we conducted a major 70% consider Aviva redesign of the programmes offered through the Aviva Leadership Academy which continues to support our a great place to work leadership work.
Working with a range of the worlds Employee survey 2007 foremost institutions in the field of leadership development, the programmes now provide a unique Improvement against 2006 survey opportunity for Aviva managers to gain deeper self-insight Base points and awareness of the impact of their leadership.
It strongly Communication 7 supports the concept of One Aviva by encouraging an international network of colleagues to learn from Empowerment and innovation 6 67 each other while gaining insights and fresh perspectives Talent management 5 from the outside world.
Business Values 4 We measure our success in achieving our people review strategy in part through our global climate survey, Engagement 4 which is open to our workforce worldwide.
The survey Diversity index 4 was completed by over 42,000 employees in 2007 Leadership 4 and is a key performance management, governance Customer focus 2 and communication tool.
Findings from this survey are presented to local executive teams and the Board.
Efficiency and effectiveness 2 Our European Consultative Forum and employee In a continued effort to create a forum in the UK Your Forum provide an opportunity strong annual feedback mechanism for regular sharing of information and dialogue at a for employees, we carried out our more informal level with representatives of the wider global employee climate survey for employee population.
We had We also participate in external surveys and a strong overall participation rate benchmark studies which allow us to compare ourselves of 70% 2006: 66% with four with best practice and to learn from what others do.
business units achieving a In 2007 Aviva in the UK was included in The Times 100% participation.
The results Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work list showed improvement on all for the second consecutive year, while our businesses survey categories and improved in Ireland, Australia and India were once again listed performance against our external in national Great Places to Work surveys.
benchmark of performance in global financial services companies.
Diversity Our senior management pay is Being a global organisation spread across 27 countries, linked to employee survey results multiple time zones and cultures brings challenges.
through clear targets on leadership This is well understood and addressed through our and engagement.
We also pay diversity programme which embodies the key principles special attention to action-planning of respect, valuing differences and inclusion.
using the results: the businesses, To embed our diversity vision we created a regions and group draw up plans Respect Diversity Toolkit which is an online learning to address employee issues and and knowledge resource.
It includes training materials, to build on our existing strengths.
interactive games, presentations, DVDs, and best practice Progress on these plans is then and benchmarking information.
Its success was recently shared with employees before recognised internally, with Norwich Union making its the next survey cycle.
content available to 30,000 employees, and externally, with a City launch in London.
This toolkit approach has been replicated this year in other work streams for HR and CSR since it is an excellent platform from which to cascade and share knowledge across the group.
Our Respect Diversity initiative and toolkit have also been recognised as best practice by the Equal Opportunities Commission in the UK.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Employees and responsibility continued The diversity agenda has been strengthened by employee UN Global Innovation networks.
The Global Senior Womens Network event in Madrid was well attended by 50 women in senior Award for diversity management from across the group.
This network resulted in the creation of local networks in London and Norwich with over 200 members involved.
Since its launch our gay, lesbian and bisexual network, Pride Aviva, has increased its membership to 150 in the UK.
Pride Aviva was also instrumental in securing Avivas sponsorship and financial support for the first gay and lesbian youth conference 68 in the UK to be organised by Stonewall.
Aviva France has also demonstrated its commitment to combating Business review discrimination at work by adding its signature to a new diversity charter.
Aviva was recognised for its Business ethics and values international diversity programmes at the World Diversity Leadership We keep standards of business conduct at the front of Summit, hosted by the United our minds in our day-to-day work and do this in part by Nations Global Compact in continuing to encourage our employees to live the Aviva May 2007.
The judging panel values of integrity, performance, progressiveness and of World Diversity Leadership teamwork.
Programmes around the world continue to Council, a peer group of corporate reinforce these values.
The value ambassador programme diversity experts, selected Aviva is one which recognises employees and teams whose for its innovative approach in actions exemplify the Aviva values.
Some countries also embedding diversity within the include induction on values for new joiners and refresh company.
Its Think Again campaign the key principles in people processes and management and Respect Diversity toolkit was training.
All efforts are monitored through the employee noted in this award.
survey which captures feedback on whether managers and employees are living the Aviva values.
Integrity Integrity is behaving in a way consistent with professional and ethical standards.
It is being open, honest and keeping commitments, taking personal responsibility for what we say and do.
It is about earning trust and respect through honesty and fairness.
Performance Our CSR policy ensures all employees are aware of our commitment to responsible business.
The policy Being performance-driven is having and achieving continues to tackle the challenge posed by financial crime, clear goals through everyone working towards the demonstrating the importance of transparent and honest goals in an effective manner.
In addition, each business unit is required to provide assurance every six months that Progressiveness they have complied with our business ethics principles.
Being progressive is having a vision of the future, encouraging innovation and improvement, and Community championing continuous learning.
It is about leading the industry by listening and responding to customers We recognise the responsibility we have to the and keeping ahead of the competition.
communities in which we operate and have taken steps in 2007 to make our community efforts stronger and Teamwork more effective.
Teamwork is the lifeblood of Aviva.
It means commitment We have developed a new global community to a common vision and objectives, depending on investment strategy which is aligned to our One Aviva, one another, pulling together and sharing knowledge twice the value vision.
The global strategy will help and learning.
It is creating a sense of community and us to channel financial and organisational support to belonging in how we operate as a business.
It means areas in which we have real expertise to offer.
The main taking pride in Avivas achievements.
areas of focus will be financial education and literacy and coping with life trauma.
These two areas lie at the heart of what we do as an organisation and we believe we will be credible partners for other organisations and initiatives in these areas.
Stonewall is a campaigning organisation in the UK that works with the government, companies and communities for equality and justice for lesbians, gaymen and bisexuals.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 During 2007 we donated 6.8 million to charitable and Environment community activities worldwide, an 8% increase over Our focus on environment intensified in 2007 with 2006 2006: 6.3 million.
progress being made on three strategic areas to combat Aviva was one of the first companies to sign up to climate change: carbon reduction, carbon offsetting the Oxfam 365 Alliance in 2006.
Our funding ensures and enhanced employee education and engagement.
that Oxfam can maintain a state of constant preparedness, Businesses continued to work on reduction targets enabling them to respond immediately to emergencies for CO emissions, electricity, water and waste.
Aviva was 2 wherever they occur in the world.
This includes keeping the first insurer to offset emissions on a global basis and the UKs biggest emergencies warehouse full of supplies.
The projects chosen for offsetting During 2007, Oxfam responded to more than 30 69 are in countries where we operate and in Africa.
emergencies worldwide, including hurricanes in Mexico, They are a good balance of commercial and social projects, Central America and the Caribbean and severe flooding in Business allowing some signature Aviva projects wholly funded India, Nepal and Bangladesh.
Oxfam continues to provide review and branded by the group and include green cement emergency supplies of clean, safe water and sanitation production in the Netherlands and Ireland: a biogas facilities to hundreds of thousands of people in Darfur and project in Sri Lanka: providing more efficient woodChad, as well as to communities in Angola and Ethiopia.
burning stoves in Africa: pumps for irrigation in rural In the UK we supported Breakthrough Breast Cancers India: and wind turbines in both India and China.
largest fund-raising event, the Aviva Walk London, for a Employee awareness was enhanced by engaging second consecutive year.
In Canada, we launched a two staff in the environmental agenda and explaining the year partnership with Think First Canada, a national many aspects of environmental management, including non-profit charity dedicated to injury prevention.
In India, an online carbon calculator, an energy saving week and our Global Services business has established a significant internal communications.
Our efforts have resulted in partnership with the Akanksha Foundation which works an improved response in the 2007 global climate survey with underprivileged children in providing them with on questions covering environmental responsibility, education and training to earn a livelihood.
up six points from last year.
As well as corporate support, we continue to Externally, we had great opportunities this year to promote employee volunteering as a means for our progress work on battling climate change with like-minded people to become engaged with their local communities.
companies, non-governmental organisations, academics and governments.
Andrew Moss joined fellow group chief executives and chairmen to work on the cross-sectoral CBI Climate Change Taskforce which called on government, business and consumers to factor climate change into dayto-day life now to avoid larger economic costs going forward.
We co-authored, and were a founder signatory to, the ClimateWise principles the first climate change principles created to address the role that multi-line insurers can have in respect of risk analysis, business lines and operations.
By signing up to the principles we have agreed that we will report annually on the progress we Aviva wins Community have made against them.
Further, Aviva believes that institutional investors, Impact award like Morley, have an interest in promoting and supporting a strategic response by companies to the issue of climate change.
The best measure is via corporate disclosure.
In response to this belief, earlier this year, Morley engaged with 29 persistently non-responding companies in 2007 to request carbon disclosure project adherence.
Over half of the companies engaged with provided a full response for the first time.
Aviva gained a Community Impact award from BITC for our Better Together Day, which was held at our London, St Helens office.
The event saw the office opened up to local schools, enabling children to see what a real city establishment is like from the basement archives to the boardroom.
The leadership team was highly supportive of the day, offering some of its time to meet the participants and engage in a Q&A session.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Employees and responsibility continued Customers With our core purpose to provide prosperity and peace of mind to our customers, it is vital that our corporate social responsibility agenda is at the heart of the way we interact with our customers in our vision and values, our strategies, our products and our services.
In laying a strong foundation, our group customer policy directs uncompromising standards of commitment to customers from everyone.
70 In 2007, we continued to focus on embedding customer-centricity in our culture: a common dashboard Business of customer indicators, led by the Net Promoter Score.
review This was developed to provide a framework on which all businesses will report to the executive committee and Board their progress in improving the customer experience.
Additionally, performance against customer targets help to determine senior management bonuses across the group.
We also launched the customer and employee centricity wiki an online knowledge sharing and discussion tool as a forum for agents of change to share best practice across the group.
In April 2008 our ambition is to further build on this by launching an orchestrated programme of activities focused on customer centricity.
At a local level, our businesses continue to innovate Aviva Best in Class for our customers.
We encourage you to read our CSR report to be published in 2008, which highlights some for carbon disclosure unique best practice from around the world on this agenda.
Suppliers We understand that our suppliers play an important role in ensuring that we continue to meet the needs of our customers and the delivery of our services to them.
The embedding of CSR in the Aviva global purchasing policy means that we have identified our benchmarks and expectations on each procurement activity and can influence our large supplier base to deliver this.
More importantly we can ensure that post contract award these In 2007, Aviva was honoured as principles continue to be delivered and enhanced rather Best in Class for our approach than eroded.
to climate change disclosure Externally, Aviva UK procurement is leading the in a report released by the development of a standard financial services supply chain Carbon Disclosure Project CDP5, approach.
This is being driven through the Financial Services a coalition of over 315 global Purchasing Forum CSR Sub-group of the Chartered investors with more than Institute of Purchasing and Supply, chaired by Aviva.
By employing a consistent approach and message In the report, Aviva was included across financial services procurement we simplify the in the Climate Disclosure achievement of CSR objectives for ourselves and our Leadership Index CDLI, suppliers and, through greater leverage and co-operation, a prestigious roll of honour for we should be able to effect positive change quickly with global corporations addressing 30 financial services peer organisations working with the challenges of climate change.
The CDLI comprises 68 FTSE500 companies that show distinction in their responses to the Carbon Disclosure Project survey based on their reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and assessment of climate change strategies.
Net Promoter is a registered trademark of Satmetrix Systems, Inc. Bain & Company and Fred Reichheld.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 External Benchmarking Focusing on Avivas Our CSR achievements in 2007 were recognised by carbon offset programme: our continued inclusion in some of the leading external benchmarks, which provide a good measure of our progress.
treadle pumps Some of the key achievements are highlighted below: The Dow Jones Sustainability World and STOXX indices track the financial performance of the leading  companies worldwide.
Aviva continued to feature in these indices in 2007.
71 Aviva was awarded a bronze class distinction Business in the SAM Sustainable Asset Management review Sustainability Yearbook 2008.
Only the top-scoring 15% of the 2,500 largest companies in the world, as reflected in the Dow Jones Global Index and assessed by SAM, are included in the Sustainability Yearbook.
As part of Avivas carbon offset The FTSE4Good Index Series measures the programme, we are involved with performance of companies that meet globally a treadle pump project in Uttar recognised standards on corporate social responsibility.
Pradesh, northern India where a It is a good benchmark as the criteria evolve large percentage of the population over time, demanding continued improvement.
live below the poverty line.
Aviva continues to be included in the index.
Irrigation is vitally important to crop production in the area but We also continue to be included in both the E. fuel for diesel pumps is both Capital Partners Investments ECPI Ethical Index expensive and polluting.
Euro and Ethical Index Global indices.
We were rated EE where E stands for ethical and were Treadle pumps are humanconsidered to be the best-performing CSR company powered, designed to lift water in our sector.
from a depth of seven metres or less: they are cost effective and Aviva was ranked 35 out of 100 in the 2007 non-polluting.
They typically replace Accountability Rating of the worlds largest rented diesel pumps which can companies a tool for measuring the extent to have a spectacular income impact which companies have built responsible practices for the farmer.
In the sample into the way they do business.
surveyed, rural households more than doubled their income.
IDE India have been working in 15 major Indian states, providing Six Steps wins an award more than 850,000 farmers with green technology.
org was named as the Accounting for Sustainability winner of the Best Corporate Social Working with the Accounting for Sustainability project, Responsibility Programme at the Aviva is helping define a new reporting standard for 2007 IFS Financial Innovation awards.
sustainable business and a tool-kit to embed sustainable This is an accessible, engaging and decision making.
The table on pages 72 and 73 demonstrates jargon-free web site, which provides some of the measures in the sustainability model.
people with free, unbiased financial We continue to work towards internalising the cost information and ideas.
It is part of carbon and demonstrating how environmental impacts of our commitment to play a of the business can be brought into our reporting and leading role in financial education, accounting process.
and is initially aimed at the UK.
This innovation meets a currently unfulfilled need across the population in the UK and hopes to address similar needs in other countries as plans are afoot to launch in other sites around the world.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Employees and responsibility continued Accounting for Sustainability: Climate, waste and resource impact Key indicators Direct company impacts Cash flow performance Non-financial indicators CO emissions 2 Avivas CO emissions Greenhouse 2 Total cost of offsetting 100% of our global CO emissions in gas emissions 2 120,000 2007 is approximately 909,000.
2.0 We incur up to a 2% premium CO emissions for zero emission renewable 100,000 2 72 electricity compared to fossil fuels.
Other significant emissions 1.5 80,000 Furthermore, while it is not possible Business to attribute individual weather review 60,000 events such as the June-July 2007 1.0 UK flooding event to climate change, the increased incidence 40,000 of such events has a significant 0.5 impact on the insurance claims 20,000 which we incur.
0 0 Other significant emissions Other than CO emissions our 2 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 CO tonnes 2 operations do not generate CO offset 2 material quantities of any other CO tonnes per employee 2 New businesses significant greenhouse gases.
Hazardous and Avivas waste Waste non-hazardous waste 350 Total disposal cost for hazardous 20,000 and non hazardous waste in 300 Hazardous and non-hazardous the UK was 464,000 in 2007 250 15,000 waste 2006: 585,000 which includes 200 Conservation investment UK landfill tax at circa 80 per tonne.
10,000 150 Conservation investment 100 5,000 Total capital expenditure for 50 storage and recycling in the 0 0 UK was 200,000.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total waste tonnes Recycled tonnes Total waste per employee kgs New businesses Water Resource usage Avivas water consumption The operating cost of water usage was 938,000 in 2007 14 700,000 2006: 670,000.
Water 12 600,000 Energy intensity Energy intensity 500,000 10 Total cost of building-related Paper usage 400,000 8 energy in 2007 was 20.4 million Environmental incidents 2006: 19.4 million.
6 300,000 Paper usage 4 200,000 We currently do not track the 2 100,000 cost of paper usage.
0 0 Environmental incidents 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 During 2007 there were 3 Water consumption m no environmental incidents 3 Water consumption m per employee as a result of our operations, New businesses resulting in fines of nil 2006: nil.
Avivas paper consumption 16,000 250 14,000 12,000 200 10,000 150 8,000 6,000 100 4,000 50 2,000 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Paper consumption tonnes kgs per employee New businesses tonnes 3 tonnes tonnes m tonnes per employee kgs per employee 3 kgs per employee m per employee Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Indirect impacts Industry Commentary on our performance, strategy and targets Products Suppliers Investments Benchmark information In 2007, our total CO emissions increased, mainly due to the We are looking at ways in which to help our Carbon Disclosure Project 2 inclusion of emissions data from our new business in Aviva USA, customers reduce their own CO emissions CDP 5.
Best in class 2 Aviva Global Services, Sri Lanka and Russia.
through the provision of innovative products Innovest ranking AAA.
such as Pay As You Drive and by offering BREEAM minimum ranking From our existing businesses, emissions have shown an 11% reduced premium insurance for drivers of Good for new build and decrease, by 13,555 tonnes reflecting significant focus on energy hybrid and flexi-fuel in the UK, Canada and refurbishment.
efficiency and resourcing renewable energy.
Aviva France offers reduced 2006: 55% of our electricity worldwide is purchased from premium household insurance for energy zero emission sources.
We offset our remaining emissions on a Business efficient houses.
Delta Lloyd has a motor retrospective basis.
We began this process in 2006, compensating review insurance product, which as part of the product for the carbon output of our consumption of non-renewable provides emission offsetting for the mileage sourced electricity, gas and oil from buildings and business travel, covered by the driver.
including air, car and train, across all of our global operations.
The UK business has also pioneered digital Our top two areas for reducing our carbon footprint in 2008: flood mapping to more closely match risk to We are installing Telepresence systems in six locations premium and has showcased flood resistant worldwide to begin with to reduce the amount of business and resilient measures to assist customers with travel.
We have set a reduction target of 10% for the routings.
We are working with our vehicles service fleet RAC In the Netherlands, Delta Lloyd Asset to investigate alternative lower intensity fuels.
Management Business has two funds which concentrate on climate change mitigation Although we are growing organically and by acquisition, Environmental Technology Fund and New we will still strive to reduce our CO emissions per full-time 2 Energy Fund, with funds under management equivalent employee over time.
Morley Fund Management with 165 billion funds under management engages with companies they invest in to encourage greater environmental reporting disclosure.
In 2007, the total volume of waste decreased and the total We are working with our upstream partners 200 kgs of waste per amount recycled increased.
to eliminate waste from the business through employee per year.
take back and to switch to biodegradable Recycling rate of 6070% Plastic wrap from the Auto Windscreens operation is now being wrapping etc.
Environmental clauses are included BRE Office toolkit.
recycled 70 tonnes per year with a value of 135 per tonne.
Each new supplier Opportunities are being taken to reduce the amount of waste has to sign up to Avivas CSR Supplier Code of coming into the business through clauses in purchasing contracts Conduct focusing on environmental impact around removal of packaging.
as well as human rights and social issues.
In 2007, with the proportion of waste recycled increasing We follow all building regulations insulation, from 64% to 88%, recycling costs including secure destruction proper disposal of waste material including of all paper and cleaning costs were lower as a result of building waste and white goods.
In the UK we have recycling in place for 14 different waste streams.
We have a responsible motor repair network which disposes of waste and spare parts responsibly.
3 There is limited scope for the retro-fitting of latest technologies Work is continuing with marketing departments 7.7m per employee per in water usage reduction in washrooms.
However, where possible and suppliers to provide marketing materials year.
National Water Demand we take advantage of such technologies.
Consideration of the with recycled content and remanufactured Management Centre.
use of greywater is included in requirements for new buildings.
Our energy strategy is to invest in new energy saving technology Shareholders have been asked to switch to and to reduce our energy dependency on fossil fuels.
We are electronic transfer of dividends and receiving prepared to pay up to 2% premium for purchasing electricity communications over electronic mediums.
from renewable zero emission sources.
Energy conservation investment is now starting to be measured.
Capital expenditure work on energy conservation is proceeding with a payback period of less than three years.
Our strategy is to increase the use of recycled content paper, while reducing overall paper use.
Cost and quality of recycled papers are now comparable with virgin content paper.
We have introduced self selection options, which enable policyholders to receive and save policy documentation online, thus reducing paper usage, printing and postage costs.
Governance Hong Kong Aviva advertising In 2007 Hong Kong launched their new brand campaign.
The new strapline is Focus on Today.
Partner with us for a better tomorrow, which is highlighted in the advertisements by a binocular visual to symbolise a vision to the future.
The campaign was featured on TV, press, outdoor including subway stations, Region: Asia Pacific radio and online.
