Financial review Average balance sheet Changes in net interest income volume and rate analysis The following tables allocate changes in net interest income between changes in volume and changes in interest rates for the last two years.
Volume and rate variances have been calculated on the movement in the average balances and the change in the interest rates on average interest earning assets and average interest bearing liabilities.
Where variances have arisen from changes in both volumes and interest rates, these have been allocated proportionately between the two.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 71 Corporate sustainability This is another lesson we have learnt from our South African operations.
Corporate sustainability In Ghana our microbanking programme is now working with over 500 Susu For Barclays, there are two separate but mutually dependent aspects to collectors and reaching over 280,000 market traders across the country.
One is our duty as a bank to provide sound and enduring The programme is being extended to other intermediaries such as credit returns for our shareholders, and the best possible services for our unions, trade associations, microfinance institutions and church groups.
The other is our responsibility to conduct our global business ethically, and with full regard to wider social and environmental Responsible lending considerations.
Our ambition is to develop both of these complementary We have reported on this issue in our recent Corporate Responsibility strands as we move forward.
reviews, setting out our approach to what remains a high-profile and intractable issue, especially in the UK.
In the last year we have continued Barclays as a sustainable bank to enforce strict criteria on new credit card applications, using a scoring Banks are central to every society: they provide the funding that facilitates system that takes over 400 variables into account when assessing an business and entrepreneurship, support a sound financial system, and applicants likely ability to manage their credit.
Around 50% of applications help to create jobs and wealth.
As one of the worlds leading banks, with for credit cards are declined as a result.
We have also extended our nearly 135,000 employees and operations in over 50 countries across data-sharing collaboration with the UK credit reference agencies: pooling the world, Barclays plays a significant role, whether it is working with information about cash advances and minimum payments is proving to governments on major infrastructure projects or bringing mainstream be an effective way of flagging up those customers who are in danger of banking to customers in emerging markets.
We have a new unit that can step in at this stage and offer support and guidance to get their finances back on track.
In all of this, the customer is absolutely central.
If we are to make sustainable banking successful, and successful banking sustainable, we We are also testing a new product, Barclaycard Freedom, which combines must put our customers at the heart of everything we do, and build our a credit card and the features of a structured loan, making it easier for services around them.
We must earn and keep their trust by ensuring people to manage their borrowing and keep their interest payments down.
that the products we sell are understandable and appropriate.
Customer service This may seem like a statement of the obvious, but the banking sector in We have a strategic priority to be the best bank in the UK.
In the last twelve general has not always had a reputation for doing this.
We want to change months we have started to roll all our various customer initiatives into that.
This aspiration covers every aspect of our business and every stage in what we are calling Real Retail.
We are sharing best practice more actively, a customers relationship with us, from the purchase of a Barclays product and both managers and employees are getting new powers to make for the first time, to the way we assess applications for loans, to the more decisions, and tailor their product range, based on local customer needs.
general aspects of customer service such as complaints-handling, Real Retail also includes a new programme to telephone customers to confidentiality, and security.
ask about the quality of our service and products they have purchased.
Focusing more on the customer is also an integral part of what we call Over 20,000 calls have been made so far, and the feedback is being inclusive banking.
This is partly about appealing to the broadest possible channelled back to our product development teams.
range of people as part of our strategic move into mass-market services in Risk management our emerging markets businesses, and partly about understanding the The incorporation of environmental and social risks into mainstream exact nature of our local customer base, and adapting our business model commercial credit assessments is an area where Barclays has demonstrated and product range accordingly.
A good example is our approach to basic banking accounts.
In the UK We have been a member of the Equator Principles since their inception, we now have over 660,000 customers who have our basic Cash Card and currently chair the Steering Committee for the group of Equator banks.
Account, and we have been working closely with consumer groups and We continue to assess our environmental and social impact beyond the third parties such as housing associations to ensure that these accounts project finance remit of these principles see table on page 73 and are are easily accessible and the product features and communications are working to include climate change and human rights risks.
We now have tailored to meet their needs.
In Africa the potential for growth in this area ten briefing notes for all lending covering a wide range of social and is enormous: over 100 million of the continents people have yet to be environmental risks.
These notes set out an overview of the risks facing brought into mainstream banking, and could in time buy a whole range different sectors, and the ways they can be mitigated, as well as the of other financial services.
Absa has been a pioneer of basic banking in legislative and regulatory environment applicable to that industry.
South Africa, and has attracted over 4 million customers to these accounts.
A good example of this process in practice in 2007 is Absas involvement The same thinking is now being applied in other African markets and India, with the Bujagali Hydropower project in Uganda.
A rigorous social and with new basic banking products being developed.
We are also distributing environmental assessment was carried out, and the results were these products through new and innovative formats such as express incorporated into the final plans.
branches and direct sales agents, alongside our traditional branches.
