Corporate and social responsibility In continuing to build Beazley as a premier risk-taking business, we take our corporate, social and environmental responsibility seriously.
We constantly consider the ethical implications of how we We strive to ensure the health, safety and welfare of operate in our day-to-day business and put policies and our employees and anyone else who may be affected procedures in place that reect our commitment.
We also by our operations.
Employees are expected to take recognise the regulatory and reputational risks associated reasonable care for their own health and safety at work with ethical practice and adhere closely to the Association as well as those of others, and to co-operate with of British Insurers ABI guidelines published in October management to create a safe and healthy working 2001 on the disclosure of listed companies social environment.
All employees, contractors and visitors responsibility policies and endeavours.
In 2007 we also are subject to induction, training and supervision in signed up to the Lloyds Climate Wise principles.
aspects of health and safety, and additional training in ergonomics and re safety awareness is provided Intrinsic to our culture is an ethical approach to business to all employees.
All health and safety matters are conducted by and towards all our stakeholders, including communicated via notice boards, email memos, the management, staff, clients, suppliers and shareholders.
intranet and via safety representatives.
The values that form the essence of our brand and our working culture are professionalism, integrity, effectiveness We believe that the knowledge and skills of our and dynamism.
We have appointed Nicholas Furlonge as employees are key elements of organisational success the group sponsor of our corporate and social and therefore invest in training and development.
We ensure that this is accessible by everyone and recognised as a shared responsibility between individual Corporate responsibility employees and the organisation.
We are an equal opportunities employer and make it our policy to offer equal treatment to employees and Employees are kept informed of developments in prospective employees, ensuring that all are treated business through our internal communications including fairly and with dignity and respect.
We absolutely do formal company-wide briengs that occur twice a month, not permit unlawful discrimination of any kind against team meetings and an information-rich intranet.
any person, to include on the grounds of gender, race, We are proud of our working culture that ensures that nationality or ethnic origin, age, disability, religious we achieve our aim to attract and retain talented staff beliefs, sexuality, marital status, working patterns in competitive markets and supports them as they strive or pregnancy.
to perform to an excellent standard.
We are committed to taking positive action to ensure that all employees, whether full-time or part-time, receive equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, development, promotion and remuneration.
com Social responsibility Environmental responsibility We encourage employee involvement in a range of We are committed to achieving best practice in all the community programmes.
Nicholas Furlonge is the areas of the business where there may be an impact chairman of the Lloyds Community Programme on the environment.
From our head ofce in Plantation Management Board in London, and encourages staff Place in London we encourage environmentally aware to involve themselves in helping pupils in schools in behaviour including: the Tower Hamlets area, one of the most deprived areas A policy for minimising waste by scanning risks and in the country.
The largest programme is Reading claims which enables employees worldwide to view Partners, where members of staff volunteer their lunch documents electronically rather than on paper: hour to sit with children and help them with their literacy.
Extensive video conferencing is available at the There are currently 14 volunteers on this scheme and a London ofces and some US ofces to reduce further seven on the Maths Partners programme which requirements for business travel and air travel: we also support.
In addition, one employee participated Recycling facilities for plastics, glass, paper, in the police mentoring programme, where a senior cardboard and used toner cartridges are located business person is paired with a senior police officer in throughout the building: one of three of East Londons most challenging boroughs Glasses are used within the ofces and rellable in order to help them develop their management skills.
glass bottles are used for the meeting rooms in lieu In 2007, we sent volunteers to a school to help students of disposable ones: understand the process of getting paid.
We also Recycling bins for old mobile telephones for charity: participated in cricket coaching and are looking at some Multi-functional scanner, printing, copying and faxing of our business teams participating in Lloyds community facilities exist and double-sided printing is set as a programme days in 2008. default on all copiers and printers: In the London ofce, motion detectors are tted to The group made charitable donations during the year lighting systems to ensure electricity usage is kept ended 31 December 2007 of 59,232 2006: 25,436. to a minimum and lighting levels have been reduced The groups charity budget is managed by a charity by 25%: committee chaired by Nicholas Furlonge, and consideration The landlord for the London ofce procures the is given to a wide range of activities, particularly where electricity from a green supplier: members of staff are engaged in fundraising activities.
The London ofces have changed the paper supplies For example, these activities raised over 7,000 to 100% recycled: and competing in a dragon boat race and over 2,000 in We also actively encourage the use of public transport a white-water rafting competition.
Also, our annual and provide ample cycle racks, shower facilities and Christmas card is distributed electronically to over 20,000 locker storage for those employees who cycle into key clients and contacts, giving them the opportunity to work and we provide a cycle to work scheme.
indicate the charity that they wish us to support.
We are also currently undertaking an environmental In October 2006 we introduced a payroll-giving scheme impact assessment of all our UK operations, including in the UK in association with the Charities Aid an assessment of its carbon emissions.
By the end of December 2007, 11% of staff had joined the scheme, donating 13,791 annually to 31 different charities.
No political donations were made by the group in either the current or prior reporting period.
