BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 49 Corporate Responsibility Report The Board and management of BlueBay recognise that It is important for all of us to participate in the success of the through its actions, the Company has an impact on its people, Company and this is demonstrated by the fact that almost all its marketplace, the community and the environment.
We permanent employees have direct or indirect stakes in the Group.
believe that as a result of this impact, we have responsibility We consider long-term commitment to the Group should be to behave in ways which reflect our core values.
recognised and rewarded and we have extended our practice of offering part of the annual discretionary bonus award to be taken in The way in which we discharge this responsibility will reflect on our the form of deferred fund share awards which vest over several years.
We pride ourselves in the reputation we have established.
We are keenly aware that failure to live up to our core values may We are committed to providing our employees with a congenial damage that reputation and that, once lost, it is very hard to regain.
We feel it is crucial for us to maintain a collegiate working atmosphere based on mutual respect for all, regardless of Employees the position a person has within the Company.
We believe that our In order to be successful in our business, we need to recruit the very corporate culture is an important aspect of our success and that it best professionals in the marketplace to fill each and every one of is best maintained by staying together.
When it became clear that the positions we have at BlueBay.
We aim to continue to recruit and our current London office would no longer accommodate all of our retain the most accomplished professionals in the marketplace.
We employees, we looked for alternative premises that would enable recruit our employees based solely on professional ability, objective us all to stay together.
Similarly, in anticipation of the growth of our criteria and without regard to any possible discriminatory factors.
New York office, which engages in sales, client service and research We have a diverse workforce and as at 30 June 2007, we employed activities, we have secured the lease of additional office space 185 people from more than 20 nationalities in a ratio of 2 3 male: directly adjacent to the current office.
We operate user friendly employment policies aimed at promoting equal opportunities and tackling and preventing We recognise our health & safety obligations to everyone who harassment or discrimination.
These policies are available on our either works in or visits our premises.
Hugh Willis, Chief Executive is intranet to all employees, workers and contractors.
responsible for health & safety and he is assisted by an external fully qualified professional.
Our comprehensive health & safety policy is Our clients place a high level of trust in us and we recognise both the available on our intranet.
In line with recent legislation we operate a responsibility this brings and the resulting demands on our people.
non-smoking policy in our office and our policy on the intranet offers Having grown the business rapidly we acknowledge that to continue to guidance to employees.
Although we carried out an extensive health be effective we must provide the necessary support and development.
and safety review during the early part of 2007 we will undertake Consequently our employees receive appropriate training to ensure another once we have moved to our new London location.
they are developing their professional abilities.
Going forward we will continue to focus on professional skills training together with Marketplace mentoring and talent management programmes.
In addition, we We believe that the interests of our business are best served by believe that an integral component of employee development is establishing a reputation for reliably doing what we say we will encouraging constructive feedback coupled with a requirement that do and being as transparent as is commercially sensible to enable all employees have agreed objectives.
To achieve this we have always people to check our assertions for themselves.
We regularly respond operated an annual appraisal system and for several years we have to due diligence questionnaires and invite prospective clients to initial also undertaken mid year reviews.
We consider that these tools enable due diligence visits which will typically cover both the investment employees to identify their strengths and the behaviours they need to process and the operational infrastructure.
Many existing clients address in order continue to attain their potential.
conduct regular follow-up due diligence visits.
BlueBay Asset Management plc 50 Annual Report 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report continued We have established a substantial client relations team in our London record of channelling most of the donations they receive through office, with additional resource in both our Tokyo and New York offices.
These were the National Society for the In addition to day-to-day client servicing, these teams ensure that Prevention of Cruelty to Children NSPCC, Save the Children and clients receive regular investment reporting, hold client review meetings the National Childrens Homes.
and ensure that information is available via our secure client extranet site.
The wider team also have responsibility for ensuring the Group We sponsor those employees that wish to participate in the annual website is maintained.
They produce Group and product literature and Chase Corporate Challenge where monies are raised for the Sports publication of our periodic investment publications eg Wavelength Aid charity.
setting out the Groups views on various aspects of the credit markets.
We are always keen to receive feedback.
During the course of 2007-08, we will continue to look into opportunities to enable the Group and its employees to contribute We welcomed the improvement in the standard of internal control to the wider community.
review introduced by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in their new AAF 01 06 standard which replaced Environment the old FRAG 21 standard.
We commissioned KPMG to carry out a We have become increasingly aware of the negative impact economic gap analysis of our control environment against this new standard activity may have on the environment.
We are committed to limiting which has resulted in a number of control improvements in our and ultimately reducing the impact of our business on the environment.
"We invited Standard & Poors ""S&P"" to review and rate our long-only funds and three of our flagship funds now have Our move to a new building in London opens up a number of an S&P rating, two of which are AA and one of which is AAA."
The redevelopment of the building was completed in 2007 and it complies with the highest building environmental As a fixed income credit asset manager, we invest predominately in standards in the UK.
In order to fit out the inside of the building to bonds and loans rather than equities.
As a result, our ability to meet our business requirements, we selected a contractor based on a influence the management of the companies in which we invest is tender process where environmental credentials were one of the critical typically significantly more limited than it would be for an equity selection criteria.
The contractor we have selected is widely recognised investor.
Nevertheless, we recognise that there is a growing number for its environmental practice and in a recent development for the UK of investors who want their investments to be made on a socially Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra the responsible basis.
During the course of the year, we have worked contractor received an Excellent rating under the Building Research closely with one of our clients to develop the concept of an ethical Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM.
alternative to one of our funds, which excludes investments in certain companies and industries at the request of the client.
For the ongoing operation of our business, we are actively looking at ways in which we can reduce our consumption of energy.
In the Community selection of cleaning contractors, we are aiming to source suppliers As we grow in size, we have become increasingly aware of our who can provide us with more effective ways of recycling office impact on the wider community.
We asked all our employees if waste.
At the time of writing, it is a little too early to describe they would like to nominate a charity to which we could make specific initiatives, however, we anticipate we will have more to a corporate donation.
In 2006-07, we made a combined report in our next Annual Report.
contribution of 100,000 to three charities which focused on disadvantaged children and which, in our opinion, had a good
