Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 28 28 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Governance Corporate social responsibility Bradford & Bingley has continued to develop Ian Anderson, Group HR Director, took over in specialist lending markets, we are able to its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR executive responsibility for the Groups CSR work with our customers to decide how much programme during 2007, with particular focus programme in 2007. they can afford to borrow.
on improving our environmental performance.
Doing the right thing in the marketplace Lifetime Bradford & Bingley became a CarbonNeutral Lending Lifetime mortgages enable homeowners over company on 1 January 2007, offsetting all our Bradford & Bingleys residential lending the age of 60 to release some of the equity carbon dioxide CO emissions.
activity continues to focus on a range of niche they have built up in their properties to 2 areas providing mortgages for individuals enhance their lifestyle in retirement.
In addition to offsetting, we have worked hard who need a more specialist product than to reduce our total level of emissions and the those available in the mainstream mortgage Bradford & Bingley is one of the leading Company now has a carbon footprint of market.
The three main products are buy-tolenders in the lifetime mortgage market, under 0.5 tonnes of CO per employee.
let, self-cert and lifetime mortgages.
sold through our Mortgage Express brand.
2 Bradford & Bingley believes in placing CSR at Buy-to-let Lifetime mortgages are regulated by the FSA the heart of our business activities.
We aim to Bradford & Bingley is the market leader in and Bradford & Bingley continues to be a conduct our business in a socially responsible buy-to-let with the largest buy-to-let customer member of Safe Home Income Plans SHIP manner in respect of the environment, staff, base in the UK, accounting for around 20% of through the Mortgage Express brand.
customers, shareholders and local communities.
SHIP is the UKs leading professional body for We continue to structure our CSR reporting All of our buy-to-let products offer flexible equity release providers.
Launched in 1991, it along the FORGE framework for CSR payment features as an integral part of the is dedicated entirely to the protection of Management and Reporting for the Financial mortgage.
This enables people to overpay borrowers and promotion of safe home Services Sector.
The FORGE Group is a or underpay their mortgage, or even take a income and equity release plans.
consortium of financial institutions and payment holiday.
This is part of our commitment involves the British Bankers Association and to understanding our customer needs and In addition to these specialist loans, Bradford the Association of British Insurers reference responding to changing lifestyles and & Bingley also has a portfolio of traditional www.
Our CSR report follows employment patterns.
residential mortgages, which are secured on the four major themes identified by FORGE as UK residential property and sold through our being those most relevant to financial services Bradford & Bingleys intermediary brand, branch network.
organisations Marketplace, Workplace, Mortgage Express, also uses its position as a Community and Environment.
market leader to publish authoritative reports Savings on confidence in the buy-to-let market and Bradford & Bingleys branch and third party Our CSR report, which is published separately, economic outlook reports from its chief network offers a very competitive range of was independently verified by Bureau Veritas.
Both of these reports are published deposit based savings and investment on our website, www.
products, supported by our online, postal and Bradford & Bingley has published a stand telephone channels.
alone CSR report since 2003 and each year we We can see that buy-to-let has increased the have responded to feedback on the previous availability of rental housing stock in the UK, In 2007, Bradford & Bingley partnered with the years report by including more information on making it easier for people Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation to Key Performance Indicators KPIs and targets to find affordable decent housing.
Bradford utilise one of their major new characters, Shaun for our CSR programme.
& Bingleys product range has been at the the Sheep, in a range of product initiatives.
forefront of buy-to-let and we intend to keep Bradford & Bingley is a national member of our market leading position.
The Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation is Business in the Community BITC, and the a national charity raising funds to London Benchmarking Group.
Self-cert improve the quality of life Bradford & Bingleys self-cert product range for children in hospitals Bradford & Bingley continues to be a member aims to help customers who are finding that and hospices of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible their employment patterns are becoming throughout the UK.
companies and participates in the BITC increasingly more diverse and therefore do Corporate Responsibility Index.
In 2007 not fit the requirements of most mainstream Bradford & Bingley was proud to be named as high street lenders.
one of the top 100 Companies That Count in the Corporate Responsibility Index.
Self-employed customers make up almost 10% of the working population source: Office Bradford & Bingley was awarded Gold status of National Statistics where multiple jobs or in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index and income sources and seasonal or short term was awarded Platinum status in the BITC contracts are common.
Part time workers now Community Index and BITC Environment account for 25% of the total labour force Index, the highest grade possible.
We were also proud to be awarded a BITC It is these customers that our self-cert product Silver Big Tick for our ten year partnership with range is designed to help.
With the valuable Shelter, and a BITC Big Tick in the EDF Energy underwriting experience that we have gained Environmental Leadership Award category.
Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 29 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 29 Bottom, left page: Wallace & Gromit character Shaun the Sheep starred in a range of Bradford & Bingley product initiatives in conjunction with the Wallace & Gromit Childrens Foundation which is a national charity raising funds to improve the quality of life for children in hospitals and hospices throughout the UK.
Below: Umran Amin, Bradford & Bingleys Learning Manager, shows some of the learning materials used in the Bradford & Bingley Academy.
The Foundation funds an innovative range of We have also incorporated a score for the module on the manager as communicator to projects to ensure these children have a feel-good factor, incorporating such enhance their communication and mentoring better, brighter future.
Created in 2003, the questions as how likely staff would be to skills.
Branch managers have also benefited Foundation has funded projects in 23 recommend Bradford & Bingley as a place to from a two day training module on the hospitals and hospices.
work and whether they feel the Company has importance of good customer service changed for the better in the last twelve and ways to improve delivery.
To raise funds for the Foundation, Bradford months.
The feel-good factor has remained & Bingley ran a national Shaun the Sheep constant at 79% this year, which Bradford & Bingley operates in different colouring competition for which Bradford demonstrates that the culture and values communities across the UK and we understand & Bingley made a donation for each entry programme has remained at the forefront the benefits of diversity to our business.
Our branch network continued to of peoples behaviours.
This is a significant sell pin badges and the whole Group took increase on the feel-good factor of 58% Our workforce should reflect the communities part in the Wallace & Gromit Wrong Trousers in 2005 before the culture and values in which we live and work, and our Day in June.
In 2007, Bradford & Bingley programme was rolled out 2006: 78%.
employment practices help us to deliver on staff and customers raised over 15,000 this goal.
We promote diversity and equality for the Foundation.
The response rate for the survey continues to across all aspects of working life and we increase and is now up to 82% 2006: 72%.
believe it is important to share best practice As well as selling mortgages and growing and success.
We provide the opportunity for savings balances, the branch network also Bradford & Bingley has an in-house training all staff to develop their skills and knowledge maintains and develops relationships with our facility, The Bradford & Bingley Academy, and to enjoy fulfilling careers.
In order to do that, Bradford & Bingley designed to proactively work with people offers a wide choice of highly competitive in both career and personal development.
Bradford & Bingley is a member of the products from a range of providers including Employers Forum on Disability, the Employers general insurance, wealth and personal loan Forum on Age and Opportunity Now.
These products, which are provided by third parties.
organisations, amongst others, look at ways to promote awareness of disability, age, race and Investment guidelines gender within the workplace.
As a primarily residential lender we lend to individuals rather than businesses, so we do Bradford & Bingley recognises that a not incorporate ethical or environmental diverse workforce gives the Company a criteria over and above legal requirements.
wider range of experiences and helps us to For example, not lending to bankrupts nor respond better to the needs of our customer lending on properties without planning base.
We take our commitment to diversity permission or clear legal title.
seriously and have a named Board Director, Robert Dickie, responsible for diversity issues We seek to be a responsible lender and ensure and reporting.
our credit checking identifies individuals who have the ability to repay the loans and not get Women occupy 47% of management roles into repayment difficulties.
Our mortgage 2006: 47% and 26% of senior management products do not offer loan values based on roles 2006: 35% within the Group.
Ethnic minorities occupy 7% of Doing the right thing in the workplace In 2007, the Academy delivered the majority management roles 2006: 5% and 5% of Bradford & Bingleys employment practices of employee training, including two major senior management roles 2006: 6%.
In 2007, continue to reflect the human rights standards courses for managers.
Team managers within 10% 2006:10% of the total workforce are enshrined in the United Nations Universal operations functions and branch managers from ethnic minorities, a figure that is Declaration of Human Rights and the have been able to attend a two day training representative of the UK workforce as a whole.
These cover such items as Analysis of workforce by percentage minimum working age, working hours, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 health and safety and discrimination.
Women overall 66% 66% 65% 65% 61% During 2007, Bradford & Bingley continued to Women management 47% 47% 45% 44% 36% roll out its culture and values programme.
Ethnic minorities overall 10% 10% 10% 11% 13% This nurtures a culture of working together Ethnic minorities management 7% 5% 5% 7% 9% across departments and functions within the Value of training 2.4m 3.3m 1.5m 1.6m 7.2m Company, with a focus on reaching every member of staff as well as obtaining Value of training per staff member 746 1,021 492 501 929 objective feedback across the Group.
Percentage of staff represented by 45% 45% 52% 46% 40% recognised trade union UBAC The staff satisfaction survey ran quarterly Percentage of staff participating 37% 35% 39% 52% 52% throughout 2007 and, in addition to reporting in Sharesave scheme on the Group level results, managers received currently 28% of staff records do not have an ethnic origin recorded.
Figures for the 72% of staff records with ethnic feedback on their teams.
origin recorded have been grossed up to represent 100% of staff for comparison purposes.
Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 30 30 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued Robert Dickie, Group Operations Director, is the nominated member of the Board of Directors responsible for Health & Safety and chairs the Group Health & Safety Committee.
In addition, Bradford & Bingley operates a dedicated Health & Safety Advice Line for any member of staff to request information or advice from the Health & Safety Team.
This is accessible by telephone, fax or email.
One of the most significant risks associated with the Groups operations is the safety and health risks associated with bank raids.
Thankfully, these events are rare and have reduced over the past decade.
In 1998, Bradford & Bingley suffered 38 raids but in 2007, we suffered 10.
One of the main reasons for this decrease is the Groups ongoing work on improving its security measures.
The Group is a member of the Raid-control Trust www.
org, a crime reduction initiative that aims to raise security standards in retail premises, thereby reducing the potential for commercial robbery Bradford & Bingleys main partner in The symbol is used in our job advertisements and creating safer working environments.
incorporating diversity across the business is and application forms to make it clear to Quest for Economic Development QED which potential applicants with a disability that we In 2007, we invested in new security systems is a Bradford-based organisation set up to welcome their application on the basis of their in all branches to bring them up to the Raidsupport the South Asian community within the abilities and will interview all applicants with a control standard, a significant commitment by UK.
However, since its inception in 1990, QED disability who meet the minimum criteria for the Group.
has worked with many FTSE100 companies the role.
and government departments to promote the In 2006, we reported on the work done by benefits of diversity within the workplace.
We have induction loops in all branches, Bradford & Bingley to develop an action plan and have improved wheelchair access and on managing the health effects of work-related We are also concerned about the health introduced power assisted doors across the stress.
We are pleased to report that in 2007, and wellbeing of our employees, recognising branch network.
The Royal National Institute we have seen significant reductions that this is vital to our business.
We have for the Deaf RNID provide interpretation in the levels of stress-related absence.
comprehensive policies agreed with the services for our customers and we provide recognised staff union UBAC on Flexible sign language, lip speaking, deafblind Stress-related absence at Bradford & Bingley Working and Fair Treatment at Work.
We manual interpretation, speech to text is in line with industry levels but the financial continue to offer a confidential counselling interpretation and a notetaking service.
sector has been identified by the Health & service, provided free of charge to employees In addition, customers can access our Safety Executive HSE as an action area for and their families, to enable discussion of any products via RNIDs Typetalk service.
issue affecting their lives, at work or at home.
Bradford & Bingley is also committed to ensuring Our bespoke Stress Management Plan Our Flexible Working Policy is available to all accessibility across our product range and we combines risk assessment techniques with staff, not just those with children under six or continue to provide customers with literature in information and advice for managers and disabled children under eighteen, which is the different formats, such as Braille, audio and staff and requires managers to update all risk legal requirement.
For Bradford & Bingley, large print.
Our corporate and customer-facing assessments and action plans on at least, an flexible working incorporates a wide variety of websites have been audited by the Royal annual basis.
working practices and can be any working National Institute for the Blind RNIB to ensure pattern other than the normal one.
that they are as user-friendly as possible.
In 2007, we saw stress-related absence fall by 48% to 480 hours lost per 100,000 hours Bradford & Bingley was awarded the two Bradford & Bingley has a legal and moral worked 2006: 916.6 hours.
The work done ticks symbol by the Employment Service in responsibility for the health and safety of its by our Health & Safety department on stress June 1995.
This recognises our commitment staff and members of the public where they management has been recognised by the to people with disabilities.
Using the two are affected by its business.
HSE as setting best practice in this area and ticks symbol means we are working towards the Group is regularly invited to present a case the guidelines in the Employment Service We review our Health & Safety Policy Statement study at HSE Healthy Workplace Solutions Code of Good Practice on the Employment on an annual basis at Board level and the workshops across the UK.
policy is updated every January.
A full copy is issued to every branch and department.
Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 31 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 31 Top, left page: Bradford & Bingley CEO, Steven Crawshaw, led a national visit to Bradford as part of HRH The Prince of Wales Seeing is Believing Programme.
Below: Bradford & Bingley was awarded the Silver Big Tick in Business in the Communitys Awards for Excellence for its ten year partnership with Shelter, the national homelessness charity.
One of the challenges in operating a national Supporting our staff is also important to us and class exercises: and other managers have branch network is ensuring that health and so we have two schemes that are available to agreed to become a mentor to a student.
safety is managed consistently across all of our support their choice of charities matched branches.
This is further complicated by the fundraising and matched payroll giving.
Bradford & Bingley is also working with Care for fact that the local authority for each branch the Family CFF, a national charity which aims is the enforcing authority for health and safety Preventing and alleviating the causes to promote strong family life.
Together we have legislation rather than any national organisation.
of homelessness developed a course called Quidz In which is We were delighted that in 2007, Bradford & aimed at parents who want to learn how to In recognition of this, the Group signed a Lead Bingley was recognised in the Business in the talk about personal finance with their children.
Authority Partnership with Bradford District Community Awards for Excellence, with the Council in September 2006.
The Lead Authority award of a Silver Big Tick.
This marked a Supporting charities and organisations Partnership Scheme LAPS sets out to raise the decade of working with Shelter.
The Silver Big throughout West Yorkshire standard of health and safety management in Tick was a special Jubilee Award made by BITC Each year, staff at our Head Office sites in a business by partnering with one local to mark the 25th anniversary of its formation.
Bingley and Crossflatts vote on authority.
That local authority then becomes the a choice of charity for the year.
This year, the focal point of liaison on health and safety issues staff voted for Yorkshire Air Ambulance and between other local authorities, the Health & monthly dress down days and other Safety Executive and Bradford & Bingley.
charitable activities have helped to raise over 6,000 for the charity.
In 2007, our Lead Authority Partnership with Bradford District Council enabled us to apply In June, Steven Crawshaw led a national visit consistent interpretations of health and safety to Bradford with HRH The Prince of Wales policy across our branch network.
This led to Since 1996, Bradford & Bingley has worked Seeing is Believing Programme which focused increased compliance with health and safety with Shelter, the UKs national campaigning on Bradfords regeneration plans.
Chief as measured by our internal audit teams.
charity for homeless and badly housed executives and senior managers of fourteen people.
Shelter provides free, professional national companies came to Bradford to see We continue to encourage employees to and independent advice, advocacy and how private, public and voluntary sectors can benefit from the Groups success through support to over 100,000 people per year.
work together to support and deliver a share schemes.
Currently, 37% of employees regeneration agenda.
hold at least one Sharesave account 2006: Business Action on Homelessness BAOH 35%, enabling them to save over a period of is BITCs flagship programme relating to Bradford & Bingley continues to work with local years with the prospect of buying Bradford & homelessness.
BAOH is a unique partnership primary and secondary schools, during 2007 Bingley shares at a discount.
between leading businesses, homelessness we participated in the Young Enterprise agencies and the government, which aims to Scheme with Bingley Grammar School.
The Doing the right thing in the community break the vicious cycle of no job, no home, by Young Enterprise Company Programme is run During 2007, Bradford & Bingley grew its helping homeless people to find employment over an academic year and gives students community programme by 10% to 1,850,616 and achieve independent living.
Bradford & practical experience of business and 2006: 1,687,011 as we continued our Bingley is a national member of BAOH and enterprise by setting up and running their own investment into the communities in which we Steven Crawshaw, our Chief Executive, sits on business.
Bradford & Bingley staff participate live and work.
This is the seventh consecutive the BAOH executive forum.
by becoming business mentors who work with year we have invested over 1 million and the the students in a weekly meeting.
second time we have invested in excess of In 2007, Bradford & Bingley agreed to 1.5 million.
completely fund the launch of BAOH in The Community Action Team, which consists Bradford for a minimum of three years and we of staff volunteers from across all functions of We believe it is important to have a community have also appointed a Programme Manager the business and a representative from the programme that is relevant to Bradford & who is based in our Head Office in Crossflatts.
Community Affairs team, has used funds to Bingley as a business.
Preventing and specifically support their local communities.
alleviating the causes of homelessness Personal Finance Education They meet monthly to consider requests from continue to be our main corporate area of Bradford & Bingley is working with the UK local charities and community groups and support.
We have used the increase in our Career Academy Foundation, who lead and make small grants averaging an approximate community programme this year to launch a support a national movement of employers, 650.
During 2007, 40 charities received number of schemes supporting personal schools and colleges, working to raise the funding in the Bingley area.
finance education, both in schools and with aspirations of 16 to 19 year-olds who are parents, as a second area of corporate support.
Bradford & Bingley continues to encourage employee involvement, in particular, by Bradford & Bingley also invests heavily in the Bradford & Bingley is supporting the supporting their fundraising activities.
West Yorkshire region, specifically in Bradford Foundation in two secondary schools in and the Aire Valley where its Head Office is Bradford Buttershaw High School and Dixons All employees are able to apply for funds to located.
We support a wide range of Technology College who launched the Career match their fundraising efforts for charity in a community projects in West Yorkshire, Academy course in September 2007. scheme which matches the first 250 of including a number of grass roots and funds raised per employee.
We saw a large community sports projects run by the major Bradford & Bingley staff participate in two increase of 42% in matching during the year professional sports clubs in the area.
ways: some of our senior managers have totalling 32,680 2006: 23,084.
We also been into the schools to deliver lectures or take saw an increase in the number of staff Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 32 32 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued receiving matching, up 36% to 144 2006: 106.
This increase has been driven by To demonstrate our commitment to increased internal promotion, including disclosure of our CSR programme, we presentations to all new starters in the publish our confidential feedback from the Groups induction programme.
BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, BITC Community Index and the BITC Environment In addition to offsetting our carbon emissions, Bradford & Bingley also matches employee Index on our website.
we have also committed to reducing total donations through the payroll-giving carbon emissions across the business.
The programme, Give As You Earn.
We continued Bradford & Bingley produces a separate electricity contract for our Head Office sites to promote the scheme to new and existing CSR Report which is available on our in Bingley and Crossflatts, and our entire employees via online and internal promotions.
co. uk or on request to branch network is for 100% renewable 7.8% of our workforce now donate via Give As csr@bbg.
Alternatively, please write energy, thus reducing our ongoing carbon You Earn 2006: 8.5%, although, we have to CSR Department, Bradford & Bingley, emissions by 70%.
seen average monthly amounts donated rise PO Box 2, Bingley BD16 2LW to request to 26.90 2006: 23.84.
We continue to develop our Environmental Key Bradford & Bingley matched 81,331 of Performance Indicators and Targets and have employee donations 2006: 78,675.
This is a summary of the full CSR Report.
For based those indicators on the Reporting more details please refer to the full report Guidelines for UK Business published by the Doing the right thing in the environment which includes a much larger range of key Department of Environment, Food & Rural Bradford & Bingley has been committed to performance indicators.
Affairs 2005. reducing its environmental impact for a number of years now.
On 1 January 2007 the whole of the Bradford & Bingley Group became CarbonNeutral.
Community investment 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Total Community Investment Programme 1,850,616 1,687,011 1,320,612 1,295,639 1,024,077 Total Community Investment Programme as a percentage 0.53% 0.50% 0.43% 0.46% 0.39% of underlying pre-tax profit Total Community Investment Programme spend per employee 575 512 433 406 132 Ranking in the BITC Community Index Platinum ---- Percentage score in the BITC Community Index 98% ---- Ranking in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index Gold ---- Percentage score in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index 94% 89% 84% 69% 58% BITC introduced a ranking system in 2007 of Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze for scores above 70% in their indices.
Energy consumption 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Tonnes CO2 generated Branches 1,428 tonnes 6,640 tonnes 9,081 tonnes 9,190 tonnes 14,021 tonnes Tonnes CO2 generated per employee 0.44 tonnes 2.06 tonnes 2.98 tonnes 2.88 tonnes 1.81 tonnes 3 3 3 3 3 Water Usage Branches 40,489 m 38,977 m 43,292 m 46,174 m 67,054 m 3 3 3 3 3 Water Usage per employee 13m 12m 14m 14 m 9 m Waste 255 tonnes 279 tonnes 494 tonnes n a n a Percentage waste recycled 79% 66% 62% n a n a Ranking in the BITC Environment Index Platinum ---- Percentage Score in the BITC Environment Index 95% 87% 77% 62% 61% figure calculated using conversion tables supplied by the Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
BITC introduced a ranking system in 2007 of Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze for scores above 70% in their indices.
