CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We interpret corporate responsibility CR Investee companies principles as taking due regard of societys Candover backs management teams expectations of the way we manage our to run the businesses we invest in.
By so doing we can avoid risk do not intervene directly in their executive and identify opportunity, which ultimately responsibilities, but we do expect them will underpin our long-term access to to consider the social and environmental markets, capital and resources.
impacts of how they operate.
At Candover we take care to comply with We have adopted seven principles which all relevant legislation and to ensure that we expect each management team to we are a reasonable and fair employer.
consider at least annually with us, and to We maintain good relationships with our use to stimulate ideas and action within business partners, and Candover Partners their company.
Limited has developed an active charitable programme.
However, our principal 1 Invest and build social impacts and the consequent risks Our aim is to create value, and creating and opportunities arise in our portfolio value often requires investment.
Our companies which operate in a diverse management teams will actively find ways range of sectors and countries.
We do to invest in the technology, facilities and not manage these businesses directly, people in their companies to make the regardless of the level of control that we businesses profitable and sustainable.
have, but nevertheless we recognise the responsibilities that accompany our 2 Respect the law ownership and our strategic involvement Management teams will ensure they through the companies boards.
understand the laws and regulations that relate to their companies, and that they This year we have commissioned a review are fully compliant.
of how best to manage our responsibilities which concluded: 3 Tackle waste Our management teams will understand CR is an important and valid concept how their businesses use resources for a private equity company like and ensure that consumption and waste Candover, with the potential to affect are controlled.
In companies that use the business in direct and indirect ways significant amounts of energy, it will be Candovers principal social and measured and managed.
environmental impacts lie in the portfolio companies.
We must therefore 4 Focus on the market develop ways to understand and tackle Our businesses need healthy markets to these, commensurate with our position grow, and healthy markets in turn need as investors in these businesses healthy societies.
Our management teams The responsibilities of Candover itself will look in depth at trends and social relate principally to the investment concerns relevant to their market.
decisions we make, our approach to transparency and disclosure, and also 5 Focus on the positive the firms ability to use its resources in We believe in the power of business to support of a number of social causes.
solve problems, including social and environmental ones.
Our management teams will be alert to opportunities to develop new products and services that benefit society and the environment.
6 Integrity Our management teams will run their companies honestly and fairly, ensuring that they and those who work for them are free from damaging conflicts of interest, corruption or nepotism.
7 Appropriate reporting Many of our businesses are relatively small, and most are business to business operations.
In larger businesses, or those whose operations have a significant public face, our management teams will ensure that they report publicly on suitable nonfinancial topics following sector and industry norms.
10 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Managing corporate responsibility The Walker Guidelines data to the BVCA in support of its role We have taken a number of steps as a During 2007 Sir David Walker published in data gathering and economic impact result of the review to help us manage our his Guidelines for Disclosure and analysis.
Candover is fully compliant in corporate responsibilities effectively: Transparency in Private Equity, aimed at both these respects.
helping to improve the understanding of We have established the principles the role of private equity within the UK The Guidelines also place enhanced set out above for the management economy.
The Guidelines oblige private reporting requirements on portfolio teams of investee companies equity firms to comply, or to explain clearly companies meeting certain criteria The Board will review Candovers why they have not.
Candover believes that including having more than 50% of approach to CR, and its performance, it is fully compliant with the Guidelines in revenues generated in the UK, and on a regular basis its 2007 reporting, the requirements of more than 1,000 full-time equivalent We have sharpened our focus which together with the location of the UK employees.
Two of our portfolio on social and environmental risks relevant disclosures are shown in the companies Gala Coral and DX Group and opportunities in our investment accompanying table.
Gala Corals latest appraisal processes report already satisfies the required Candover Partners Limited joined The Guidelines also stipulate that wellstandard, DX Group will be fully compliant Business in the Community in 2007. established valuation guidelines should later this year.
Gala Corals 2007 Report We plan to strengthen relationships be used by private equity firms to value can be found at www.
here and with the Private Equity their assets, and that firms should provide Foundation.
We will look for projects where our executives can contribute pro bono skills and experience Guideline requirement To be found in We will participate in sector and other forums to help develop the A description of Candovers structure About Candover, page 2 understanding of how CR applies to the private equity industry.
Investors in funds managed by About Candover, page 3 Candover Partners Limited categorised The Private Equity Foundation by geography and type The Private Equity Foundation PEF was established as a registered charity Our history, investment approach and Our investment approach, page 1 in 2006 to provide a focus for collective indicative holding periods About Candover, page 2 charitable activity for Europes private Funds and investments at a glance, page 7 equity community.
The Foundations mission is to empower young people to Our commitment to conform with the In this section, page 11 reach their full potential, which it does by Guidelines on a comply or explain basis investing both money and expertise from the private equity community to help The leadership of Candover in Board of directors, page 27 strong charities achieve a step-change the UK in their impact.
The Foundation raised 5.0 million in its first year, and has A description of Candovers UK 20 largest investments, pages 18 to 24 so far invested in charities including portfolio companies IntoUniversity, Volunteer Reading Help, Community Links and The Place2Be.
Candover Partners Limited is a founder member of PEF, and one of Candover Partners Limiteds Managing Directors is a trustee of PEF.
Candover Partners Limited committed 125,000 to PEF during 2007.
11 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Left: Colin Buffin Managing Director, Candover Partners Limited Right: Marek Gumienny Managing Director, Candover Partners Limited 12 Candover Report and accounts 2007
