qxd 3 4 08 13:04 Page 5 Corporate Responsibility As Friends Provident undergoes this TRUST AND CONFIDENCE period of considerable change, our For a number of reasons the life and pensions industry continues to suffer from a determination to operate as a responsible lack of consumer confidence.
We are doing what we can to reverse this, principally business remains firm and will continue by focusing on how our products are communicated, sold and paid for.
We recognise that to sell long-term products we need to win the trust of consumers and we are to guide the organisation during these working with the industry through initiatives such as the Financial Services Authoritys challenging times.
Treating Customers Fairly and the Association of British Insurers Customer Impact Scheme to help restore confidence.
The values and standards by which we expect to be judged are set out in our Statement of Business Principles.
These RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT recognise that our success depends on Friends Providents most significant impact on society is the indirect influence we have the trust and confidence placed in us by through investing responsibly.
We understand that investing in companies for financial our customers, shareholders, business return can have both positive and negative impacts on society.
We aim to address the potentially negative impacts by using our influence as a major shareholder to partners, employees, the communities encourage responsible business behaviour.
We also provide solutions for customers around us and society at large.
All these who wish to invest their money responsibly through our award-winning Stewardship different groups of people have a stake range of investment funds and products.
in our business for different reasons and we know that we will deserve their trust and confidence only by maintaining, FINANCIAL CAPABILITY and living up to, the distinct values and As a financial services company we have a responsibility to ensure people understand reputation that have underpinned our our products and services.
However, we recognise that many people today do not understand much at all about planning their finances.
We believe this needs to start business for 175 years.
This focus at school age and we are supporting the work of the personal finance education group, remains at the heart of these principles.
a leading organisation working with schools.
We also work with the Life Academy to help our customers prepare for retirement and the Friends Provident Foundation, Our approach to corporate responsibility an independent charity, focuses its grant-making programme on addressing why so is based on our response to six issues many people are excluded from basic financial products.
These issues are determined by, and continually validated through, research among our CLIMATE CHANGE stakeholders.
Governments, businesses and individuals are realising the potential impact of climate change, not just on the environment, but also on society and the economy.
The strength of our commitment and We all have a responsibility for tackling it.
We operate a successful carbon management programme to reduce the emissions directly associated with our progress is reflected in our Gold rating operations and last year we jointly led the development of ClimateWise, the insurance in The Sunday Times Top 100 Companies industrys response to this pressing issue.
that Count and our sustained involvement in national and local initiatives promoting responsible business practice.
COMMUNITY For full details of our corporate Healthy and prosperous communities provide better trading environments for responsibility CR programme and business and we have a long history of supporting communities touched by our operations.
Our focus is on supporting our employees and the communities in performance, please refer to our 2007 which they live and work.
Over 1,000 of our people participated last year in our Corporate Responsibility Report at community programme, Friends in the community, volunteering 4,000 hours www.
com responsibility of time and raising 600,000.
You can also request a copy of our CR Review, which explores the material issues facing our business in more depth, PEOPLE by emailing groupcommunications@ Friends Provident aims to provide a working environment free from discrimination, where everyone feels valued and respected and is able to pursue a rewarding friendsprovident.
co. uk career, contributing to the success of the business.
Annual surveys show a level of engagement among our people well above the industry average.
