qxd 1 4 08 20:44 Page 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Corporate Responsibility Report As Friends Provident undergoes this period of considerable GOVERNANCE Friends Provident has a well-developed and integrated change, our long-held approach to corporate responsibility CR management system, which includes the following: CR remains important to us and will continue to help guide  Main Board responsibility the organisation during these challenging times.
The distinct  Company-wide strategic execution values and standards by which we expect to be judged are  A CR team set out in our Statement of Business Principles, and the way  Defined roles and responsibilities across the company in which we live up to these high principles is reflected by our  Performance indicators for main impact areas inclusion in the Dow Jones World Sustainability indices and in  An objective and target-setting mechanism built into the the Top 100 Companies that Count listing.
companys strategic and business planning process  An internal communication programme Our CR programme has made good progress during 2007,  An internal verification process with all parts of the business implementing their own programmes under an overarching CR strategy.
This strategy RISK focuses on six material issues, determined by and continually CR risks and opportunities are regularly identified through Friends Providents risk management process.
The ABI validated through a regular process of engagement with Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment stakeholders.
The material issues are trust and confidence, are reviewed and reconciled by the CR department.
Key responsible investment, financial capability, community, CR-related risks have been assessed and include: recruitment climate change and our people.
For full details of and retention of key employees, responsible investing, our CR programme, performance and plans, please refer community relations, financial literacy levels, climate change, to our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report at mis-selling issues and bribery and corruption.
You can also information on the companys investment controls and risk request a copy of our CR Review, which explores the material management appears throughout this publication.
issues facing our business in more depth, by emailing MEMBERSHIPS groupcommunications@friendsprovident.
co. uk During 2007 Friends Provident has maintained its inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Sir Adrian Montague Indices and was again rated in The Sunday Times Companies Executive Chairman that Count based on an annual assessment by the charity Business in the Community.
In addition, F&C is listed separately in FTSE4Good and is a member of the Property Environment Group Index, the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change and the Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact.
We are working with a number of CR expert bodies, such as Forum for the Future, The Carbon Trust and Ipsos MORI, to develop our CR strategy and initiatives.
We are active members of the CR community and are members of the Corporate Responsibility Group, the London Benchmarking Group, UKSIF and Business in the Community.
Note: All commentary relates to the UK-facing Life and Pensions business unless stated otherwise.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 45 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 1 4 08 20:56 Page 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility Report continued TRUST AND CONFIDENCE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT FINANCIAL CAPABILITY 2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS  F&C has made good progress embedding  The Stewardship range of ethical funds for  The Friends Provident Foundation, an Treating Customers Fairly into the business retail investors remains the market leader, independent grant-making authority, gave and has implemented a continuous process reaching a landmark 3 billion funds under 775,000 in grants for financial inclusion to measure performance.
 A series of key performance indicators has  F&C engaged 762 companies on issues  Work has continued with the charity Life been developed in response to feedback ranging from health and safety to bribery Academy, to provide financial literacy received in our Customer Impact survey.
and corruption and climate change.
training for our customers least likely to receive financial advice.
 A dedicated customer committee has been  F&C was rated global top quartile in all set up, chaired by our Managing Director of six categories of the UNs Principles for  A series of pre-retirement counselling Operations, to provide a forum for senior Responsible Investment.
seminars has been provided for group managers to focus on customer needs.
PROVIDING SOLUTIONS FOR CUSTOMER IMPACT RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS BIGINVEST Bringing the customer to the forefront of As part of our commitment to enhance The Friends Provident Foundation focuses Friends Providents operations is essential to opportunities for customers to invest in on the right use of money in society, with our future in a changing financial services line with their own principles, we offered programmes initially centred on addressing industry.
Specific customer focused initiatives two innovative products for customers issues associated with financial exclusion.
undertaken this year include a review of during 2007: BIGinvest is the UKs only company that customer literature to ensure the use of plain invests in and finances social enterprises Stewardship Corporate Bond fund: a new English, a review of the principles surrounding nationally and was one of a number of ethically screened fund which is part of the our treatment of complaints to ensure initiatives that received a grant from the pioneering Stewardship ethical range.
The consistency of approach and a further analysis Foundation in 2007.
Full details can be found Stewardship range is amongst the most into the root causes of those complaints.
org strictly screened ethical funds in the market Although these measures will take time to and is overseen by an independent TOWER HAMLETS FINANCIAL feed through into improved results we Committee of Reference.
LITERACY PROGRAMME continue to participate in the Customer 45 pupils from Marner Primary school in Impact Scheme CIS and value the feedback F&C Global Climate Opportunities fund: Tower Hamlets visited our offices for a obtained from it.
Results from the second CIS this fund focuses on climate change workshop focusing on financial literacy, survey are disappointing and in response the mitigation and adaptation opportunities.
covering subjects such as income and Customer Committee is identifying the steps The fund has nine key themes: alternative savings, interest, debit and credit cards, needed to address the issues raised.
Our energy, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, cheques and budgets.
This is the second Caring for Customers report available at waste, advanced material, forestry and stage of our Financial Literacy programme.
com reports provides agriculture, water, acclimatisation and 2008 our volunteers will be visiting the school more details of our CIS results and other supporting services.
AWARD WINNING SERVICE The 5 star service rating from Financial Adviser Service Awards was retained for a fourth consecutive year.
Because this is voted for by IFAs, it is highly regarded by the industry and is a key measure of our service.
46 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 046-073. qxd:30349 Middle CorpGov.
qxd 27 3 08 03:13 Page 47 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS CLIMATE CHANGE COMMUNITY PEOPLE 2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS  F&Cs Chief Executive played a leading  Charitable giving totalled 1.3m in 2007.
 Maintained the Business in the Community role in the Corporate Leaders Group on Opportunity Now silver award.
 Held an art competition amongst local Climate Change.
schools to promote climate change, as part  Employee absence for Friends Provident  Launched a switch it off awareness raising of our 175th anniversary celebrations.
campaign for employees as part of our  13% of employees participated in our  Friends Provident Pension Scheme was carbon management programme.
named by UKSIF as one of three leading  Lombard implemented a recycling scheme Corporate Pension funds for their approach  F&C supported Cancer Research UK as as part of its environmental management to responsible investment.
their first Charity of the Year.
 The summary CR Report for employees  FPI held two community-based challenges  F&C teamed-up with Climate Care to entitled Troublesome Rabbits won that supported their adopted charity, the introduce a carbon off-setting programme the IVCA Clarion award for effective Isle of Man Childrens Centre.
FRIENDS IN THE COMMUNITY  Carbon dioxide emissions for the year IMPROVING MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME totalled 12,314 tonnes 2006: 12,460 tonnes.
CAPABILITY In its first full year, 25% of our people During 2007 a career development CLIMATEWISE participated in our employee-led programme, programme was launched as part of the The business helped develop, and became a Friends in the community volunteering people strategy for all middle and senior founding partner of ClimateWise, the 4,300 hours and raising 600,000 to support managers.
Managers attend a development industrys response to arguably the biggest community initiatives.
This included team centre where a tailored individual issue facing the world today.
The initiative challenges such as helping job-seekers from a development plan is formed and an executive was coordinated by the ABI and followed a former mining community and undertaking coach is assigned to support them through series of discussions with HRH The Prince of various work with the Wiltshire Wildlife Trust.
ClimateWise provides a framework for CHILDREN IN NEED shows that the level of engagement of those insurance companies worldwide to set out 135 of our people donated their time people who have started the programme how they can address climate change through and skills manning a call centre to take is 14% higher than those who are yet to their business activities.
donations for Children in Need.
The career development programme There are six commitments made by 4000 calls and processed over 140,000 in is part of a wider strategy to improve signatories of the ClimateWise principles: donations and pledges.
performance management practice across the business and is scheduled to run for a 1 Lead in analysis of the risks posed by further two years.
climate change 2 Inform public policy making STAFF ENGAGEMENT INDEX 3 Raise awareness amongst customers We are pleased to report a positive five year 4 Incorporate the consideration of climate trend for staff engagement, as measured by change into investment strategies our annual staff survey, which despite a one 5 Reduce the environmental impact of percentage point fall this year, remains high own operations and well above industry averages.
6 Report progress regularly to ensure 2007 75% accountability.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 47
