Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility For more information please visit www.
com 105 In this section you will nd: 106 Corporate Responsibility Review What we do Our Strategy Key Performance Indicators Introduction 108 Customer Strategy 109 Colleague Strategy 109 Community Strategy 110 Environment Strategy 110 Prospects Our reputation and the health of our brand is one of our strongest assets.
It is integral to the success of our business.
106 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Responsibility Review What we do Our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR The majority of our shareholders are HBOS customers.
This dynamic sets us apart from the competition.
A strong brand Our integrated approach to Corporate Responsibility, with its emphasis on highly competitive products, helps fide ne our brand.
Disclosure We seek to lead the sector on disclosure.
In 2007, we were the first major UK bank to publish dedicated Financial Inclusion and Climate Change reports.
They detail our performance and set out our targets and plans for the year ahead and beyond.
Commitments to stakeholders Our statement of business principles, The Way We Do Business, is our commitment to our stakeholders about the standards we aspire to deliver.
We are the only major UK bank to underpin this with Key Performance Indicators and to report progress against each of these year on year.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 107 Our Strategy Key Performance Indicators Our Corporate Responsibility approach focuses on best Our Key Performance Indicators help us to measure serving the diverse interests of our key stakeholders.
our progress against each element of our strategy.
107 Shareholders Return on Equity We will promote the interests of our shareholders by 19.7 % 2007 seeking to increase the value of their shares and dividends, and through sound corporate governance.
We will 20.8 % 2006 communicate with shareholders regularly and in doing so will seek to be clear, comprehensive and balanced.
Our communications with shareholders is discussed in the Corporate Governance report under the heading Relations with Shareholders on page 121.
Customers Number of times an HBOS product We will be honest, fair and open in our dealings with our was featured in best buy tables customers and endeavour to help them at all times.
We are 3,912 % 2007 committed to providing them with value for money products, designed and promoted in a simple and transparent way, 3,317 % 2006 and made as widely available as possible.
When things go wrong, as they sometimes do, we will resolve problems as quickly and fairly as we can.
Colleagues % of colleagues satis ed with opportunities to learn We will create a safe working environment which encourages what they need to do their jobs well openness, honesty and mutual respect, and where colleagues 67 % 49 % can constructively challenge and ask questions.
We offer HBOS 2007 Industry Norm 2007 equal opportunities for all.
We will provide the opportunity 65 % 49 % for all colleagues to develop their skills and knowledge, and to enjoy ful lling careers.
We offer competitive remuneration HBOS 2006 Industry Norm 2006 with the opportunity to participate in the success of HBOS.
Our approach to colleagues Total Reward is described in the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice on pages 144 to 145.
Society Environment I nvestment in Our main contribution to society is the value we can add the Community through our success in business.
We will seek to be a positive 53,161 tonnes 2007 55.2 m 2007 in uence on those social and environmental issues which, UK CO emissions Investment in the Community 2 having listened responsibly to our shareholders, customers, colleagues and suppliers, we think are important.
44.2 m 2006 56,743 tonnes 2006 Investment in the Community UK CO emissions 2 108 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Responsibility Independent benchmarks fide ne us as a leader Customer Strategy Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index: Market leading products we are a Platinum Performer, the highest possible rank.
Our starting point in CR is our core product agenda.
We aim to provide our customers with better value products than the Carbon Disclosure Project: HBOSs rating is the highest competition.
We have a relationship with two out of every five of any UK bank.
Last year, we received 3,912 mentions in the best buy tables, considerably more than any other big bank.
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World: we are one of only two UK banks in this index.
The Ultimate Reward Current Account, launched in February 2007, is believed to be the best value packaged account in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: we achieved a place for the market.
In May, we launched a beat and freeze campaign, 4th year running.
We scored 81%: the highest for a UK bank aiming to beat customers insurance quotes and freeze their and one of the worlds top five.
Governance Customers We strengthened our governance framework in 2007 with In July, HBOS launched the largest ever branch expansion a new Climate Change Action Group, chaired by former programme undertaken in Australia.
We plan to open 160 Finance Director Phil Hodkinson who has Board responsibility branches on the East Coast over the next few years.
With senior representation from across the Group, to expand CR through our international operations is a key focus this drives climate change initiatives.
The Board reviews CR during 2008. strategy annually.
There are also annual reviews of speci c activities like climate change, diversity and financial inclusion.
HBOS was the first financial institution to report how much money is held in customer dormant accounts and the first to The Way We Do Business WWDB Action Group, also chaired launch a campaign to reunite customers with their forgotten by Phil Hodkinson and with senior representation from all funds.
We have reunited customers with over 14m so far.
From divisions, drives CR strategy alongside a framework of other January 2008, Halifax will search for remaining lost customers, high level action groups: with an average balance of just 273.
Halifax will also register details of unclaimed dormant accounts on the Unclaimed HBOS Communications Group, chaired by Group Chief Assets Register.
Executive Andy Hornby: Responsible lending Diversity Steering Group, also chaired by Andy Hornby: and We advocate the fullest possible sharing of data between banks.
Doing so provides a clearer picture of customers lending Financial Inclusion Committee, chaired by Chief Executive commitments and improves lending decisions.
We share full Retail Distribution, Insurance & Investment, Jo Dawson.
data on new products and up to 95% on historical products.
Some other banks share data only on new customers but not From 2008, following Phil Hodkinsons retirement, the Climate existing customers.
We are lobbying to change this situation.
Change Action Group will be chaired by Chief Operating Of cer Philip Gore-Randall.
The WWDB Action Group will be chaired We believe in providing our customers with a clear and by Corporate Chief Executive Peter Cummings.
transparent summary of their accounts.
HBOS publishes summary boxes setting out key information for consumers on Stakeholder engagement a range of products including: payment protection insurance We held detailed discussions with key specialised investors, statements, credit card statements and estate agency customers, colleagues and other stakeholders.
change strategy launched in March 2007 was a direct response to colleague feedback.
It generated a response from several Most of HBOSs lending is secured lending in the form of hundred colleagues: more than any previous campaign.
The average loan to value across our mortgage book is 44%.
The average income multiple has remained Last year, we held regular meetings with consumer groups essentially the same for over 15 years, demonstrating a long including Which?, Citizens Advice, National Consumer Council history of prudent lending.
NCC, Citizens Advice Scotland and the European Consumers Organisation.
Increasing stakeholder engagement is necessary to further develop our programme.
This is an important area of development in 2008.
Dormant Accounts In 2007 HBOS became the first financial institution to launch a campaign to reunite Growing the UK franchise customers with their dormant Targeted international growth funds successfully reuniting Cost leadership customers with over 14m so far.
Capital discipline Colleague development 14m Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 109 Financial inclusion We keep all aspects of our reward systems under continuous We are the first major bank to publish a target 15% for new review to ensure they deliver the right reinforcement in respect social banking account openings.
We publish progress towards of recruitment, retention and motivation.
In 2007, colleagues meeting this on our website every quarter.
We exceeded this were awarded 80m in free shares and a total of 270m in target in 2007. cash bonuses.
HBOS colleagues across the UK have now received 218m in free shares since our Free Shares scheme HBOS installed 100 new, fee-free ATMs last year in areas of began in 2005. need across Scotland and the North of England.
The fee-free ATMs dispensed 84m, and saved customers 1m in charges Through our Colleague Opinion Survey we track our had the machines not been fee-free.
leadership and capability indices as well as employer and 109 product advocacy.
Our success is clear, 76% of colleagues We are the only major bank to have launched a Christmas would speak highly of HBOS as an employer, well ahead of Savings Account for our social banking customers.
This the industry norm of 50%.
provides an easy way of saving for Christmas, with the financial strength of HBOS behind it.
On maturity customers can take Last year, we signed a groundbreaking Partnership Agreement their savings in cash or High Street vouchers.
Up to 100,000 with our partner unions ACCORD and Unite.
Over the next five of our social banking customers will be offered the product years we will seek to increase membership to approximately in 2008.
We believe this ambition makes us unique in the UK financial sector.
We aim to lead the sector on disclosure.
Our Financial Inclusion Report contains detailed information on our performance and We have made excellent progress, but we are not complacent.
Our challenge is even more pressing given the changed marketplace, but we are con dent our work to date has Colleague Strategy created a platform that we can build on this year in a way As we face the unprecedented financial turmoil in global that will help truly set HBOS apart from its competitors.
markets, our focus on colleague development has never been more important.
Our ability to execute our strategy within these Community Strategy tough markets relies on engaging with, and motivating, all our Economic impact colleagues to deliver consistently outstanding performance.
HBOS is a signi cant generator of wealth across the UK, particularly around our heartlands in Yorkshire and Scotland.
Our colleague strategy is very clear.
We aim to have the We are one of the largest payers of tax in the UK, paying 700m strongest leadership teams in the sector and we are very clear in tax on our pro t in 2007.
The UK Exchequer received a total about the high expectations of both what our leaders deliver of 1.2bn in tax and National Insurance from HBOS in 2007. and how they do this.
HBOS-U, our corporate university for senior managers, has been an outstanding success: 76% of HBOS invested 55.2m in communities across the UK in 2007, colleagues believe their line manager is good at managing including support for financial inclusion, sponsorship of sports people against an industry norm of 58%.
HBOS-U will be and arts for young people, and donations through the HBOS extended to all leaders in 2008.
We provide all our colleagues with ongoing opportunities to HBOS Foundation learn and develop their careers.
We constantly evaluate our The HBOS Foundation is now one of the largest corporate efforts to create a positive working environment that re ects fundraisers in the UK.
Funded by HBOS, the Foundation drives the diversity of our colleagues.
We are committed to achieving volunteering and charitable work for the Group.
In 2007, HBOS high standards of health and safety across all of our businesses.
During the year, the Foundation Our Health and Safety policy is available on our Corporate donated almost 11m to charity, including contributions raised Responsibility website.
Financial Inclusion Report Million Challenge Our Financial Inclusion HBOS colleagues, supported Report is available online at: by matched funding from the www.
com community Foundation, raised over 3.6m for includes HBOS FI report.
pdf our Million Challenge charities British Heart Foundation, WRVS, Family Holiday Association, the RNLI and Age Action.
3.6m 110 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Responsibility continued National and regional grants: the Foundation is funding the only bank to produce a standalone Climate Change a new educational programme, believed to be the most Report: and comprehensive of its kind in the UK, with the Sutton Trust in the first financial institution in Europe to carbon label one of Yorkshire.
The programme, delivered by Leeds University, its products, Halifax Web Saver, showing people how much aims to widen participation by under-privileged young people CO2 each account produces.
The Foundation also distributed 2.8m in national and regional grants to financial literacy and money Our agship south west headquarters, Bristol advice projects and to develop and support communities.
Harbourside, was completed at the end of 2007.
Built from sustainable materials and kitted out with cutting Matched funding: in 2007, HBOS colleagues in the UK and edge energy ef ciency technology, the building received Ireland, supported by matched funding from the Foundation, the highest possible building rating, Excellent, in the raised over 3.6m for the Million Challenge charities.
Building Research Establishments Environmental They were: British Heart Foundation, WRVS, Family Holiday Assessment Method BREEAM environmental rating.
Association, RNLI and Age Action.
The matched funding scheme raised 2.1m for a wide range of other charities.
Colleague advocacy of our environmental programme has improved from 39% to 51% over two years.
There remains Colleague volunteering: volunteering has continued to much to do to meet our 70% target by 2009. grow.
In 2007 over 10,000 HBOS colleagues volunteered, compared to over 7,000 in 2006.
21.3m has been raised Asset management via the Foundation, through volunteering, in the last five years.
In 2007 Insight Investment launched a unique in-depth assessment of how well FTSE 100 companies and Europes Sponsorship largest companies are responding to climate change risks Over 70,000 young people bene ted last year from HBOS and opportunities.
sponsorship of sports and arts projects in our heartlands of Yorkshire and Scotland.
An estimated 65% of these young Insight continues to integrate environmental, social and people were from socially disadvantaged areas.
Bank of governance ESG issues into the standard investment Scotlands Community Football is the most comprehensive process, to ensure that these issues are core to decisions.
grassroots football programme in Scotland.
The Midnight Insight engages with companies on issues as diverse as climate League aims to keep young people off the streets and reduce change, obesity, nanotechnology, water management, organic crime levels.
It was expanded in 2007 into all 32 Scottish cotton and alcohol retailing.
In a recent survey by FairPensions, Local Authorities, reaching over 10,000 young people.
Insight scored 83% for its work in the ethical investment sector.
Museum on the Mound Prospects HBOSs Museum on the Mound, awarded five stars by the Though HBOS is one of the biggest lenders to Community Scottish Tourist Board, is Scotlands only banking museum.
Development Finance Institutions in the UK, there is more work The Museum focuses on money, in all its shapes and forms.
we can do with credit unions.
In 2008, we are launching new Working with educational consultants, schools sessions have initiatives with Calderdale and Rotherham credit unions and been developed to support the curriculum-related topics of increasing our investment in this sector.
Over 30 classes of school children participated in workshops at the Museum in 2007.
Our climate change strategy positions us well with regard to expected legislative developments and customer demand.
In Environment Strategy 2008 we will launch a new strategy for how we manage paper Climate change use the type we buy, how much we use and how we dispose In 2007 we launched a major new climate change strategy of it afterwards.
and became carbon neutral in the UK.
We were: We will seek to maintain our sector lead for disclosure.
the first UK bank to purchase 100% renewable energy to In addition to our CR Report, we will publish, for the second power our entire estate: year, our market leading Financial Inclusion and Climate Change reports.
the only bank to offset remaining emissions by purchasing only 100% Kyoto Compliant Certi ed Emissions Reductions: Climate Change Report Our market leading, standalone Climate Change Report is available on our website at the Growing the UK franchise following address: Targeted international growth www.
com community Cost leadership includes HBOS Climate Capital discipline Change Report 2007. pdf Colleague development WWW.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance For more information please visit www.
com We aspire to the highest standards of corporate governance, not as an exercise in compliance, but as a means of driving the performance of the business.
Dennis Stevenson Chairman 111 In this section you will nd: 112 The Board 114 Corporate Governance 122 Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice 146 Directors Report 150 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Harry Baines Company Secretary & Group Counsel
