British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 22 Corporate social responsibility We continued to make an important contribution towards tackling climate change.
this year generation from our nuclear stations avoided the emission of 33.7 million tonnes of C0.
2 We publish a full Corporate social and apprentices, with 23 graduates and environment responsibility report each year.
the 53 apprentices joining us in 2006 07.
We have continued to make an report for 2005 06 is available on our this represents a significant increase in important contribution towards tackling website and the report for 2006 07 will the apprentice intake from 40 in the climate change.
this year generation be published in the summer.
from our nuclear stations avoided the emission of 33.7MtCo that would 2 marketplace We have also boosted our average otherwise have been emitted had the We believe it is important to keep our employee numbers by 400 to around same output come from fossil fuel customers advised of developments in 6,000 compared to last year.
our Eggborough coal-fired the electricity market through the also continued to invest in enhancing power station emitted 6.9MtCo in 2 provision of high quality up to date the skills and competencies of our 2006 07, bringing our net savings to information on our website and through workforce.
on average, each employee around 26.8MtCo.
this is the largest 2 events such as our thought provoking devoted 8.4 days to training single contribution towards meeting annual talkpower Conference.
this comparable with last years figure the uKs climate change goals.
years conference was our most of 8.5 days.
successful to date, with a high calibre our nuclear generation also avoided panel attracting around 200 energy We encourage our staff to aim for the emission of about 97kt of sulphur professionals.
exceptional performance and recognise dioxide so and 68kt of nitrogen 2 employees who have made a significant oxides no.
the Flue gas x in addition, we held an investor day contribution to achieving the Company Desulphurisation FgD equipment and an event for socially responsible values through our annual excellence which has been fitted on two of the investors in order to update investors awards.
Demonstration of Company four units at Eggborough operated for on our progress and listen to their values and a positive attitude are preits first full year this year resulting in views.
through these and other requisites for winners in all 10 award greatly reduced so emissions at 2 initiatives the Companys senior categories which range from safety and Eggborough.
the station emitted management participated in over 300 human performance to Commercial 14.3ktso and 17.9ktnox during the 2 meetings with financial institutions Awareness and teamwork.
year, bringing our net savings to during the year.
2 We remain committed to all aspects of British Energy Direct has been named equal opportunities, recognising the phase i of the Eu Emissions trading number one for customer service in the value of a positive approach to diversity.
scheme Eu Ets operated during the Datamonitor Energy Buyer satisfaction in order to strengthen our focus on year and will continue to the end of this survey for the 29th quarter running.
diversity we have created a working calendar year.
over the calendar year group made up of representatives from 2006 we emitted 7.7MtCo compared 2 workplace across the Company and the chair of with an allocation of 4.47MtCo.
phase 2 our people are a key asset and will be our Equal opportunities Focus group, i carbon prices fell from just under instrumental in driving the Company the staff consultative body for equal 30 tCo at the beginning of the 2 forward towards its goals both today opportunities.
financial year 2006 07 to around and in the future.
in recognition of that, 1 tCo by 31 March 2007 due to the 2 we have continued to recruit graduates announcement of excess allowances C o r p o r At E s o C i A L r E s p o n s i B i L i t y British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 23 outside the uK and as a result no project between the EA and the nuclear community reduction in emissions was required.
industry in England and Wales that this year our staff chose help the During the year the uKs proposed aims to reduce the impact of the hospices, the national charity for the national Allocation plan for phase ii of nuclear sector.
this fits well with our hospice movement, as the British the Eu Ets was approved by the Company goal of environmental Energy Charity of the year for 2006 07.
European Commission further details excellence and is an opportunity for us in keeping with our commitment to and a discussion of the impact of the to identify areas where we can improve community issues, each of our sites scheme are included on page 9. our environmental performance beyond nominated a local hospice to support the regulatory requirements.
Following with fund raising and volunteering We have continued to take an active regular discussions with the EA we have activities.
this means, with corporate role in responding to government prioritised the objectives identified in matched funding, over 215,000 has consultations and submitted a detailed the plan, with the minimisation and gone to directly supporting hospices in response to the governments Energy management of solid waste being the the communities in which we operate.
Among other key focus for the forthcoming financial things, our response highlighted the year.
We intend to assess our We believe it is important to have an need for a clear message from the performance against these objectives open and transparent dialogue with the government regarding the need for new by reference to new Key performance communities around each of our power nuclear build and clarity on the indicators which will measure both stations.
our station management associated planning, licensing and radioactive and non-radioactive waste.
teams and staff representatives play an consent processes.
our submission can important role in regular stakeholder be found on our website.
Low Level Waste LLW from our meetings with local people, media, operations is sent for disposal at the councils, emergency services, local We have developed policies and LLW repository at Drigg in Cumbria politicians and ngo organisations.
practices to conserve and enhance the which is owned by the nuclear these meetings provide us with a vital biodiversity around our stations and Decommissioning Authority nDA and communication route to our neighbours have identified some 15 habitats listed operated by British nuclear group and provide the communities around us for priority action under the uK sellafield Limited.
this year we sent with an opportunity to learn more about 3 Biodiversity Action plan and over 16 416m of LLW which is a small increase our day to day operations.
in recognition of our of 7% compared with the previous year.
work in these areas we have won a in addition to the activities carried out number of awards in the Bto Business intermediate Level Waste iLW is stored in aid of help the hospices, the Bird Challenge 2006 including first on site at the relevant station.
the level Company was involved in a number of place in the power station sites of production of iLW is fairly constant events and initiatives to help local Category at heysham.
We also received and each station produces typically a communities.
these included staff a Conservation Award for our work to few tens of cubic metres each year.
helping budding young engineers in the enhance biodiversity at gale Common Engineering Education scheme, ash disposal site and a Community spent nuclear fuel from our Agr organising local charity football matches Award at sizewell for our longstanding stations is transported in specially and volunteering to collect litter to help partnership with the suffolk Wildlife designed steel flasks to sellafield in the romney Marsh Countryside project, trust.
Cumbria where it is initially stored in continuing our long running support for cooling ponds spent nuclear fuel from the project.
in addition, all of our power stations our pWr sizewell B power station retained certification to the international remains in storage on site.
this year we our sizewell B power station won the standard for environmental sent 363 flasks to sellafield, compared investing in Communities Achievement management, iso 14001. in recognition with 333 in the previous year.
partly as Award 2007 for its work with Leiston of the significant impact that advice and a result of a concerted effort to reduce high school in developing an ongoing guidance given by staff at non-power congestion in our station cooling ponds, engineering partnership.
the award is station sites can have on our stations we dispatched more flasks to sellafield part of the passport to success, an and our environmental performance, we than last year, leading to much East of England Development Agency expanded the scope of the certificate improved station capacity for spent fuel investing in Communities project, in for the support offices this year to cover and better mitigation of any interruption partnership with haven gateway and all of the non-power station sites owned to future spent fuel dispatch.
and operated by the Company.
the station is continuing to support the Discussion on our performance against project by training 14 employees to We have continued to work with the environment Key performance become mentors for the engineering Environment Agency EA on the nuclear indicators can be found on page 9. partnership students.
the scheme sector plan which is a collaborative enables young people to achieve defined targets, while working with an inspiring and positive mentor.
