Corporate social responsibility ICG is an international business operating in eight countries, with investments in a further nine countries.
It employs 102 people of whom 72 are located at its main office in London and aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
ICG believes that it needs to act in a commercial and professional manner, while at the same time respecting the requirements of the companies and individuals with which it deals.
This includes shareholders, staff, suppliers and the businesses in which it invests.
Offices Although ICG is not a significant contributor to pollution since most of its activities are office based, it is acknowledged that there is some impact that its activities have on the environment.
It is ICGs aim to minimise this impact and to comply with the relevant legislation and regulations placed upon it.
Areas where the Company seeks to minimise its environmental impact are in the use of energy sources within its office, the recycling of paper and other waste and the use of recycled paper within its offices.
People ICG recognises that its employees are fundamental to the success of its business.
The Company therefore promotes a business environment that is based on meritocracy in which all employees are encouraged to develop to their full potential, irrespective of their age, race, gender, marital status, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
The Company encourages involvement through a process of employee communications, briefings by senior executives and social events.
The Companys Employee Handbook sets out, among other matters, the Companys approach to the working environment and Group policies for: Employee pay and benefits Performance management and development Working hours, leave and absence Discipline and grievance from work Diversity and inclusiveness Health and safety Compliance regulations and business standards During the year, all staff received anti-money laundering training in accordance with the legal and regulatory requirements.
Refresher training is given at least once every two years.
The Company has a whistleblowing policy, which allows staff to raise matters of concern in a confidential manner and for appropriate follow-up action to be taken if required.
No matters were reported during the year under review.
Charity and community The Company has a corporate Give As You Earn scheme and also manages a separate scheme for its staff.
During the year donations were made to a variety of charities as well as the donation of surplus office equipment.
The Company employs the part-time services of a Community Relations specialist and during the year has again involved itself in a number of community projects.
These include a number of projects with the homeless, a building project at the London City Community Farm and a tree planting scheme in a deprived area of London.
The Company believes that it is important for staff to not only give financial support to these projects but also their time and to this end allows each employee to dedicate two days a year to such schemes.
Health and safety The Directors are committed to developing and maintaining a management culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees and others while on Company premises.
During the year, no reportable accidents or incidents occurred either under UK Health and Safety regulations or similar regulations outside the UK.
Investments The Company currently invests in approximately 90 companies throughout Europe and Asia.
The Company recognises that the most significant risk to its long term value and reputation arising from environmental, ethical and social matters arises from its investment business.
Therefore, when making an investment decision on a new company, ICG takes account of social, environmental and ethical issues and aims to invest in companies that respect human rights and comply with industry standards and local regulations.
Part of ICGs due diligence process includes, where appropriate, the production of an environmental report by third party experts.
Although ICG cannot influence the day-to-day operations of the companies in which it invests, wherever possible it seeks to enable senior executives to attend the board meetings of its investee companies, either as an observer or a board member.
Through this attendance, it can try to influence the behaviour of these companies and encourage good corporate governance.
40 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts
