co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 23 Chief Operating Officers introduction to corporate responsibility At International Personal Finance IPF we have Since the demerger from Provident Financial plc, weve been busy putting in place a new corporate responsibility framework a vision of the kind of business we want to be to guide our businesses towards best practice.
To demonstrate one that acts responsibly, respects others and this, weve set clear commitments to ensure we achieve our behaves in a straightforward, transparent manner.
Weve achieved a great deal in getting where we are today.
At the same time, there are questions we need to regularly ask ourselves: how can we manage our reputation better: how can we ensure that our stakeholders understand the business: and how can we better manage our business within the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Treating Customers Fairly TCF principles?
For our customers, its a question of providing relevant products in a responsible way which is precisely why were aligning our practices to the FSAs TCF initiative.
Going further, were trying to communicate our values down through the Group so they become part of the mindset and start to influence every working relationship particularly that between agent and customer.
For the communities in which we operate, we want to make a difference in areas that relate to our business and industry.
Hence the new focus on financial literacy in our community investment programme.
We also want to take account of the views and concerns of investors and other stakeholders in the way we shape our corporate responsibility programmes and report progress against them.
We therefore intend to report annually on our corporate responsibility activities.
This summary highlights what were doing at the moment and what we intend to do in the future.
We hope it demonstrates that were travelling in the right direction.
The full 2007 Corporate Responsibility report is available online at www.
John Harnett Chief Operating Officer
