Corporate Responsibility At Britvic we seek to evolve our Environment Corporate Responsibility CR Britvics environment policy is now agenda in a way that is strategic available on Britvic.
com In addition, we and transparent.
have set clear targets for reduction in key performance areas see table.
Our commitment Our commitment, approved by the Key environmental activities in the year plc Board and Executive Committee, included the installation of new high addresses the key issues of environment, efficiency boilers at our Norwich and workplace, supply chain, marketplace Hudderseld factories, major projects and community.
to re-use hot water at our factory in John Gibney Chelmsford, improvements to our air Finance Director Common goals compressor control systems, and the Employees from across the business introduction of waste segregation and contribute to our CR goals, which is recycling in non-production sites.
guided by a Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Membership of the CR Packaging is an important environmental Committee is drawn from different areas issue and we have produced an annual of the business and includes places for saving of over 1,300 tonnes of plastic employee volunteers, rotated year-bypackaging in the year and eliminated year.
This underlines that corporate PVC from our range.
In addition, we responsibility is not just an activity for were the first soft drinks company to experts, but an area that must engage join WRAP, a government sponsored the energies of all our people.
partnership that encourages efficient materials use and recycling.
A transparent programme Our CR roadmap sets out our targets Workplace employees for the year and who is responsible for This was the year of embedding our delivering them.
To increase transparency new core purpose with employees, we have made the document freely and empowering them to get more available on britvic.
com The road map involved with CR activities.
identied 15 topics on which we We undertook a review of our current committed to make substantive progress employment policies to ensure that they We were the first in the year.
In the event 12 were match best practice and reect the spirit fully achieved and we are making good of Britvics values.
Thirteen individual soft drinks company progress on the remaining items.
policies were reviewed, renewed and The following sections identify some updated.
As part of this review, we to join WRAP, of the significant milestones in our CR launched a new volunteering policy, a government progress this year.
focused on the development of our sponsored partnership that encourages efficient 2007 targets and achievements 2007 2007 target result materials use Energy and recycling.
kWh per tonne produced 2% 9.4% Efuent 3 M per tonne produced 2% 7.2% Water 3 M per tonne produced 2% 6.0% Landll solid waste Kg per tonne produced 7% 15.7% Accidents frequency rate per 100,000 hours worked 5% 27.9% 20 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 people and building on the great work our Marketplace consumers The future employees were already undertaking in Guideline Daily Amount GDA labelling We have now developed a clarity of our communities.
was rolled out across our range over the approach in our CR programme driven course of the year.
This industry-led by issue and opportunity analysis, target Our policies ensure that health and safety scheme lists the amount of sugar, fat, setting and delivery.
The purposeful crossissues are considered a priority against saturates and salt, and details the number functional working and the enthusiasm commercial decisions and we have of calories present in each serving.
of those directly involved in delivering succeeded in reducing accidents again Labels also give the percentage of the our targets is being directed next year this year.
Our injury rate now stands at guideline daily amount for each nutrient.
towards achieving more stretching targets.
only 38% of the industry benchmark rate.
Further new health and safety Service to the consumer has been Plans for the year include publishing an initiatives are planned that will build extended through the provision of on-line CR report, detailing full analysis of on achievements in this area for the on-pack contact details for our consumer our years achievements as well as areas benefit of all employees.
helpline currently rolling out across all for improvement, an issues-led consumer our products.
education programme, developing a zero For the first time we asked our employees waste to landll strategy, investigating the what they thought of our CR efforts as Throughout the year we have been sustainability of agricultural practices in part of our annual employee opinion working on a number of brand-related growing our key fruit crops and delivering survey.
This will enable us to benchmark CR initiatives that will be launched in our an employee well-being action plan.
employee engagement with CR on a 20072008 financial year.
The first of year-on-year basis.
these, a partnership between the Really The thorough, committed CR work done Wild Drinks Co and The Rainforest by our employees this year gives us Our policies ensure that health and safety Alliance, launched in October 2007 and a a springboard for future action.
issues are considered equally against 25,000 donation from the brand will give commercial decisions.
Our new health young indigenous people in the Cameroon and safety committee will build on rainforest better access to education.
achievements in this area for the benets of all employees.
Community In 2007 we improved the management Supply chain and measurement of our community During the year we became members of investment, promoted our employee Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX.
giving schemes, such as payroll giving We audited our seven GB factories and and our matched funding scheme, made key data available through the as well as launched a new product SEDEX system, connecting us to our donation scheme.
suppliers, and enabling continuous improvements in ethical performance.
The London Benchmarking Group LBG is generally accepted as being the We set ourselves two big supply chain standard methodology for measuring and targets for 2007: managing company community Conduct a strategic risk analysis across programmes.
We have not only adopted key direct suppliers to Britvic.
LBG methodology but also trained LBG champions at each of our sites.
Review the audit process for all new suppliers.
Our work with schools has been reinforced through our school tool kit We achieved them both.
which many of our employees use when We launched our ethical trading policy to volunteering to present to school children, all direct suppliers and for 100 of our top or when we host schools at our factories.
suppliers we conducted a risk analysis.
The kit is aimed at five to nine year olds and has been made generally available through our website.
