The Board is committed to Corporate Investigated all reportable RIDDOR Corporate Responsibility and the need to take proper accidents notied to us and implemented account of our impact on the environment, changes to procedures where appropriate Responsibility the morale and welfare of our employees Responded positively to any findings Report and the satisfaction of our customers.
We observations by the local authority following have a duty to our shareholders to consider inspections and all social and environmental issues that could Continually assessed, maintained, monitored affect our business.
and improved safety performance We have developed a formal Business There have been no prosecutions by the Conduct policy which articulates our values Health and Safety Executive or enforcement and approach to our stakeholders and this is actions during the calendar year 2006. available on our website www.
Operational responsibility lies with the Employee Involvement and Working Groups Executive Committee and day to Environment day responsibility for the compliance with the The importance of good relations and Business Conduct policy lies with the Group communications with employees is Chief Executive.
fundamental to the continued success of our Group.
The Group Chief Executive is Health and Safety the Board member responsible for human Health and safety is a key issue for the Group.
resources matters and updates the Board on We are committed to ensuring the health and a regular basis.
Divisional newsletters are safety of our employees, customers and visitors published regularly to employees to ensure to our sites.
The Group Chief Executive is the they are kept well informed.
Annual employee Board member responsible for health and attitude surveys are conducted to measure safety matters including keeping the Board employee motivation and provide an additional informed at each meeting.
Our in house feedback facility for employees to communicate Health and Safety H & S Department with the Group.
The Group makes various has three H & S Advisors and one H & S benefit schemes available to all employees Assistant, who provide advice and support to subject to eligibility including a SAYE Save operational management and staff at all levels As You Earn Scheme.
A benets website has and who monitor the implementation of the recently been launched with benets ranging Health and Safety Policy and Procedures.
from retail vouchers to reduced theme The Policy document and branch manual is park entry fees and concessions on regularly updated to ensure that it accurately gym membership.
We aim to maintain a progressive equal Over the past year we have: opportunities policy to ensure equal treatment for all irrespective of race, creed, colour, Reduced our rolling 12 months manual nationality, ethnic origin, age, language, religion, handling accidents by 38% sexual orientation, gender or disability.
Maintained an ongoing training programme Individuals are trained, developed, promoted for all levels of employees in line with H & S and treated on the basis of their relevant Policy requirements aptitudes, abilities and skills.
We recognise that Provided 3,445 training days during the year everyone is different and by valuing diversity Continued to undertake regular and we appreciate that people with different extensive H & S audits of our management experiences, views, opinions and approaches systems and inspections of our branch, can bring important skills to the Group.
warehouse and ofce based activities Reviewed all audit, inspection and accident BSS and the Community report findings and produced action plans We conduct all our business with honesty to ensure continual improvement in our and integrity and are a responsible member management of Health and Safety of the community.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 14 In February 2006 our Domestic Division, allowing remote monitoring of electricity, PTS, announced a two year partnership with gas and water usage at sites indicated where Age Concern with the aim of our employees usage reductions can be achieved.
As a result raising 150,000 to provide vital support for remote monitoring is being introduced in all older people.
Several events ranging from Back sites above a certain size to the Floor in which senior management work alongside branch warehouse staff and drivers, We recognise that waste and emission output sponsored raft race, 350 mile cycle ride challenge, are our most significant environmental impact donating 1% of the proceeds from certain and are able to report that: product sales to participating in the Great North Run have raised nearly 100,000 During the year we have achieved a net so far.
In addition, support is provided to average reduction in vehicle emissions across The Women in Plumbing organisation.
the commercial eet: average 0.10 g kWhr reduction on Carbon Our Industrial Division started a year long Oxide per vehicle partnership with the childrens charity, The average 0.13 g kWhr reduction in Nitrogen Rainbow Trust, in January 2007, to enable Oxide per vehicle employees to get involved and help raise funds average 0.03 g kWhr reduction in Particulate to reach the target of 50,000.
The aim of Matter per vehicle and this initiative is to make it possible for families to stay at The Rainbow Trusts respite houses.
In the calendar year 2006 we recovered and recycled 5,711 tons of waste through an Our employees, also held fund raising events approved supplier during the year for Great Ormond Street Hospitals Jeans for Genes Appeal, Red Nose We had no prosecutions relating to environmental Day and Breast Cancer Awareness, which the matters during the year.
This reects in part Group fully supported.
the fact that as a distributor, our activities generally have a lower impact on the The Environment environment but also our proactive approach We recognise the importance of responsible when planning and developing new branches.
environmental management and the obligation to protect the environment.
In particular we In January 2007 PTS opened a Green Energy focus on: Room in Nottingham and two further locations are planned in the North and South.
The Green Minimising the use of energy, water Energy Room offers advice to make an consumption and emissions informed choice about being environmentally Seeking opportunities to minimise waste responsible and cutting household bills when produced in all sections of the business considering heating and plumbing options.
Complying with all relevant environmental Currently PTS offers a range of energy legislation, regulations, standards and other efficient products and emergent relevant codes renewable technologies.
Providing, where possible, the most efficient solutions for heating and pipeline processes Renewable energy options such as solar panels Working with our suppliers towards ensuring are considered and installed at new branches effective environmental supply chain subject to landlords consent and favourable management physical conditions of the building.
In addition Reviewing and managing our transport supply we are now using and monitoring intelligent chain including investigating the use of energy lighting systems in branches to reduce power efficient vehicles usage.
Intelligent lighting turns warehouse Where able to do so, specifying commercial lights off automatically in areas which are not vehicles that meet Euro V emission standards, used for a period of time.
a standard that does not come into force until 2009 Our reporting systems are also being developed Evaluating route optimisation software and strengthened in 2007 so that we can collect designed to reduce the mileage driven and more detailed data and develop appropriate The successful conclusion of a pilot project performance targets.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 15
