Corporate Social Responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2007 has been another year of The Workplace Corporate Social considerable change for JLT.
In response JLT's goal remains to create a to these changes, training and Responsibility CSR is stimulating, innovative and dynamic development at all levels featured working environment where talented important to Jardine heavily in the Group's plans throughout individuals are rewarded and recognised the year.
There is every reason to believe for their contribution to the success of Lloyd Thompson.
that the pace of change will accelerate the business, both professionally and in many areas of the business through Increasingly, our personally.
the introduction of new technologies employees, clients and Employee involvement is encouraged and processes.
Training will therefore with wide share ownership and continue to be very important with shareholders are all participation in share option schemes.
equal emphasis being placed on Employees are kept informed of the technical training and the development taking a keen interest in performance of the Group and all of 'soft skills'.
matters affecting them as employees by understanding what the This ongoing development of our means of regular briefings and company is doing to people will be key to our future success.
Wherever possible, the We are committed to maintaining Group regularly communicates with its minimise its impact on standards of excellence across the employees via the JLT intranet both in Group and will continue to invest in the UK and overseas.
the environment as well these areas.
Our continuing aim is to attract and as the positive actions retain talented individuals: welcome JLT is taking to put new talent and encourage employees to look at career development something back into opportunities.
We promote flexibility and encourage diversity amongst the the community.
workforce, both in recruitment and across all areas of employment, recognising the benefits that this brings to the Group.
CHARITY AND THE COMMUNITY Our charity initiative JLT-Making a Secondly, JLT will match pound Thirdly, the Group Charity Difference aims to do exactly that.
for pound any amount raised by Committee will consider the our UK staff in fundraising many requests received for The initiative focuses JLTs efforts in activities they undertake for donations from a wide variety of three ways: charity up to a maximum of local and national charities.
All Firstly, all UK staff are able to 5,000. requests are considered carefully utilise a Charity Day, this being on their merits, however, we do Each year the Group's Charities one day every year when they take a particular interest in those Committee seeks to make sure a can spend company time helping charities that are connected to large proportion of its annual a charity or working in the local the communities local to our budget is spent supporting these community.
staff fundraising activities and in As a Lloyd's Community 2007 the Group provided Many of our overseas offices are Programme partner, members of matching funds totalling more involved in local charity initiatives staff from our London offices are than 62,000. and active fundraising.
Several of also encouraged to give up their these have been supported by In the UK, The Give As You Earn lunch hours twice a week to visit the Group.
scheme enables employees to the English Martyr's Roman make regular charitable Our total charitable donations Catholic School, Aldgate to help donations in a tax efficient for 2007 amounted to 267,210. with IT training and support.
Donations under this scheme raised in excess of 25,000 for charity in 2007.
22 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Applications for employment by In addition to these Group Environmental Policy disabled persons will always be fully commitments, local business JLT remains committed to minimising considered, having regard to their management is responsible for any adverse impact its businesses have particular aptitudes and abilities.
enforcing standards in line with legal on the environment.
Should employees become disabled, responsibilities and obligations and In support of this commitment the every effort will be made to ensure that managing risks associated with Group has recently introduced a new their employment with the Group environmental matters.
environmental policy which is supported continues and, in the event that they by an intranet site which sets out our are unable to continue to work, that commitment to the environment.
their financial interests are safeguarded.
The site is designed to be simple with It is the intention of the Group that clear goals by which to measure our opportunities for training, career future success, these include targets for development and promotion of disabled the reduction of energy, paper persons should, as far as possible, be consumption and increased recycling identical with those for other targets.
To encourage staff participation we The Group is an equal opportunities have deliberately avoided producing employer and bases all decisions on lengthy policy documents and have individual ability regardless of race, instead agreed ten key commitments religion, gender, age or disability.
which are set out below and are on the JLT Group intranet site and have been endorsed by the Group's CEO.
OUR TEN COMMITMENTS TO THE ENVIRONMENT 1 Reduce the amount of paper we 7 Purchase, where practical, more The environmental performance waste by default printing, where products locally to reduce the targets that have been possible, to double-sided.
A target environmental impact related to introduced within the Group has been set to reduce our annual transportation.
paper consumption in the UK in 2008. are to help ensure meaningful 8 Encourage employees to recycle progress is made in reducing 2 Positively encourage employees to rubbish - this includes a 2008 think twice before printing emails.
performance target for a material our impact on the environment.
increase in the recycling of waste in Details of these performance 3 Print all future marketing materials the Group's London offices.
and publications on recycled paper targets are set out within the wherever possible.
9 Identify and measure our Group's environmental intranet Greenhouse Gas Emissions and look 4 Encourage the use of site and are regularly updated to introduce a targeting and teleconferencing as the preferred monitoring scheme.
so that staff can monitor our alternative to business travel where progress.
10 Seek to raise awareness, encourage and enable our staff to make an being implemented in our UK 5 Limit our energy consumption - this effective contribution to environmental includes a 2008 performance target operations with the intention improvement, both at work and within for a meaningful reduction of UK the community.
that they are then introduced energy consumption.
across our international 6 Develop environmentally sound operations.
procurement practices incorporating environmental criteria for supplier selection.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 23 Corporate Social Responsibility
