22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 8000 7000 300 6000 250 5000 4000 200 3000 150 2000 100 1000 50 0 07 0 06 05 04 Incidence rate Severity rate number of promotions on themes such as fire A number of initiatives in each of the business emissions and the fact that there are no agreed safety and general safety awareness.
In addition, areas are continuing which have a positive international protocols on the methodology or there have been a number of programmes environmental benefit.
Balers, used to compress conversion factors to be used in determining a aimed at encouraging employees to take greater waste paper, cardboard and plastic shrink wrap carbon footprint.
In the absence of international ownership of their own health and well-being for disposal, and waste segregation programmes protocols it was agreed that we would adopt the including smoking cessation, prevention of skin have been introduced at more sites.
Discussions greenhouse gas conversion factors developed cancer, fitness, including cycling to work, and have been held with suppliers to eliminate by the UK Department for Food and Rural distribution of information on nutrition.
unnecessary transit packaging and wherever Affairs.
These factors will be used unless local possible reusable packaging is utilised.
In the conversion factors are more appropriate.
The major environmental impacts of Bunzl are UK the Group is a member of Valpak who Calculation of Bunzls carbon footprint will be associated with management of waste, which is discharge the relevant obligations under the phased.
Phase one, which started during 2007, predominantly the packaging that suppliers use Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste will be to measure the Groups direct carbon for delivering their products to Bunzl, and the Regulations and is a member of the Save-a-Cup footprint i. e. the emissions caused directly consumption of fuel to transport products to scheme whereby plastic cups used on Bunzl by the activities of Bunzl to include energy Bunzls customers.
During the year the Group premises are recycled.
In Germany the Group electricity used for operation of premises and has continued to focus on quantifying its is a member of Duales System Deutschland fuel used for transportation of goods from our environmental performance in these areas.
who operate the Green Dot recycling system.
premises for delivery to the customer and for Bunzl Netherlands launched Bunzl Bewust to business travel not including commuting.
The UK & Ireland businesses maintained promote environmental education and practice In addition to fuel used for the distribution good performance relating to waste to landfill within Bunzl and its customer base.
UK & of goods, as such data is currently collected, and waste to recycling.
The average tonnes of Ireland have set up a Green Team to develop we will also be endeavouring to measure CO2 waste per month being taken to landfill in the further ideas on green products and operations emissions of third party carriers used in UK & Ireland has fallen each year from 2005, as well as staff and customer education.
connection with the transportation of Bunzls while the average tonnes of waste being goods.
Business travel will include the fuel recycled in the UK & Ireland has increased Central to Bunzls environmental programme used by the car fleet as well as public transport over the same period.
has been a drive across the business to gain such as rail, air and taxis.
During 2007, ISO have not been factored in at this stage.
The Group maintained its improvement in fuel 14001 accreditation has been attained by Bunzl efficiency of the commercial fleet compared to Outsourcing Australia, Sanicare and Lesnies.
Employees 2005, measured as the consumption of diesel To date, all principal UK & Ireland businesses Bunzl remains committed to the recruitment of against revenue, for the US and the UK & have gained accreditation, with the exception high quality staff and developing them within the Ireland businesses and, for 2007 only, the of the newest acquisitions, Southern Syringe, businesses to maximise personal performance businesses in France.
However, there continues Keenpac and Coffee Point Coffee Points and progression.
This is achieved by a to be a focus on the efficient use of fuel by Dagenham site is accredited.
Within Continental combination of structured Group development better transport management.
In the US a Europe Bunzl Netherlands, Denmark and programmes, specific skills training within vehicle tracking system has been implemented Germany are accredited.
Le Goff has started to respective businesses, performance management which has helped to reduce fuel consumption take part in the Bunzl environmental reporting processes and the provision of challenging and by reducing engine idling time.
In Australasia it is expected that responsible roles.
During 2007 the Bunzl VIP Bunzl Catering Supplies has introduced Allcare and CHS will start working towards value, integrity and performance sales training a computerised routing system which has accreditation in 2008.
North America has and development initiative developed in North substantially improved route planning and started a pilot programme for recycling plastic America was successfully implemented in thereby increased fuel efficiency.
In addition, and installing energy efficient lighting systems Australasia.
In addition a new development the viability of purchasing electrically powered as well as continuing to provide information programme, Managing Business Integration, commercial vehicles for use in central London on truck fleet fuel usage.
has been introduced which is aimed at senior is being investigated.
managers involved in the integration of acquired 2 During 2007 measuring Bunzls CO emissions businesses into the Group.
In the UK & Ireland to develop a carbon footprint has been a customer care programme WoW!
This highlighted the emerging nature to change attitudes to customer care across the of the science behind the calculation of CO2 business.
The Group aims to provide development Incidence rate Number of incidents per 100,000 employees Severity rate Number of days lost per 100,000 employees Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 73 101 7.6 74 7.6 82 07 07 07 06 06 06 WASTE TO LANDFILL RECYCLED WASTE FUEL USAGE DIESEL FOR TRANSPORT Tonnes per month Tonnes per month Litres per 000 revenue Average tonnes per month of waste materials Average tonnes per month of waste materials Quarterly average volume of diesel used in the from the UK & Ireland businesses sent from the UK & Ireland businesses sent businesses in the US and the UK & Ireland to landfill.
and, for 2007 only, France, for transporting the Companys products per 000 of revenue.
opportunities to employees and strives to promote an understanding of their service requirements environment.
In 2007 Bunzl and its employees from within whenever appropriate.
Graduates and gain their perceptions on how these across the world made significant donations continue to be recruited into the businesses in the requirements are being met.
The quality of the to various cancer research and cancer care US and UK and have a successful structured operations and service is key and many sites charities including sponsorship of projects training programme to enhance their development.
relating to leukaemia research undertaken by A number of customers have recognised the the Leukaemia Research Fund and donations Appropriate and well-timed communication to quality of service provided by Bunzl businesses and local fund raising for Macmillan Cancer and from employees is essential to ensure the during 2007 and a variety of awards have been Support and Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Bunzl continued effectiveness of the business.
These include in the US, where the continued to support Queen Elizabeths Training European Information and Consultation Forum Processor division was awarded the Spirit of College in the UK to assist in funding a new continues to meet to provide information to, and Excellence Award by Hormel Foods Corporation Customer Service training course.
Support to consult with, elected employee representatives for attaining excellent service standards, and was once again given to Leonard Cheshire, on Group and business area policies, strategy in the UK, where Shermond was named this year to support a new training programme and performance.
Some UK businesses have Supplier of the Year 2007 by The Consortium, on TV production to assist people in applying formalised information and consultation a national procurement and fulfilment business, for media jobs.
Funding was provided to the arrangements to ensure better employee due to its excellent level of service relating to British Occupational Health Research Forum involvement and feedback locally.
During 2007 both the supply of products and the proactive to support research on The Wellbeing of businesses worked on action plans drawn up resolution of queries, Bunzl Cleaning and Mobile Personnel.
to address issues which were identified through Hygiene Supplies was voted the favourite an employee attitude survey run at the end of supplier of the London Division of ISS and For the first time, Bunzl provided support to 2006.
A magazine, The Source, continues a Lockhart Accounts Manager was named a number of environmental projects which to be produced and distributed around the Sales Professional of the Year by the Catering included funding the London Remade Local Group, notifying employees of major business Equipment Suppliers Association due to the Authority Network Meetings which discuss successes, acquisitions and appointments.
successful provision of colour-coded cutlery recycling activities as well as providing funding In addition, during the year a booklet entitled to accompany halal meals in the prison service.
for a school and two educational centres to Green Bunzl was published to educate In Australia, an Account Manager won the purchase wind turbines to provide them with employees and inform customers on National TESA Star Performer Award recognising renewable energy.
environmental issues and the actions that the amount of new business he had generated Bunzl is taking to reduce its environmental and his knowledge of their products.
Donations were also made to two UK benevolent impact both by changing its way of operating associations, Hospitality Action and The and sourcing environmentally friendly products.
Bunzl regards suppliers as partners and works Lighthouse Club who support workers from two A variety of locally produced newsletters, with them to help achieve policy aspirations of the key industry sectors that Bunzl serves.
briefings and intranet communication give in the delivery of products and services.
In addition, Group companies and individual more specific information related to the Specifically the Group is committed to working employees worldwide continue to support local business or site where employees are based.
with its suppliers of products and services to charitable initiatives.
Australasia raised funds ensure that the welfare of workers and labour for Young Care, Childrens Medical Research Customers conditions within the supply chain meet or Institute and the Cancer Council of Queensland.
The Groups business and livelihood depends exceed recognised standards.
Management In the UK, fund raising activities took place for upon its customers.
Every employee is regularly meet with suppliers to ensure mutual the Evelina Childrens Hospital, the Red Cross responsible for ensuring that any contact with understanding and to give and receive feedback and Jeans for Genes Day.
North America has customers and the public at large reflects on services and goods received.
sponsored a variety of charitable events during professionalism, efficiency and honesty.
During the year for such organisations as the Care for 2007, as has been the practice for some years, Community Kids Foundation and b. r. a. i. n. child, a brain a number of businesses undertook formal Bunzl is a member of Business in the tumour research and assistance and information customer surveys to measure their customer Community in the UK and at Group level network in Canada.
service performance and rectify any issues has continued to support a cross section of identified.
In addition, senior management meet projects with registered charities in the fields key customers on an ad hoc basis to ensure of healthcare, education, disability and
