6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 60 RISKS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED A substantial proportion of Group revenue and profits is reliant We have a number of key customers whose business Business often has environmental and social impacts, both good In 2007 08 we intend to: upon business in Japan and key global licensees represents a substantial portion of our sales and bad, and we recognise our responsibility to manage these Continue to assess our suppliers adherence to our ethical A significant source of profit is derived from the royalties received We dedicate resources to these customers and maintain close carefully and with the same degree of rigour as any other aspect standards.
from licensees, specifically our licensees in Japan, and our fragrance relationships with such customers so we can understand and of our business.
The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Increase the number of random spot check visits by Burberry licensee InterParfums S. A.. We rely on licensees, among other respond to their needs.
Committee at Burberry meets to ensure that the overall management CSR personnel to ensure high standards.
things, to maintain operational and financial control over their of these impacts are given due consideration.
Increase the levels of on the ground resource to better enable We rely upon our licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors businesses.
Should our licensees fail to effectively manage our suppliers to achieve high standards.
and agents to comply with relevant legislation The CSR Committee is chaired by the Company Secretary, who their operations our income from royalties would decline.
Increase levels of stakeholder engagement so that, where We expect our licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and takes overall responsibility for CSR matters.
The Committee held two applicable, we can align our activities with the expectations Failure to manage these key relationships effectively could have agents to comply with employment and other laws relating to their formal meetings in the financial year to 31 March 2007.
In addition of our stakeholders.
a material impact on the sales, profitability and reputation of the country of operation and to operate to good ethical standards.
to this, the Environmental Committee, comprising of operational Continue and increase our involvement in leading industry CSR Group.
To minimise the risks in Japan, we have established our We are, however, unable to guarantee that this is the case, staff from our UK, Spain and US divisions, met four times and the initiatives, cooperating in innovation and best practice to raise own offices and operations in Tokyo.
although we are improving our processes to gain assurance Risk Committee, which considers CSR issues, met three times.
that our licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents A number of our licences have been renegotiated to give us improved Burberry is included in the FTSE4Good Indices.
Start the roll-out of confidential worker hotlines, both to act comply with our terms and conditions and relevant local legislation control over the brand, and more active product development is as a counselling line for workers and to provide a tool for and good practice.
Supply chain being undertaken with our key licensees.
We regularly implement whistle-blowing on poor practice.
Our approach royalty reviews of our licensees, but we cannot guarantee that they As a global luxury goods company, the substantial majority of Our 2006 07 objectives were to: will reveal any non-compliance with the terms of the relevant licence.
Burberrys products are manufactured in the UK, Italy and elsewhere Employ an additional CSR manager in Asia, dedicated to working We may be unable to control our wholesale and licence in the European Union, but as other markets develop their own with our suppliers on ethical supply chain issues in the region.
distribution channels satisfactorily advanced manufacturing plants we are increasingly sourcing from Deliver substantive training, both internally and externally, in our We rely on our ability to control our distribution networks and emerging economies where it is appropriate and provided our key locations.
licensees to ensure that our products are sold in environments standards are met.
Launch an online resource for suppliers to help them self-assess consistent with our luxury image.
An action by any significant and keep up to date with standards.
We have established labour and environmental standards that we wholesale customer or licensee, such as presenting Burberry Continue working with our appointed auditing partners to improve expect all our suppliers to meet.
These are based on internationally products in a manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning, conditions in high-risk areas, utilising the new CAPAR system.
accepted codes and are published in full on our website at would be damaging to our brand image.
We support these All of the above have been achieved.
However, we will continue legal or other constraints, we are in any way unable to control standards with a programme of independent audits, which is to provide both internal and external training on ethical and our wholesale distribution networks and licensees, the Burberry managed internationally by a specialist team in the UK using expert environmental compliance to further embed this practice into the brand image, and therefore our results and profitability, may be third-party auditors.
In the last year 100 of our suppliers facilities way we do business.
In addition, we are now members of SEDEX adversely affected.
were audited to check their compliance with our standards.
org, an online database that enables our suppliers In key emerging markets, particularly China, we are largely addition, we collaborate with other luxury goods companies and to self-assess and share their audit data with other buyers.
dependent upon third-party operators with the associated lack organise long-term management training programmes and training Employment of direct control and transparency for our suppliers workers.
In addition Burberry is investing in its The Group employs approximately 5,000 people worldwide of which In key emerging markets, we operate through third-party franchisees.
own specialists on the ground, who take responsibility for the 2,000 are located in Britain.
In the past five years Burberrys British In particular, a third-party retail operation has been developed in implementation of our standards.
workforce has increased by 500 people or over 30%, and half of China.
We largely depend upon the expertise of these franchisees Consistent with our luxury goods positioning and the demand from this growth has been in manufacturing, especially of our high-value given our relative lack of experience in this region.
During the year, our customers we use fur in some of our products.
Any animal products such as the Burberry trench coat, which is produced at we have strengthened our resources internally, and where appropriate product including leather should be produced without inflicting Castleford and Rotherham in Yorkshire.
have our own staff based within these operations who work closely unnecessary cruelty or threatening the environment.
We therefore with our franchisees to further develop operational models to enable The Group remains committed to employing and retaining the best need to assure ourselves of the origin of the animal products that greater control and visibility.
People are selected on the basis of skills and without regard we use and the welfare standards on farms.
We actively seek out to age, colour, disability, gender, marital status, race, national origin, suppliers who can demonstrate high standards of animal welfare, religion or sexual orientation.
Where appropriate, preference is given and who will establish processes to help us trace individual skins, to internal candidates as job opportunities arise.
External recruitment as well as auditing their farms to ensure that high welfare standards takes place when new skills or specialist experience is required.
The farms in question are open to third-party inspections at any time.
As the Group continues to grow internationally, more emphasis is being placed on crossborder transfers in order to ensure we In the past year we have established supply arrangements of this improve the strength of our management for the future.
One of the kind with suppliers for furs including Fox Alopex Lagopus and Vulpes main focuses of attention for the coming year is talent management Vulpes, Finn Racoon Nyctereutes Procyonoides and Mink Mustela and succession planning and a more formalised process of Vison.
We have also educated our buyers and designers about our reviewing and managing our in-house talent is being developed.
rationale for confining ourselves to using specific species and only In line with our global focus, an increasing number of employees using qualified suppliers.
attend language training courses and this is set to continue.
Operational responsibility for this area resides with Burberrys CSR Manager who is supported by an internal team and external experts.
Performance in this area is reported to the Risk Committee comprising the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary as well as to the CSR Committee.
60 61 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 62 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CONTINUED The performance of all employees is reviewed annually providing Our 2006 07 objectives were to: A cocktail reception hosted by Burberry at its New York 57th For the last four years we have changed the way Burberry ships everyone with the opportunity to discuss their views and aspirations.
Expand our involvement with universities and MBA colleges.
Street Store in support of the Kristin Zimberg Fund at The Tower its goods from location to location.
Our main tactics have been to The performance rating is also used as one of the factors which Increase the level of language training across the Group.
Burberry donated 15% of the improve our planning so that goods are more readily shipped by sea determines pay, supporting our aim of paying for performance.
Increase the number of inter-group transfers for management evenings sales to the Fund, raising $4,000.
rather than by air, and to reduce transhipments by sending goods development purposes.
A $10,000 donation from Burberry for the opening of the directly from our suppliers to our various locations therefore avoiding The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights in the Orange County Performing Arts Center.
The Centers mission our central distribution point in the UK.
We estimate that we have workplace.
Policies are in place to ensure that there is a fair and We have met all of the above objectives.
Specifically, we have is to present the finest in performing arts to the community and saved roughly 4,800 tonnes of CO2e in this way.
equitable process for any employee to follow should they have a been in contact with numerous business schools such as ESSEC achieve greater understanding, appreciation and support for grievance.
There are specific policies in place covering harassment to develop courses that support the development of our managers.
In 2007 08 we intend to: the arts through meaningful education initiatives and community and bullying and whistle-blowing.
We now offer courses in French, English, Spanish and Italian to our Have over 90% of our directly owned business operations partnerships.
staff with many of our senior staff taking one-to-one lessons.
The Group needs to continuously review its supply chain to ensure also have international secondments taking place all over the world In 2007 we will launch the Burberry Foundation to coordinate Develop an off the shelf environmental training pack for that product is sourced from the appropriate locations consistent including exchanges between Milan and New York, the UK and New and expand the charitable activity in which Burberry is involved managers, based on Group best practice.
with customer expectations and business efficiency.
Following York, the UK and Paris, the US and Spain, and Korea and the US.
Once established, the Foundation will look to efficiently Examine the opportunities for extending ISO 14001 certification, such a review in September 2006, we made a proposal to close develop partnerships with selected charitable organisations that following its application at our major Spanish wholesale site.
the Burberry factory at Treorchy which made approximately 25% Health and safety are better placed to deliver tangible benefits more directly to of the Groups requirement for polo shirts and began a period of In 2003 we began a partnership with a third-party health and safety Our 2006 07 objectives were to: the community over the longer-term.
We will be developing our consultation with the staff and trade unions at the site.
auditor in the UK to review our existing standards.
Since then, we Perform environmental reviews of our operations in Hong Kong, objectives and plans more fully over the coming months.
We also have continued with an audit programme and made sure that all Taiwan, China and Korea.
From the outset, we made every possible effort to mitigate the intend to harness the enthusiasm and commitment of our employees of our UK manufacturing sites are audited at least annually with our Extend our EMS to cover our activities in the Far East.
A comprehensive retraining and in engaging in charitable activities.
major offices and retail locations being audited at least once every Carry out further staff awareness initiatives.
outplacement programme was established and Burberry extended three years.
We are pleased to see that our overall UK audit scores The environment the initial proposed closing date of January 2007 to 30 March 2007 The reviews of our Chinese and Korean operations will take place are steadily improving as a result of the thorough implementation of Our manufacturing, distribution and retail activities can have to allow employees more time to find alternative employment.
As a in 2007, following which these regions will be formally included in the audit recommendations prioritised by level of risk and improved significant environmental impacts.
We have set ourselves priorities result, more than 120 of the original 300 employees had already left EMS.
In 2006 we carried out environmental training days at overall housekeeping.
to manage and reduce waste: to understand and reduce the volume for new jobs by the time the site closed on 30 March 2007 and our head office and three of our manufacturing sites.
of packaging: to improve our energy efficiency, and to monitor key the outplacement service identified over 280 other employment As with many global businesses, the challenge we face is to find suppliers to ensure acceptable levels of performance.
A review opportunities in the local area.
To help address the wider long-term a consistent approach to the management and reporting of health of these priorities was carried out in March 2006 and we will be issues we will be donating 150,000 a year over the next ten years and safety worldwide that is easy to administer yet meets regional undertaking another in 2007. to projects determined by the local community.
We offered a very legislative expectations.
We have already extended the auditing substantially enhanced redundancy package to our employees programme to include some of our major European retail stores We have a relatively long history of environmental management, focusing both on long service employees and the 50% of the and have also had audits undertaken in our US operation.
particularly within the UK business.
We have sought to engage, workforce who had five years service or less.
educate and involve one new business region each year and to In 2007 08 we intend to: then include it in our Environmental Management System EMS.
Employee communications Align our European and US auditing programmes.
Those parts of the business included in the system benefit from The Group is keen to ensure it communicates significant information Integrate health and safety into our store design procedures involvement in the Environmental Committee.
Here they can share about its performance and activities to all its employees.
best practice and monitor and compare environmental performance Group grows in size it becomes more important to put in place Obtain Board approval for our new global health and safety and rise to the challenge of meeting a progressive set of environmental more formal mechanisms for achieving this.
To this end we have policy and governance framework.
We are pleased to confirm that in 2007 08 established a quarterly global review meeting attended by senior Our 2006 07 objectives were to: the EMS will be close to including all of our global businesses and managers and made accessible to all employees internationally Extend the UK auditing approach to other European retail sites.
we already have numerous success stories to share from those through the internet.
In addition attention is being focused on Roll-out a new global health and safety audit programme.
areas currently operating within the system.
implementing a more comprehensive intranet service.
Work with US insurers to further enhance our health and safety For example: People management programme in this region.
In mid 2006 our 40,000 square metre wholesale facility in Burberrys recent and rapid growth requires the support of a world As suggested above, our work to meet these objectives is ongoing.
Barcelona began work to have its environmental approach class Human Resources function that can support cultural change, The health and safety audit programme is being continually revised independently certified against the ISO 14001 international harmonise and simplify HR systems and processes, and realise in line with legislative changes and the management information standard.
We anticipate that this will be achieved by the middle and support opportunities for development within the organisation.
from our US insurers has been used to tailor the current programme.
of the next financial year, when we will consider extending this The function also needs to approach the areas of employee to other facilities where it is likely to be effective.
relations, performance management and people development Community affairs From the outset the design and construction of our new state more consistently at the local level as we increase the number Traditionally, our community efforts have been relatively localised of the art warehousing facility in New Jersey incorporated of staff moving between our various functions internationally.
but unified by a focus on fashion and textiles education, medical environmental concerns, using energy efficient motion-sensitive research and awareness, humanitarian issues and the arts.
We are making headway in this area.
Our medium-term challenges lighting, and the separation and recycling of materials.
are to: Examples from 2006 07 include: Our retail stores will continue to use a number of techniques As part of our 150th anniversary celebrations, Burberry to save energy.
These include close monitoring of energy Move from a personnel and administrative function to a more sponsored the Anglomania exhibition at the Metropolitan consumption, incentives for staff, and the installation of energy sophisticated HR service.
Museum of Art in New York, which celebrated British fashion.
efficient and energy saving technologies.
Between 2002 03 and Replace our regional HR department structure with a more Also during the year, Burberry sponsored the David Hockney 2006 07, three stores in Britain reduced their absolute energy global model.
Portraits exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery in London, consumption by 23% or over 600,000 kWh.
Reorganise our existing HR infrastructure in order to improve which celebrated the life and works of David Hockney.
our services without substantially increasing our headcount.
62 63 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
