qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 34 Directors Report People and Operational Resources People Legal & Generals employees are the employees to keep pace with a fastbusiness.
As a result of our new main drivers of our success as a highchanging business environment.
partnership with Nationwide Building performing organisation.
The Group Society, we now employ over 200 The Company operates a savings related seeks to achieve employee awareness of Swindon-based staff.
Our predominant share option scheme SAYE, a Company corporate objectives and performance, UK focus, and in particular the location Share Option Plan and an Employee financial and economic factors affecting of our customer services centres in the Share Plan, all of which are approved the business and other matters which UK, is important to our customers.
We by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
In 2007, staff were kept employ over 750 people outside the UK.
Details of employee share schemes and informed through briefings by managers, long term incentives are included in the We regard our financial strength as a key training courses, email bulletins, staff Directors Report on Remuneration.
resource enabling us to support business newspapers, circulars and the intranet.
growth and providing customers with Operational Resources confidence about the future direction We seek the active engagement of our Legal & General commits a wide variety and strength of the Company.
employees in the business and we of resources to the conduct of its business.
actively seek feedback through regular Our brand, working culture and These include a significant investment employee surveys.
made over time in technology to support reputation, all built over many years, are also important resources.
These underpin the collection and analysis of data and Legal & General prides itself on the both our promise to the customer and the administration of customer accounts.
capability and diligence of its workforce, our ability to work in close partnership At present, our systems processing and in return aims to improve with a wide variety of other financial capability amounts to 1,024 terabytes of consistently as an employer.
We monitor institutions and intermediaries.
storage equivalent to storing 500 billion and encourage diversity in the workforce pages of standard printed text.
In and our Equality and Diversity support of the business and the customer Committee is chaired by Group we use a telephony infrastructure that Executive Director Kate Avery.
Our consists of over 4,000 telephone lines, policy is to treat employees without and our switchboard receives over discrimination and to operate equal 1,000,000 calls a year.
opportunity employment practices designed to achieve this end.
We consistently aim to upgrade our technology with improvements which The Groups policy on diversity includes enable us to maintain service and giving full and fair consideration to improve cost efficiencies.
This includes applications for employment made by reducing the number of servers being disabled persons: to continue, wherever managed by using virtualisation possible, the employment of staff who technology and encryption software become disabled and to provide equal to ensure that our data is secure from opportunities for the training and career intrusion.
At the same time we aim development of disabled employees.
to improve cost efficiencies and are We offer good career progression within currently reviewing the effectiveness the Company, as well as considerable of provision in terms of both service flexibility in working patterns.
Where levels and cost of a number of non business changes mean we have to reduce customer-facing IT areas.
staff in a particular area, we aim where Our UK business is based in five main possible to redeploy people within the locations: Kingswood Surrey, Cardiff, 10,067 Group.
Our efforts are underpinned by the Hove, Birmingham and London.
We are strength of our relationship with Unite, additionally represented in a number of the trade union, with whom we celebrated UK locations where we have offices or 10 years of partnership during 2007. staff based in the offices of our distribution Our 2007 Employee Survey showed partners.
During 2007, we relocated encouraging evidence that our approach our London office from Temple Court was working.
We recognise, however, to a purpose-built new building at worldwide employees that we have continually to improve the One Coleman Street.
This move was Average number of staff employed during 2007. way we recruit, manage and train our conducted without disruption to our 34 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report High Performing Organisation 23148 p028-043.
Legal & Generals performance and prospects are driven by the capability, contribution and creativity of its staff.
Sir Rob Margetts, Chairman View the webcast at: www.
com Legal & General has a highly developed culture.
Our staff are team focused and customer oriented, with a powerful sense of the need to do the right thing Our approach to our staff and our workplace brings a number of benefits which are as relevant to shareholders as to those who work here.
As a good employer, we are able to attract and retain a highly capable and committed workforce.
This brings a strong continuity which is very important to the complex long term business of the Company.
And we are able to carry our staff with us as we make changes and adapt to different business problems and opportunities.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 36 High Performing Organisation Powerful Pensions Infrastructure Legal & General is responsible for pension payments to over 420,000 annuitants.
These include individuals who have bought annuities directly from us and those whose schemes have been transferred in a Bulk Purchase Scheme.
This universe of annuitants presents a wide variety of administrative challenges: products purchased differ as to whether they are paid monthly or annually, and whether there are dependants benefits attached.
The actual benefits payable to annuitants also vary widely, particularly for Bulk Purchase Annuity schemes, and annuitants circumstances vary, with some living overseas and requiring payment in local currency.
Our administrative infrastructure is designed to cope with these challenges, and our customer-facing staff are well-attuned to the important and sometimes personal issues involved in looking after peoples pension payments.
These include dealing with personal financial data, handling the notification of bereavement and informing survivors, often themselves elderly or financially vulnerable, about pension benefits going forward.
We do not outsource this work: the personal touch is important to us and our customers.
LGIM Pioneers Straight Through Processing for Pensions For several years Legal & General Investment Management LGIM has been working to achieve a common standard across the institutional pensions market to enable investment managers and pension administrators to process transactions with each other electronically without unnecessary human intervention a system commonly known as Straight Through Processing STP.
In 2007 that initiative became a reality when administrators Capita Hartshead, Mercers and Watson Wyatt, plus investment manager Barclays Global Investors joined with LGIM to establish such a standard using the latest ISO20022 message scheme.
They have all built the appropriate system capability and are transacting business with each other using the standard which has now been adopted by the National Markets Practice Group as the standard for the UK corporate pensions market.
The manner in which the standard was achieved is being heralded internationally as an example of best practice in how to achieve an industry consensus and is already being used as a model to develop STP in both South Africa and Australia.
