qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 37 Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility customer-focused, responsible and ethical behaviour is deeply embedded With over 170 years of in our approach to business.
Our corporate strategy emphasises history, Legal & General building a culture in which we have high expectations of our employees.
understands the importance They in turn expect us to take our wider corporate responsibilities seriously.
Achieving long term, sustainable success through recruiting, retaining and motivating our people is therefore core to our CSR programme.
Tim Breedon Our Communities Group Chief Executive Legal & General actively supports the communities in which it operates.
Our commitment to business financial affairs, by providing fit for For many employees this is the most immediate way for the Company sustainability is reflected in the purpose products which meet or exceed involvement of the most senior to play a role beyond day-to-day customers reasonable expectations and management within the Company in our business, incorporating elements of by communicating in a clear, appropriate Corporate Social Responsibility CSR good corporate citizenship.
The programme itself is We engage closely with local We measure progress by regularly structured through a set of well-defined communities, developing partnerships surveying customer attitudes to our work objectives and measurable outputs.
CSR with charities which operate locally in the CSR field.
We are active supporters is built into Legal & Generals to our offices.
This supplements our of industry programmes such as the governance structure.
national programme and is driven by Association of British Insurers Customer The Company engages with a wide CSR representatives in each of our Impact Scheme and we embrace the variety of external organisations on main locations.
We facilitate employee Financial Services Authoritys Treating CSR issues.
Legal & General is a involvement through matching individual Customers Fairly principles.
constituent of the FTSE4Good and gifts, through tax-efficient payroll giving Our corporate strategy explicitly Dow Jones Sustainability indices, schemes and by supporting local recognises the importance of the existing as well as a member of Business in the initiatives.
In 2007, our total community customer base.
The embedded value of Community.
Our CSR performance contribution was 2.4m.
our in force business improves where our is regularly benchmarked by these During 2007, our Hove office was the treatment of customers encourages them organisations, while our environmental first to run trials for a volunteering to hold our products for longer.
performance is subject to external programme.
By donating time and verification by Bureau Veritas.
Employees effort as well as money, we were able Legal & General employs over 9,000 One important objective is to embed to help employees make a further people in the UK.
They are the interface CSR principles in the daily business of difference locally.
We intend to build with our markets, and the representatives Legal & General.
We do this by focusing on this approach.
on five key areas: customers, employees, of our brand and culture, and one of our The success of local links is widely our communities, the environment and most important assets.
recognised inside Legal & General as our suppliers.
We have for many years recognised that generating significant goodwill and Customers being a good employer is not only a providing an additional positive The long term nature of our business worthwhile end in itself, but also crucial motivation for employees.
Its value as means our relationships with our to the longer-term success of our an important part of our sustainability customers are often conducted over many business.
We believe that our programme is acknowledged by our years sometimes decades.
We try to partnership with Unite, our Trade annual Making a Difference Awards, make the customers experience a Union, and our commitment to which honour employees who have made positive one throughout.
This means maximising opportunities for all a particularly significant contribution acting as responsible stewards of their employees helps foster a culture where in their area.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 38 Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Environment The Company has no trade creditors.
receives an annual CSR presentation and Our CSR guiding principles require us As at 31 December 2007, the average subject-specific updates as appropriate.
to minimise any negative impact on the number of days of payments outstanding United Kingdom Donations environment arising from our business for the Legal & General Group of During 2007, charitable donations activities.
In practical terms, we do this companies was 32 2006: 31. totalling 2.4m 2006: 2.3m were by setting measurable, progressive Governance made.
Legal & General has a policy not targets for energy consumption, CSR is part of our corporate governance to make any donations to political parties emissions, waste disposal and use of at Legal & General, the framework of or organisations.
As in 2006, no political recycled materials.
These are set out which can be seen in Fig 8.
The CSR donations were made during the year.
in detail in our CSR Report.
Committee is chaired by Group Chief For further information please visit our The extent of flood claims in 2007 Executive Tim Breedon and meets four CSR Report 2007: is a timely reminder of the direct times per year.
Its work is driven by the www.
com csr importance of climate change to the guiding principles set out in our CSR insurance industry, and Legal & General Report and includes an annual review of is a supporter of the Association social, environmental and ethical risks of British Insurers ABIs Climate and opportunities.
It sets measurable Change Initiative.
These, and our performance against them, are set Socially Responsible Investment SRI out in the CSR Report, which is verified As one of the UKs largest investors, by Legal & General Internal Audit with investments totalling 297bn, Department.
In addition, the Board including holdings equivalent to almost 5% of the FTSE All Share Index, Legal & Generals responsibilities extend beyond ensuring its own behaviour is Fig 8.
CSR governance framework ethical and appropriate.
Our specialist team intervenes regularly in support of governance and ethical issues with investee companies, and seeks to Group Board encourage the application of the ABIs corporate governance code.
We also offer a range of ethical investment choices.
Group Risk and Supply Chain LGIM Board Compliance Managing an efficient and mutually Committee beneficial supply chain is an important aspect of executing our business in a sustainable way.
Legal & General Treating Customers Group 1 regularly assesses its suppliers, SRI team Fairly Executive CSR Committee ensuring that they comply with our Committee environmental, social and ethical policies.
We also help them implement a series of guidelines which we have developed to Business support our CSR standards.
For our part, Group Equality and 2 Group H&S Charity Ethics HR Directors Environment Diversity we recognise the important contribution Committee Committee Working meeting Committee Committee suppliers make to our business and treat Group them fairly and in an ethical manner.
Payments to Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions Locational Local Community for its business transactions with H&S Environment suppliers.
Payment is made in Committees Committee 1 SRI Socially Responsible Investment.
accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
38 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
