26 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AS A HIGH-PROFILE PUBLICLY-LISTED COMPANY AT THE HEART OF GLOBAL FINANCIAL MARKETS, ABSOLUTE INTEGRITY IS CRUCIAL TO OUR SUCCESS.
WE ARE AS PROUD OF THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS AS WE ARE OF THE LEVELS OF PERFORMANCE THAT THIS HAS GENERATED.
Our approach gives priority to those In addition to fundraising, the Exchange During the past year, directors and activities that are of real relevance to our also assisted Brainwave in other ways, for management of the Exchange have stakeholders and where we consider we can example making our Media and Business conducted over 250 calls and meetings with have most impact.
These priorities are: Complex available to record a promotional major UK and international shareholders and DVD by Brainwaves President, HRH The financial analysts.
Presentations of results COMMUNITY Countess of Wessex, and providing marketing are accessible by webcasts through the Our Community Programme is designed to expertise and advice.
Companys website, which also provides support charity and other good causes and to press releases, financial reports, trading motivate our people to raise money and work The Exchange has begun the search for a data and other information released by together.
Through our matching scheme we new charity partner to succeed Brainwave the Exchange.
double charitable donations by our staff.
The and will announce the outcome shortly.
main focus of our charitable activity during The Annual General Meeting is held in the year has been our partnership with GOVERNANCE central London and is the principal Brainwave, a charity dedicated to providing The Exchange is committed to delivering the opportunity for private shareholders to therapy for children with developmental highest standards in boardroom practice and meet directors and management of the delay whether caused by a brain injury financial transparency through: Company and put questions to the Board.
like cerebral palsy or a genetic disorder www.
Clear and open communication with EMPLOYEES investors: The Exchanges excellent performance The partnership has now ended after three would not be possible without employees Maintaining accurate financial records highly successful years during which the of the highest calibre with the motivation which transparently and honestly re ect Exchange generated over 400,000 in new to perform to their full potential.
We aim the financial position of our business: and funds for Brainwave.
Corporate donations to create the right conditions for people made by the Exchange were more than Endeavouring to maximise shareholder to do their best work by: doubled by the fundraising efforts of our returns.
The partnership bene ted from the Creating an environment which enables creative talent of our people as teams drawn A full programme of investor relations all employees to develop their skills and from different departments competed to see activity ensures appropriate contact with knowledge.
All employees have the who could raise the most money.
Described institutional and private shareholders, opportunity to formally discuss their by Brainwave Chief Executive David Davies as with regular meetings, presentations and development with their manager at least transformational, the partnership enabled disclosure of important information.
Great once a year which includes both internal Brainwave to scale up its activities and to care is taken to provide suitably detailed development programmes and external open a new therapy centre in Witham, Essex.
information on the Exchanges activities and training courses: results to enable various stakeholders to understand the performance and prospects of the Company.
THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 27 Hannah, aged 10 months, who has Cerebral Palsy, receiving sensory stimulation at Brainwaves National Centre Encouraging open and honest assessment A full health and safety audit is completed During the year, we received the Gold of employee performance and behaviour annually which includes advice from external Award under the Clean City Awards Scheme, through regular performance feedback consultants on new or changing legislation which recognises good practice to reduce and annual appraisal which for more senior and best practice.
There were no reportable consumption and reuse and recycle where o executives includes 360 feedback from illnesses, dangerous occurrences or liabilities, practicable.
Our environmental strategy colleagues and their teams: and nor were any health and safety enforcement and performance also contributed to our notices received.
continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
Providing all staff with the opportunity to build an equity interest in the Exchange ENVIRONMENT During the coming year, we will maintain through all-employee share plans.
We recognise that our activities have an our ongoing programme of environmental impact on the environment and we continue management and continue to work with the In addition, the importance of operating to take steps to manage this in a responsible Carbon Trust to identify additional ways to with integrity, openness and respect is and appropriate manner.
2 recognised by: During the year, we completed a full review Our Environmental Policy Statement, Encouraging a working environment in of our environmental impact across our three which provides a framework for developing which employees feel comfortable about principal sites in partnership with the Carbon and reviewing environmental objectives, highlighting wrongdoing and providing them Trust.
A number of efficiencies in energy can be found on our website at with a formal procedure in which to do so: utilisation were identied and implemented www.
Promoting an environment of equality and further steps taken to increase our of opportunity which is intolerant of use of recycling facilities.
We continue discrimination, harassment or victimisation: to purchase only green energy and have maintained the significant reduction in CO 2 Providing regular business briengs where emissions achieved on our relocation to staff are updated on business performance Paternoster Square.
and new developments and have the opportunity to ask questions of the senior management team: and Maintaining healthy and safe working conditions.
