PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 We are committed to providing a Our values secure and responsible online gaming environment.
Our position on responsible Responsible gaming gaming is clear: we want everyone who Business review plays at one of our online sites to be there 93 for the right reason to have fun.
We are aware, however, that a small percentage may try and gamble when PartyGaming is a young under the legal age limit or find that company operating in a gambling has assumed too large a role young industry.
We try to assist players in identifying when and if they may have we take a mature approach a potential problem, to help them limit to responsible gaming.
activity and to provide opportunities We know our limits and we to self-exclude.
We also provide encourage our customers information about third-party help for problem gambling.
Responsibility is Group-wide The internal promotion of responsible gaming is an important element of our business strategy.
The Ethics Committee has created a Responsible Gaming Committee, comprising senior executives who meet every three months, to implement, monitor and develop our responsible gaming processes.
The Ethics Committee adds additional independent oversight on responsible gaming and wider CSR initiatives.
In 2007, online training for responsible gaming issues was introduced for all employees.
We aim to avoid adding aspects to our games that research indicates may encourage uncontrolled or pathological gaming and all of our games are pre-tested by an independent agency prior to deployment, in accordance with our regulatory obligations.
Problem gambling As well as developing entertaining games, we also aim to ensure that customers control their gaming behaviour.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Player-led deposit limits Our values To help control the amount of money deposited in any period, when they first Responsible gaming register with us players are encouraged to Business review set deposit limits.
The main rules that apply 94 to setting deposit limits are: setting a weekly limit for the first time PartyGaming is one of the few online takes effect immediately: operators to be certificated by GamCare, a request to reduce a weekly limit takes a registered UK charity and an authority effect immediately: on the provision of information, advice and practical help in addressing the an increase in a weekly limit takes effect social impact of gambling.
Players will also not be been certificated in 2005, the Group was able to request another limit change re-certificated by GamCare in June 2006 during this period: and again in June 2007. player-set limits will be shown in the Age verification reports used by our support staff: and Effective age limits are an important part no employee can override or change of our approach to prevent underage the customer-set limits.
gaming, which some research has shown can be linked to problem gambling in When a player makes a deposit, we later life.
apply both the customer-set limits and the Cashier systems internal limits to Where practicable, we employ robust the account.
third-party electronic age verification tools to validate a customers identity.
The thirdPlayer-led session time limits parties include GB Group Plc, a recognised In accordance with GamCare guidelines global leader in this field.
for slot or video poker games, customers can set a playing time limit.
This helps On our real money sites, a player has to a player to keep track of time and know provide biographical information to how long they have been playing.
A clock establish his her identity, including date of is always visible to a player who accesses birth and address.
Then, using third-party our games using Windows software.
databases to the extent available, we seek to verify the identity of the player Self-exclusion tools and confirm that they are over 18 by Customers can activate 24-hour and cross-referencing biographical data seven-day cooling off periods.
They can against public data sources.
either activate these online or via one of our Customer Service staff by email, and they can call Customer Services if they Responsibility wish to be excluded for a minimum of six months.
Our Customer Service and Transaction Service staff are trained in In June 2007 the Group was again how to direct customers to these tools.
recognised for its achievements in responsible gaming with full certification from GamCare, a leading authority on the provision of counselling, advice and practical help in addressing the social impact of gambling.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Contact by related parties Players play at different stake levels Players or their family members who depending on their lifestyle and funds at contact us are provided with information their disposal.
Each of these factors and on resources and tools to help them assess a players overall circumstances may Business review their gambling habits and, if appropriate, change over time.
It is important therefore 95 seek professional help.
to understand that gaming patterns, while important, are only one of many Marketing components that may help to determine There is little evidence to show that whether a player has a gambling problem.
marketing is of significance to individuals Even the most experienced academics developing a gaming dependency.
in this field cannot agree on a clear However, we adhere to the ethical definition of what is a problem gambler.
guidelines developed by the Remote This makes it even more difficult for us to Gambling Association, the European safely determine an appropriate boundary Gaming and Betting Association and the between acceptable and unacceptable Interactive Gaming Council in addition to gambling behaviour.
the Advertising Code developed by the British Advertising Standards Agency.
We need to be focused on developing We also allow all players to opt out of policies based on facts, not assumptions.
receiving any of our marketing materials.
This means furthering our knowledge and understanding of gambling behaviour Customer communication through research into the nature and PartyGamings websites highlight the possible causes of gambling addiction.
Responsible Gaming section to players As well as making financial contributions on the home page.
We also promote to bodies such as the Responsibility in GamCare compliant tools to help Gambling Trust RIGT in the UK, we are customers stay within appropriate limits.
also looking to commission academic Other responsible gaming issues research directly.
There are other issues that are often raised Charitable donations by stakeholders regarding responsible Historically, the Groups financial gaming.
contributions in this area have been Intervention targeted towards the RIGT, a UK charitable We are constantly creating new and Trust aimed at raising awareness about innovative ways to enhance our problem gambling, commissioning responsible gaming environment and treatment, prevention and education, as protect vulnerable players.
For instance, well as research into problem gambling.
we have considered whether it may be PartyGaming continues to donate money possible to proactively review game play to the RIGT, GamCare and Gordon House, patterns of players in order to try and a provider of residential treatment for develop algorithms to help identify possible gambling addicts.
We also intend to make problem gambling behaviour.
However, contributions to other, international whilst this may sound like an attractive organisations that are focused on helping answer to a complex problem, there are people with gambling-related problems.
Such a process is an extremely delicate matter given the implications for player privacy and the possible reaction of players that do not consider themselves to have an issue.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 GoodCorporation findings Our values While the Group had strong responsible gaming policies in place in its established Responsible gaming businesses, there was room for improvement Business review in the newer locations including more 96 positive promotion of responsible gaming and greater clarity over customer terms and conditions.
These matters are Fairness being addressed.
The Group seeks to ensure that its sites are safe and secure.
Comprehensive Future policy monitoring of transactions and gaming Our responsible gaming policies have behaviour is to ensure our games run been designed to meet all current legal correctly and participants cannot gain requirements and to comply with the an advantage through unfair means.
relevant codes set by the regulators in Gibraltar, Alderney and the UK.
However, Monitoring also includes an ability to trace we continue to seek new ways in which we money laundering and proceeds of crime, can raise the bar and improve standards in accordance with applicable law.
Any through new technologies and services, suspicious activities have to be reported to as and when they become available.
the Regulatory Authorities in Gibraltar and Our future is directly dependent on our Alderney and the respective Financial ability to listen to and address customer Investigation Units.
requirements, as well as those of regulators, As part of our quality control process, all health bodies and other stakeholders.
major changes to our software platform Within the industry, we do not compete are tested and independently approved on responsible gaming but prefer to lead before going live.
Our Random Number by example.
We actively participate in a Generator that is used for games such as number of international associations that poker, backgammon, blackjack and work with responsible gaming issues and roulette is independently tested to ensure we have key positions in organisations it performs within established parameters.
such as the European Gaming and PartyGaming also has a dedicated team Betting Association and the Remote that investigates suspicious player Gambling Association.
behaviour to maintain fair play on the Responsible gaming is not just a policy, Groups sites.
Responsible gaming The Group has introduced a Company-wide web-based training programme on responsible gaming practices for all employees.
