PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 PartyGaming is a relatively young listed Our values company but its organisational structure is comparable to one found in more mature Employees businesses.
We have raised our level of Business review professionalism and broadened our range 90 of skills.
The demands on our employees are much greater now than they were when we were still operating in an We have a clear definition environment that sported many of the of what it takes to be characteristics associated with a start-up business, operating in a very young industry.
recognised, regarded and Building a robust and scalable working rewarded as a valued environment was just part of the employee: they are players, reorganisation.
How we managed, not spectators and want to communicated, rewarded and retained perform to their maximum our employees also had to change.
Improving internal communications was potential.
essential to ensure that everyone was clear about our business strategy and our long-term objectives.
Providing employees with a clear understanding of the corporate goals is essential for individual development and also ensures that we remain competitive and drive the business forward.
Communication The execution of the business strategy is founded upon the working relationship between managers and employees.
These working relationships are founded upon ethics, behaviour and skills.
All three of these continue to be improved through programmes such as our eight Ace Behaviours, which have been identified as being the attributes needed to succeed at PartyGaming.
They range from being creative and passionate about what we do to working as part of a team and delivering results.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Ace Behaviours Face-to-face communication In addition, we improved face-to-face Creative solutions communications across and down through Customer & Commercial Drive every level of the business.
In 2007 we Business review opened offices in different locations that Delivering results 91 brought new challenges in terms of culture eSpeed and eChange and language.
Great Communications We now host two strategy events each year to keep senior managers informed of Great Teamwork the big picture.
Information about the Making the Right Decision business performance and strategy is then cascaded to all employees.
Party Passion Idea flow Our managers also listen to and act Online communication upon ideas and concerns put forward by Our intranet has become an integral staff, customers and other stakeholders.
communications channel and, during Employees best ideas go direct to the the second half of 2007, was enhanced CEO, via an initiative that he created and by a new online Enterprise Resource implemented in 2007.
Every quarter, in 2007 Planning tool that united all of our offices.
the best idea that was selected by senior Managers and employees can now management was rewarded with a source information about any aspect of share-based award donated by the CEO.
our business through this new tool, which we have called Pi.
It enables us to Rewards and incentives manage consistently and transparently Our expectations for all disciplines across core parts of the business, including the business are high and are matched finance, procurement, product planning by competitive salaries, an annual bonus and human resources.
scheme and an all-employee share option plan.
Overall, our stated goal is to One of the biggest benefits of Pi has been create as close a correlation as possible decentralised decision-making, providing between individual output and company managers with better tools to manage performance through a short, medium and direct reports.
The implementation of Pi long-term reward structure.
has been supported by a programme of learning and development that will continue in the first half of 2008.
Bright ideas By fostering an open culture, our employees are encouraged and rewarded for developing new business ideas.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Succession planning ensures that we Our values continue to move forward with a motivated, flexible and evolving Employees organisation.
However, not everyone Business review makes the grade at PartyGaming and 92 we know we have to further sharpen our recruitment processes and our approach to career development.
PartyGamings As with any other competitive industry, executive team reviews the senior retaining key staff is always a challenge.
managers and employees on a regular That is why we have looked beyond basis.
Our succession plans are actively individual financial rewards and focused managed and referred to whenever our efforts on developing employees skills.
We want our people to improve their performance, their skill set and also raise Who we look for their job satisfaction levels.
Successful people in our Company are those that fully understand their role in Our employee base is diverse from a delivering the business strategy and can cultural perspective and also spans all age see that they make a difference.
An analysis of the gender of our be players, not just spectators of their employee base differs from office-to-office colleagues achievements.
They perform but is generally biased towards males who to their maximum potential and are accounted for 68 per cent of the total incentivised to do so by their personal number of 1,200 staff in 2007.
We are an aspirations and not just what is asked of equal opportunities employer and strive to them, or by the rewards on offer.
These recruit the best and most appropriate individuals are supported by managers employees first, regardless of their ethnicity, who lead by example and encourage gender or age.
GoodCorporation findings GoodCorporation found that employee related policies, including certain aspects of health and safety and disciplinary procedures, had not yet been fully implemented at new locations or at operations recently acquired.
These findings are being addressed.
Our employees Worldwide the Group has approximately 1,200 employees representing 36 different nationalities.
