CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR 2007 HIGHLIGHTS ImplementatIon of new CR management system InteRnatIonal fInanCe CoRpoRatIon ifc cairn india linkage programme launched in barmer 9 yeaRs wIthout a lost tIme InCIdent lti at sangu Iso14001 CeRtIfICatIon maIntaIned at all producing sites new stRategIC allIanCe agReement with heriot watt university ltIfR and tRIf down aCRoss the busIness Cambay Basin, India in rajasthan, our development activities Corporate responsibility What does key Cr Challenges are located in arid and semi-arid areas of it mean to Cairn?
as an oil and gas exploration and the thar dessert and the cr challenges for cairn, 2007 was a period of major production company with operations in facing cairn indias activities are centred transformation through which we have many parts of the world, cairn is, by on managing community expectations remained as committed as ever to our virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in which it operates, for employment and local development corporate responsibility cr guiding subject to a wide variety of cr along with use of water resources.
we aim to make a positive challenges and risks in our business difference wherever we work.
we recognise that applying in northern india, ensuring the security has a vision of its broad corporate our cr guiding principles in all activities of staff and contractors and minimising responsibility best encapsulated in the is essential to maintaining our licence to the potential for issues between security three rs respect, relationships and operate and business reputation.
cr staff and local people are the principal responsibility.
put simply, people are risks occur when any part of the business cr challenges during operations.
at the heart of everything we do.
fails to implement these cr guiding in bangladesh, key cr risks in 2007 the commitment of our people to principles and can affect the groups have centred on minimising the applying our cr guiding principles ability to deliver business performance.
potential safety and environmental will be our strength.
risks associated with our sangu our key cr challenges and approach production facilities and the offshore as cairn continues to grow, so our to dealing with them are more drilling campaign.
activities on the ground become fully discussed in the corporate ever more visible and we become responsibility report 2007 and the political and security situation accountable to a growing number of are summarised here.
in nepal has remained sensitive interested parties who rightly have a throughout 2007 and there were no voice and to whom we must listen.
during 2007, the main challenge was activities on the ground during the in doing so, we must have a vision managing the major reorganisation year.
we continue to monitor the ourselves of the way the business of our company into cairn india and situation in the hope that we can should operate in the face of capricorn.
during this process, a priority start seismic operations during 2008. cr challenges.
was to ensure that the groups existing a preliminary environmental & social cr programme would be maintained impact assessment esia has been and strengthened across the two new completed for seismic field operations bodies.
we believe this has been should operations restart.
in january 2008, capricorn secured within cairn indias producing fields, interests in six hydrocarbon licences in the key cr challenges continue to be offshore west greenland, prior to award, protecting peoples health and safety, the authorities completed an assessment minimising environmental impact and of cairns cr management system and maintaining positive relations with local performance record for operating in communities.
an offshore seismic survey is proposed to initiate 24 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 the potential impact of cr risks and the managing stakeholder expectations activities in all operated blocks.
as such, progress of our cr programmes are also our success has only been possible there are significant cr challenges to be reviewed on a regular basis by the group through building effective external addressed.
these range from health and cr committee.
relationships and partnerships that can safety issues, due to climatic extremes, drive the business forward.
working with to meeting the expectations of local cairn india has an integrated internal national and state governments and our people through to the potential control and assurance framework in jv partners helps us develop a better environmental impact.
in close place that is overseen by the cairn india understanding of the regulatory partnership with the greenlandic board.
the cairn india board includes environment in our areas of operation authorities, rigorous stakeholder three nominee directors from cairn.
and, more importantly, has laid the consultation and cr management the cairn india board is provided with foundation for strong relationships.
planning is already underway to regular updates on cr matters and minimise the risks involved.
performance through the cairn india it is vital in building these relationships corporate advisory board cab.
that we also understand the needs and Our approach to managing Cr aspirations of the people living in the cr has long been an essential part of Cr policies and Guiding principles vicinity of our operations, appreciate the way we do business.
cairn has an we have had group health, safety and issues raised by the relevant authorities integrated internal control and assurance environment hse, security and csr and are able to talk and listen to other framework in place that is overseen by policies in place for many years.
our concerned parties in order to both the board.
this is described in more group cr guiding principles describe address their concerns and create value detail in the corporate governance our fundamental values, identify the for our shareholders.
statement on pages 40 to 49. international standards we seek to apply in our operations and explain our a group public consultation and while ultimate responsibility for cr lies approach to managing all aspects of disclosure plan pcdp is in place with the board, day-to-day responsibility csr in our business activities.
which provides a framework for and accountability has been delegated developing stakeholder engagement to specific executive directors who are risk management plans for informing and consulting supported by group functional business risks, including cr risks, are with those peoples affected by our managers with in-depth expertise in managed through implementation investment projects.
each of the areas covered by cr.
of our risk management strategy.
the risk management organisation the board is provided with regular and processes have been in place updates on cr matters and performance.
a group cr committee, throughout 2007 and have regularly and comprising both executive directors, systematically identified, analysed, refer to page 34 and group functional assessed and, working with those managers, has also been in place since responsible for specific activities, agreed 2003 and meets regularly to inform the plans to mitigate business risks faced at board and management on strategic cairn india, capricorn and group levels.
direction, oversight and setting policies see also the risk factors section on on cr matters within the group.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 25 operating and exploration review continued Rajasthan, India Working with our suppliers and keeping Our people safe performance monitoring and reporting Contractors cairn recognises that exploring for and we measure our cr performance using a in conducting our business activities, producing hydrocarbons carries inherent number of key performance indicators we are committed to behaving with potential hazards.
we are committed kpis some of which are presented in honesty and integrity and seek to treat to protecting the health and safety of the graphs on these pages and are our suppliers and contractors with employees and contractors working presented more fully in the corporate fairness and encourage them to work on our sites, the people who come into responsibility report 2007. to our standards.
contact with our operations and the health and sustainability of the external assurance our suppliers and contractors come environments in which we work.
external assurance over our cr from both local and international throughout the group, it is our aim to approach and performance is achieved companies and we aim to build eliminate all work-related injuries and both through reviews by independent relationships with them and influence illnesses.
external parties and through them towards achieving cr performance benchmarking with other industry consistent with our cr policies and regrettably, three third party peers.
fatalities occurred in 2007 as a result management erm has also verified of driving accidents involving vehicles the contents of the corporate Working with our Investors operated by contractors working responsibility report 2007. we look to engage proactively with our across our operations.
in all cases, investors and financial agencies on our cairn immediately launched 2007 Cr performance approach to cr and respond to specific investigations to determine the lessons there were a number of notable investor queries when they arise.
to be learned with the aim of preventing cr achievements during 2007. any further fatalities and reducing the business ethics incidence of vehicle related accidents.
in 2007, a new cr management system cairn employs staff who come crms was rolled out by bangladesh from a number of countries, cultures revenue transparency and india.
the new crms adopts a and backgrounds bringing with an important benefit of our activities is gated process which identifies cr them different personal values.
the revenue that flows to governments requirements at key milestones across our stakeholders expect consistency in the form of taxes and royalties.
the field life cycle, from first entry to in the way we work.
our group the extractive industries transparency decommissioning.
the updated crms cr guiding principles and group initiative eiti is a uk government has been utilised to manage cr code of business ethics provide sponsored initiative aimed at promoting performance through the bangladesh guidance to employees on relations transparent reporting of these revenues drilling programme in 2007. and dealings with third parties and by governments in the mineral resource public interest disclosures.
a partnership in july 2007, cairn energy plc formed between industry, governments and a new long-term strategic alliance with Climate Change other stakeholders is critical to the heriot watt university which included a we recognise that climate change is an success of this initiative.
cairn supports donation towards the new postgraduate important international issue.
as part the principles of the eiti and for the third centre and the naming of a leading of our climate change strategy, we have year in a row, has included figures for tax professor in the universitys institute been monitoring and setting targets and royalty payments in our corporate of petroleum engineering as the cairn for both methane ch and greenhouse responsibility report 2007. professor of petroleum engineering.
4 gases ghg emissions from our production facilities since 2000. we have implemented several initiatives to reduce emissions, including the installation of high efficiency flares, third stage compression facilities and improving plant operations to minimise the emission to air.
26 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Rajasthan, India 2007 marked the beginning of a new at an operating level, sangu operations lost time injury frequency rate partnership between cairn india and in bangladesh recorded nine years the world banks international finance without a lost time injury.
the lost time lost time injury per one million man hours corporation.
the two parties signed injury frequency rate ltifr and the 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 a cooperation and administration total recordable incident frequency 2007 agreement for the joint design, trif - is a combined indicator that funding and implementation of includes fatalities, lost work day cases, 2006 sustainable socio-economic restricted work day cases and medical development programmes in treatment cases have fallen in 2007 2005 barmer, rajasthan.
both for cairn india and capricorn and performance is well within the industry capricorn the programme includes: averages last published by the cairn india an enterprise Centre to promote local international association of oil and gas ogp benchmark economic development: producers ogp for 2006. a Rural dairy development project to provide rural families with an all of our producing sites have total recordable incident frequency alternative source of income maintained their iso14001 certification recordable incident per one million man hours :generation by supporting traditional during 2007. cairn india met all its 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 dairy activities: and targets for ch, ghg and oil in water 4 2007 a Child and maternal health effluent.
in bangladesh, flaring during awareness initiative.
well intervention activities on the sangu 2006 4 well resulted in ch and ghg 4 the programmes build on cairn indias emissions exceeding 2007 targets.
2005 csr portfolio, built over the last decade, however, the sangu plant still operates supporting community development in very efficiently and produces low levels the areas of education, infrastructure, of emissions to air, as is evidenced by capricorn health and economic development.
comparison with the ogp benchmarks.
cairn india many of these programmes also address targets for oil in water effluent at sangu ogp benchmark the millennium development goals were not met in 2007 as a result of the concerning improvement in womens failure of pilot effluent management health, empowerment of women and schemes.
in 2008, the feasibility of ghg emissions universal access to water.
outside of the reinjection of effluent water into an tonnes CO e 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbons 2 ifc - cairn programmes in rajasthan, unused well will be evaluated and 0 50 100 150 200 cairn india also supports programmes piloted.
our environmental performance 2007 to support micro vendors in andhra remains well within industry averages as pradesh, health camps that reach out reported by the ogp.
2006 to rural communities around cairns operating assets and the rainwater 2005 harvesting structures project that has made access to water easier for 1,300 households in rajasthan.
capricorn cairn india ogp benchmark CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 27
