Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 96 Corporate Responsibility Overview We believe that our reputation Businesses within the Old Mutual plc group the Group aim to is built upon our desire to be meet the needs of clients while understanding the wider issues for which they have responsibility.
The Group views corporate respected members of the responsibility as the pursuit of commercial success in ways that honour ethical values and respect people, communities and communities in which we live the natural environment.
The Groups corporate responsibility programmes operate at a local level following guidelines and and work.
We express this desire frameworks that are standardised across the Group.
These through our corporate values, standards take cognisance of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC, criteria established by the FTSE4Good Index and work through the way we interact done with the FORGE Group to identify issues relevant to the financial sector.
The Group has established Corporate Responsibility with our customers, investors, principles that each business unit replicates at local level.
regulators, suppliers and each The Group is committed to observing proper practices in the area of human rights.
This has been further supported by other and through our active Old Mutual having become a signatory to the UNGC during investment in the upliftment of 2007.
The UNGC is a framework of ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment our communities and preservation and the prevention of corruption.
The Group supports them and will work to further the principles through its business activities.
The commitment to the UNGC will sit alongside the existing FTSE4Good framework that has been built into the Groups strategy and will support the work undertaken during 2008.
The Group has also adopted and aims to abide by a Code of Business Conduct Ethics.
The Code includes information on relations with customers, suppliers, intermediaries, shareholders and investors, employees, government and the local community, as well as competitors and compliance issues.
The Code can be viewed on Old Mutual plcs website and is also provided to Old Mutual staff.
The Code supports the International Labour Organisations Core Labour Standards, covering issues such as equal opportunities, freedom of association and collective bargaining.
The Group Company Secretary has responsibility for the Code of Business Conduct Ethics.
As human rights statements exist within that Code, any suspected breach will be dealt with through the appropriate risk functions and the Audit and Risk Committees that are in place around the Group.
These also enable matters to be suitably escalated to the Group Audit and Risk Committee, where warranted.
The Group does not support forced labour or child labour in any of its operations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 97 From left to right Product to Market Under one of Old Mutual South Africas local economic development programme investments, over 100 craftsmen received support to develop their careers.
Umcebo Trust Durban SA Working with other supporters, including the National Department of Arts and Culture, Old Mutual South Africa supports the Trust in skills development, job creation and access to markets.
Old Mutual plc is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, The Foundation began a three-year medium-term strategy in the selection criteria for which include working towards 2007 whose areas of focus are local economic and enterprise environmental sustainability, developing positive relationships development LEED, education and staff volunteerism.
In with stakeholders, and upholding and supporting universal addition to these programmes, the Foundation supports HIV AIDS human rights.
Old Mutual plc and Nedbank Group Limited are projects.
These programmes have continued to offer help to local both included in the JSEs Socially Responsible Investment Index.
communities, to vulnerable children and to OMSA staff who This Index measures participant companies commitment and wish to participate in voluntary activities.
The Foundation spent performance against a triple bottom line of sustainability in terms over R32 million on its corporate social investment programmes of environmental, economic and social impacts.
during the year and also made ad hoc donations to a number of charities.
Nedbank Group has also been listed on the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index DJSI for a third year.
The DJSI was the LEED: 2007 saw the start of the LEED programme, with worlds first benchmark to track the performance of leading over R9.5 million being given in support of 12 programmes.
companies in terms of corporate sustainability.
The Product to Market skills development programme was one of the largest investments, helping 126 craftsmen develop their Community projects careers.
The products made have been sold to 18 government or corporate buyers, supporting the formation of over 100 During 2007, the Groups social investment programmes supplier relationships.
Under the small-scale farming initiative, operated principally in the countries where its businesses were over 500 trainees have attended courses and then gone on to located, working with selected charities and other organisations develop a farm in their communities.
This programme is run in to benefit causes supported by the Group.
These included association with the Organic Farms Group, which has assisted education, health and welfare, local economic development, the farmers to form links to recognised supermarket chains.
the environment and the arts.
In South Africa particular A new project was also established to support entrepreneurs, attention was paid to Black Economic Empowerment BEE focusing on school-leavers and womens groups.
The Financial Sector Charter FSC targets for enabled teams to propagate trees for planting in various BEE and transformation continued to be met and exceeded communities and to restore the Ongoye Forest.
in many areas by the Groups local businesses.
AIDS Orphans Programme: Old Mutual has adopted a fourSouth Africa pronged strategy to address the social and economic challenges Old Mutual South Africa OMSA caused by the HIV AIDS epidemic in South Africa.
This strategy OMSA is committed to growing and investing in socially covers the workplace employees, the broader community, responsible business activities, employment equity and diversity, financial services and advice customers, and business impacts.
skills development and affirmative procurement, as well as The Foundation has worked with a number of organisations sustainable social investment projects and the active involvement in this area, including Heartbeat, NOAH and Helping Hands.
of employees in social and community affairs.
Its Corporate The Foundations AIDS Orphans Programme supported NOAH Citizenship programme recognises the value of non-financial in its successful application to be the charity of choice for the performance and social accountability.
Two Oceans Marathon for the next three years.
During 2007 over 5,000 orphans were supported through the programme The Old Mutual South Africa Foundation the Foundation and training was also given to over 130 people to enable is the primary source of funds for OMSAs social investment them to supply home-based care supporting orphans or programme.
At the year end, the assets of the Foundation vulnerable children.
were worth R332 million, including 14.5 million shares in Old Mutual plc.
Responsibilities Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 98 From left to right Corporate Responsibility Habitat for Humanity Old Mutuals Chief Executive, continued Jim Sutcliffe, joined Old Mutual South Africa employees building houses with Habitat for Humanity.
In total Old Mutual South Africa built five houses in Gauteng and five in Mfuleni.
Community Builder One of the 174 projects supported by Old Mutual South Africa Staff through the 2007 Community Builder Programme.
Each of these projects is run on a local level with local staff participating.
Staff Volunteer Programme: The Staff Volunteer Programme that the after-tax proceeds would be used as follows: R400 consists of the Staff Community Builder Programme, Adopt million would be retained to meet claims from any remaining an Orphan and the Staff Charity Fund.
This programme was policyholders who had not yet claimed their shares with any renewed during the year, making donations of R6.3 million.
The residue remaining after three years from 31 August 2006 to be Staff Community Builder Programme supported 174 projects, used to benefit South Africa: R300 million would be used to giving R3.2 million to the local community.
Sixteen organisations improve the benefits of certain small policyholders: and some were supported through the Staff Charity Fund this year, with R400 million would be invested in development initiatives that a total of over R340,000 being distributed to causes such as would contribute to shared economic growth in South Africa.
abused children, HIV AIDS charities, the elderly and animal welfare groups.
Care and Share Week was a great success in Masisizane has been incorporated to co-ordinate the delivery of 2007, with almost 90 projects approved and nearly 2,000 these initiatives.
A mix of representatives from Old Mutual plc, employees signed up to support them.
The Adopt an Orphan OMSA, the Groups empowerment partners WIPHOLD and programme encourages staff to commit a regular amount of R50 Brimstone and two external representatives will oversee them.
per month matched Rand for Rand by the Foundation towards In summary, the initiatives and related funding are: the care and support of vulnerable children.
The Foundations partner organisation, Heartbeat, manages the administration Women-owned Enterprise Development R260m, which of funding of the children supported by the programme and aims to facilitate the development of women-owned SMME works to address their educational and welfare needs.
businesses that create employment in various economic sectors, with a special focus on micro-sized businesses.
General programmes: Old Mutual staff, including the Group In the long term, this should translate into wealth for Chief Executive, Jim Sutcliffe, took part in building five houses individuals, sustainable home-building, access to education, in Gauteng and five houses in Mfuleni with Habitat for Humanity, and re-investment into the economy: which brought the total number of houses built by Old Mutual in Financial Education Initiative R60m, which aims to help South Africa through the efforts of staff volunteers to 35.
Links South Africans across all income groups improve their between the Department of Social Development and members financial discipline and financial knowledge: of the Gauteng Provincial Management Board were further the Ilima Trust R50m, which will aim to assist in developing developed through a mentorship and skills-sharing programme.
the ability of South African municipalities to serve their communities on a sustainable basis.
Capacity-building The Out of the Box Environmental Education Programme was and knowledge transfer will be delivered by former staff of launched in Johannesburg in April 2007, thereby extending the OMSA.
These activities are conducted in partnership with work already done in the Cape Town region.
the Department of Provincial and Local Government: the JIPSA initiative R5m aims to train people in local Masisizane: The Masisizane Trust was launched by OMSA during government organisations on project management skills.
2007 using some of the proceeds released from the closure of This is a continuation of a partnership initiative between the Companys South African Unclaimed Shares Trust.
OMSA and the Deputy Presidents Office to deepen the ability of municipalities to deliver services: When Old Mutual became a publicly listed company in 1999, a R25m pool of funds has been allocated to Old Mutual plc eligible Old Mutual policyholders were issued with free shares.
to support South African initiatives aligned to the four Under the scheme of demutualisation approved by the South broad themes above, namely job creation and enterprise African High Court, persons eligible to receive those free shares development, financial education, skills and capacity-building were required to claim them.
Since then, some 98% of the and training.
shares have been claimed by the original policyholders.
2% of the shares remained unclaimed despite strenuous efforts to All of these interventions are in addition to existing business trace those potential shareholders.
The Trust in South Africa and corporate social initiatives undertaken by OMSA.
The closed in August 2006, as required by the Trust Deed, with the intention is that each initiative should make a meaningful 54 million remaining unclaimed shares being sold.
In line with investment in shared growth, as envisaged in the Governments managements recommendation, shareholders agreed at the plans for the Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative for South Old Mutual plc Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2007 Africa ASGISA.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 99 BEE: OMSA is committed to broad-based empowerment and to Nedbank Group being rated an A performer as measured by the FSC.
Initiatives Nedbank Group Nedbank contributed R35 million to continue to be implemented to develop staff, particularly in the community projects during 2007.
These were carried out mainly area of management and leadership, and to ensure that black through the Nedbank Foundation, which spent R30 million to staff are supported in their roles as leaders in the Group.
Other support over 200 projects in the areas of welfare, community objectives of these initiatives are to contribute to the building development, economic development, heritage, arts and culture of a strong and stable society and democracy through sound and education, with the largest contribution going to the last infrastructural investments, to facilitate the entry of black of these.
The Foundations contribution was double the level entrepreneurs into corporate South Africa through structuring required by the FSC.
and investing in BEE deals, and to make direct investments into communities and society at large.
Nedbank aims to help meet the challenge of giving all South African children a good education.
Through its focus on rural OMSA has a good track record in each of these areas, having school development, the Foundation has made significant already set industry benchmarks in infrastructural investment, investments to provide better learning facilities for some of the corporate social investment, staff development and training, countrys most needy communities.
The organisation has been and the creation of a diverse workplace.
involved in the development of youth centres in both Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, which offer skills and financial management The black business partners introduced to the Company as a training and business education to out-of-school and out-of-work result of the empowerment transactions entered into with the youths.
During 2007 nearly 300 young men and women Brimstone and WIPHOLD consortia during 2005 have had a benefited from these programmes.
marked impact on the overall transformation strategies of OMSA.
These partners have played a key advisory role in diverse areas During the year Nedbank unveiled two promotional solar such as small and medium company development, skills billboards.
The first panel generated electricity for a kitchen at development, stakeholder relations, and product development.
MC Weiler Primary School in Alexandra Township in Gauteng, All parties remain committed to the performance contracts enabling meals to be cooked for more than 1,400 children every entered into as part of those transactions and these should day.
This initiative led to Nedbank winning the first-ever Grand continue to position OMSA as a leading exponent of Prix Award at the Cannes Advertising Awards.
The second transformation within the South African context.
billboard was opened towards the end of 2007 in Athlone in the Western Cape.
OMSA's Corporate Citizenship Report for 2007 details OMSAs contribution to South Africa's economic transformation, including HIV AIDS: Nedbanks health strategy focuses on prevention of BEE programmes and their alignment to the FSC.
It is expected HIV AIDS among the uninfected and on positive living for those to be available on the Company's website, www.
Prevention involves educational work, while from April 2008.
A copy may also be requested from the the positive living programme aims to extend life expectancy Corporate Affairs Manager, Old Mutual South Africa, and the quality of life of those living with the virus.
Nedbank PO Box 66, Cape Town 8000 and from the Head of helps children who have been left vulnerable by the pandemic, Corporate Responsibility, Old Mutual plc, 5th Floor, as well as those living with the disease, and employees are Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG.
encouraged to become personally involved in HIV AIDS projects.
As part of this, the company works with organisations such as Johannesburg Child Welfare Society, Lerator Love Home, Cotlands Baby Sanctuary, Jan Hofmeyr Emdeni Childrens Home, Hospice in Soweto, McCord Hospital and Sparrow Ministries to assist local communities to support those affected by HIV AIDS and their families.
Responsibilities Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 100 From left to right Corporate Responsibility Nedbank Paralympics Oscar Pristorius is one of the South continued African Paralympic Team supported by Nedbank.
The 2008 Beijing Games mark Nedbanks fourteenth year as a sponsor of the South African Paralympic Team.
Solar Billboard The children at MC Weiler Primary School in Gauteng benefitted from Nedbanks first solar billboard.
Generating electricity for the school kitchen, it enabled 1,400 meals to be cooked every day.
Through its economic development work, the Foundation directly Nedbank has had a long association with sport for the disabled, addresses another important South African national priority, job the highlight being the annual Nedbank Championships for the generation, by helping people to improve their skills.
These Championships support Nedbanks and out-of-school young people are a particular focus of the continuing sponsorship of the South African Paralympic Team, programme.
Implementation of these programmes is often in which will compete in Beijing in 2008. partnership with non-governmental or community-based organisations.
As part of its focus on education Nedbank has The Nedbank Green, Sport, Arts and Childrens Affinities supported the Walter Sisulu University in the Eastern Cape, continued during 2007.
These operate in conjunction with with a donation funding equipment for two media centres affinity bank accounts opened and run by Nedbanks customers, for its Department of Economics.
with donations by the Company based on the levels of usage of these accounts.
Together they have donated nearly Employee participation: Nedbank encourages its employees R100 million to environmental, sports, arts and childrens to become involved in charitable activities by providing time, projects since they began.
energy, talent and leadership skills.
Team Challenge is an example of this, being a team-based, community-focused The Green Trust, a partnership between Nedbank and WWF-SA, initiative designed to give employees an opportunity to win is a partnership that supports conservation projects through a share of R230,000 for their favoured causes.
Since its inception in 1990, a new category was introduced, the seven-day challenge, to the Trust has funded over 150 conservation projects throughout encourage staff to become involved in projects that could be South Africa, with over R5 million being donated by Nedbank completed in under a week.
The winning long-term team during 2007.
Projects that received support include rehabilitation supported the Simphumelele Home, which provides care for projects for a variety of species and a wider biodiversity programme.
children who have been abandoned, neglected or abused.
Projects supported by the winning seven-day teams included The Sports Trust donated over R850,000 during 2007 to vegetable gardens for a childrens care centre and donation of support a number of projects, including a Bicycle Empowerment beds to a nursery at a childrens home in Soweto.
Network, which promotes the use of bicycles as a low-cost and environmentally friendly mode of transport, and the The Local Hero programme is an initiative that honours staff establishment of netball courts and cricket nets at the members who make a difference in their communities through Diamandveld Primary School.
It supports and showcases the efforts of these individuals, thereby furthering a culture of employee involvement Donations during the year by the Nedbank Arts & Culture Trust and caring.
The qualifying criteria are stringent and the exceeded R450,000.
Among the recipients was the Jikeleza commitment from the staff member must be long-term.
Dance Project, which works with disadvantaged children in In 2007 there were 43 applications, with R390,000 being Hout Bay.
During the year the programme was also extended to include projects supported by the banks customers.
The Nedbank Childrens Affinity, which works in partnership with the Nelson Mandela Childrens Fund NMCF, aims to improve Foundation Trusts: The BoE Education Foundation and BoE the quality of life for South Africas children and youth.
The funds Charitable Trust provided R3 million of support to projects in education programmes support orphans and vulnerable children.
education and welfare during 2007, focusing especially on the During 2007, Nedbank and its Childrens Affinity clients donated Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal regions.
Over nearly R3.5 million to the NMCF, helping the fund to support R560,000 was distributed by the Nedbank NBS Centenary nearly 70 projects.
Foundation, with a focus on early childhood development and welfare.
Many awareness days and public fund-raising events were also held in conjunction with staff.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 101 BEE: Nedbank remains committed to meeting and exceeding Rest of Africa the requirements of the FSC as one of its signatories and to Namibia: The Old Mutual Namibia Foundation remains achieving the ideals of transformation and implementing BEE committed to being a good corporate citizen and to helping to initiatives under the FSC within acceptable risk parameters.
It create sustainable livelihoods in Namibia.
The Foundation tries has taken a number of steps to ensure this.
The organisations to ensure that, through mutual understanding and responsible philosophy is to differentiate itself in terms of its BEE approach behaviour, the role of business in building a better future is by strengthening existing BEE relationships, creating new recognised and encouraged.
Its agenda is tailored to meet the relationships among established and new BEE players in companys social priorities by supporting education, health and the market, and supporting emerging BEE players.
welfare and accelerating the transition to a sustainable way of life in local communities.
During 2007, over N$1,600,000 was More information on Nedbanks approach to the FSC and spent on existing projects as well as new partnerships.
Among BEE, as well as further details of the projects supported by the the projects supported were the Ekondopeko Mathematics Nedbank Foundation, will be provided in its Sustainability Report, Project in conjunction with Nedbank, which for the second which will be published in April 2008.
This Report will be year, worked for the upliftment of mathematics in rural areas.
available on its website, www.
co. za, and also upon In the health and welfare area, a donation was made to the request from the Senior Manager, Corporate Governance and Ministry of Health and Social Services to support a project in Sustainability, Nedbank Group Limited, PO Box 1144, Sandton the Tsumkwe constituency working with the local community to 2196, South Africa.
Support for community development projects included the Mahetago Community Centre where community Mutual & Federal skills training workshops are held.
To date over 600 community In 2007, Mutual & Federal spent just under R2 million members have been trained.
Project Etango, a project to convert supporting various charitable organisations, focusing on the decommissioned shipping containers into offices, kitchens, areas of education, health and welfare, road traffic safety, crime counselling centres or classrooms for local communities, will prevention and conservation.
Organisations which received receive a three-year commitment from Old Mutual Namibia support included the Drive Alive Trust, NICRO, Business Against in the form of donations and employee support through the Crime, the WWF, the SA Conservation Education Trust and the Staff Community Builder Programme.
At the end of 2007, the Namibian Foundation had assets Mutual & Federals sport sponsorship was focused on cricket of nearly N$11 million, including 5,478,000 shares in and rowing and amounted to R1.14 million in 2007.
its sponsorship of the Mutual & Federal Cricket Annual and the Annual Cricket Awards, the company has established a solid BEE: In September 2006, the Old Mutual Group announced relationship with Cricket South Africa.
The Company also BEE transactions in Namibia, which resulted in a broad range of sponsors the Annual Universities Boat Race held in Port Alfred, black stakeholders acquiring ownership of N$308 million-worth including a novice race which was introduced in 2007. of the Groups Namibian businesses.
There were three separate, but interdependent, BEE transactions for Old Mutual Namibia, In addition to its Corporate Social Investment programme, Nedbank Namibia and Mutual & Federal Namibia.
The Mutual & Federal has established a Community Trust that has transactions included employees, strategic business partners, identified three major areas of need in South Africa.
The first distributors, trade union members and their families, womens is youth empowerment, the second AIDS orphans, vulnerable organisations and church groups.
Three business consortia were children and child-headed households, and the third enterprise carefully selected from different parts of Namibia as strategic development.
During 2007 the Trust supported SOS Childrens business partners on the basis of their ability to add value by Villages in Mpumalanga and MaAfrica Tikkun in Gauteng to run attracting new clients to the current businesses.
These consortia projects supporting empowerment and disadvantaged children.
are all broad-based, have empowerment credentials, demonstrate Support was also extended to a social upliftment project in strong leadership, share the Groups values and have relevant the Western Cape.
The Group also selected strategic Responsibilities Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 102 From left to right Corporate Responsibility Junior Golf Development A cheque presentation to the Zimbabwe continued Ladies Golf Union to support their junior golf development programme.
The programme aims to identify and develop golfing talent among school children, who will in future represent Zimbabwe.
It also aims to introduce the sport to a wider base in schools, including those who have not been exposed to it before.
Greater Boston Food Bank Old Mutual Asset Management staff in the US supported the Greater Boston Food Bank in 2007.
The Banks mission is to help end hunger in eastern Massachusetts and, as part of this, it feeds more than 320,000 people annually in nine counties in eastern Massachusetts.
community partners, notably Womens Action for Development The Rotary Club of Lilongwe, Athletics Association of Malawi, and a consortium of large church groups, as active partners Malawi against Polio and the Southern Region Volley Ball to grow the businesses and contribute to the development of Championship also received donations from Old Mutual Malawi.
Work continued with these strategic community partners during 2007.
The Old Mutual Malawi HIV and AIDS workplace programmes organised a workshop for staff and their spouses in Blantyre and Zimbabwe: During 2007, Old Mutual Zimbabwe continued Lilongwe and also funded the Chibale Golf Society tournament to support projects under its structured social responsibility which assists orphans in Namwera and Manone.
programme, including community projects, arts and culture programmes and business and education programmes.
The At the end of the year, the Malawi Foundation had assets of over Jarios Jiri Centre continued to receive support, including for a MK138million, including 333,200 shares in Old Mutual plc.
project to fund the renovation of the plumbing to the centre and a Christmas party held by Old Mutual Zimbabwe staff for children Kenya: Old Mutual Kenya supported numerous projects in 2007 at the Centre.
Over Z$270 million was donated to the Centre with total donations of Kshs1.2 million.
Projects that received during the year.
Support was also provided to the SOS Childrens support included training the dependants of clients in career Village Kindergarten Project through a donation of Z$3,500 planning and goal-setting.
Through this programme over 300 million which funded the building of a theatre supporting the students in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu received guidance.
work of local villagers who care for abandoned and orphaned Old Mutual Kenya worked with a local NGO to support projects children.
Old Mutual Zimbabwe provided Z$100 million to focusing on HIV AIDS.
the Chitungwiza Harmony Singers to support them in their participation in the Old Mutual Telkom Choral Festival.
The USA choir came first and third in the Western and Africa categories Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM : OMAM remains respectively.
A donation of Z$2,000 million was made to committed to supporting local communities in need around the Bulawayo Athletic Club, a multi-disciplinary sports club, its Boston headquarters and member firm locations through its to enable the clubhouse to be rebuilt following a major fire.
The OMAM Charitable Z$500 million was donated to the Foundation for Sustainable Foundation continued to focus its efforts during 2007 on four Development programme, which not only aims to address target areas: community, healthcare, homelessness and environmental challenges, but also to empower local emergency crisis intervention and strove to make meaningful disadvantaged groups including those affected by HIV AIDS.
contributions to its partner organisations.
In 2007, the In total during 2007 the Old Mutual Zimbabwe Foundation Foundation made direct gifts of US$277,000.
donated over Z$24,000 million to over 20 projects.
Among the causes supported were City Year, Boys and Girls At the end of the year, the Zimbabwe Foundation had assets of Club of America, the Salvation Army and the United Way, as Z$37.9 trillion, including 2,222,517 shares in Old Mutual plc.
well as local organisations including the Pine Street Inn, Home for Little Wanderers, Rosies Place, Women of Means, and the Malawi: Old Mutual Malawi continued to support a number Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
of projects in the education and health sector.
Total donations amounting to MK3.7 million were made in 2007 to various In addition to making monetary grants through its charitable organisations and schools.
Donations of food items and foundation, OMAM seeks to promote employee involvement by mattresses were made to Montfort School for the Deaf and Blind encouraging employees to take advantage of their paid volunteer and Ekwendeni School for the Blind through the Lions Club of day, sponsoring company-wide charitable events and matching Mzuzu.
Donations also went to a fun run to raise funds to buy personal charitable gifts from Foundation assets.
equipment for the maternity wing at Mzuzu Central Hospital.
Sponsorship was provided to St Andrews International High School for its championship of a project to manufacture bicycle ambulances for distribution to rural areas of the country.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 103 During the year, OMAM employees lent their support Skandia to Daffodil Days, benefitting the American Cancer Society, Skandias business concept is to meet peoples need for financial Lee Denim Day benefitting the Susan G. Komen Foundation, security, with corporate social responsibility CSR playing an and a toy drive benefitting the children at the Home for Little integral role in the business.
At the beginning of 2007, Skandia Wanderers.
Employees also participated in the JP Morgan Group agreed and adopted various formal CSR Principles.
Chase Corporate Challenge and the Epal programme in which employees mentor local high-school children via email.
Nordic: In May 2007 the Nordic division supported the Skandia OMAM also sponsored a company outing in which the entire Group CSR Principles by introducing CSR Principles for the local company spent half a day volunteering at the Greater Boston region.
A working group was established with responsibility for Food Bank sorting food to be delivered to individuals in need.
Old Mutual Financial Network OMFN : The Groups US Life Skandia in Sweden has a long history of supporting projects business, OMFN, made significant contributions to a number of for the development of society.
Over the past few years, its worthy organisations during the year.
Employee gifts to charitable engagement has focused on projects that support and develop organisations were matched by OMFN through its matching the young in the community.
This is done mostly through the programme on a dollar-for-dollar basis up to an annual limit of flagship programme for the Nordic region, Ideas for Life IFL.
During 2007, nearly 70 projects and or organisations Celebrating its twentieth anniversary in 2007, IFL works were supported in this way with the focus being on education, preventively and long term, providing activities for children and health and community issues.
Organisations that received youth organised under the guidance of parents and teachers.
donations included the Maryland Food Bank, the Leukaemia The work takes place in close co-operation with municipalities, & Lymphoma Society, National MS Society, Habitat for Humanity, schools and other organisations.
The IFL organisation consists Special Olympics, the American Cancer Society and the Johns of a central unit through which projects are directed by a project Hopkins Childrens Center.
Skandia offers professional guidance and support, but also financial support depending on the objective of the The Atlanta office participated in a three-day Breast Cancer project.
Currently nearly 400 Skandia employees are working as walk to benefit the Susan G. Komen for the Cure charity, the ambassadors for IFL, devoting many working hours to activities worlds largest grassroots network of breast cancer survivors for children and young people.
Part of the IFL funding comes and activists.
Events like this have supported the raising of nearly from a not-for-profit mutual fund supplied as part of the mutual $1 billion to fulfil the charitys promise to become the largest fund offerings.
When a customer selects this offering, 2% of the source of non-profit funds dedicated to the fight against breast net asset value goes directly to the IFL Foundation.
Total funds generated by employees, and subsequently matched by the company, exceeded $20,000.
Skandia Denmark started its own IFL Foundation in 2007 based on the Swedish model.
Since its inception, over 30% From a corporate perspective, OMFN focused its support on of employees have signed up.
local organisations including Rebuilding Together, a non-profit organisation that works with local businesses and community Skandia Sweden also continued its support for the Ren Idrott associations to repair and rehabilitate the homes of low-income, Foundation during 2007.
Set up in 2002, this has helped 35 elderly or disabled homeowners.
Support was also again given of Swedens most famous athletes become role models for to the University of Baltimore for its Baltimore City Scholars clean sport.
The main purpose is to educate youngsters that and Leadership programme.
OMFN also supported the it is possible to be the best at sport without using drugs.
Beans & Bread programme, Big Brother, Big Sisters, Ronald McDonald House, the American Red Cross and the American Cancer Society.
Responsibilities Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 104 From left to right Corporate Responsibility Crisis Run In June 2007 a team of Old Mutual plc continued staff took part in the Crisis Square Mile Run.
Covering 5km around the sites of London, the team raised funds to support Crisis in its aim to fight homelessness and empower people to fulfil their potential and transform their lives.
Home San Mauricio Queen Silvia of Sweden and HRH Prince Turki bin Talal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia attend the launch of the Skandia Colombias mentoring programme with the Home San Mauricio.
Forty children have been paired with Skandia employees and through the year they will work on developing self-esteem to help, among other things, avoid the risk of drugs.
Europe and Latin America: Among the beneficiaries of Skandia Skandia UK & Offshore division: Skandia UK & Offshore division Colombias corporate responsibility programme during 2007 was gave over 20,000 to charities through employee support, the International Dialogue project, which is designed to prevent company matching and company donations of 50p for every drug consumption among children and young people.
As part of employee who participated in an annual survey during 2007. this programme, 40 Skandia employees acted as mentors to The largest recipients were Wessex Cancer Trust and the NSPCC.
children at the Home San Mauricio.
The business also provided Another charity supported by Skandia UK & Offshore was the support to the Skandia Cultural Centre, which is a corporate Saints in the Community programme, a programme local to initiative that aims to promote culture through music, painting Southampton that helps over 80,000 children every year to build and visual arts, and to financial education.
Skandia Mexico their confidence and improve their numeracy and literacy skills continued to support a large-scale project working with children through coaching and mentoring initiatives.
This programme, which is run in association with programme, Skandia UK & Offshore has donated 1,500 and Casa fide la Amistad, supports them through their treatment and raised more than 1,200 through employee support, and helps them to continue their education.
In Chile, staff once again employees have donated a total of 367 hours of their time, most clubbed together to run a Christmas party for disadvantaged of which has been during working hours.
Children in Need and children from the suburbs of Santiago.
Comic Relief were also supported with nearly 2,500 raised by employees for each charity.
Through its title sponsorship of Skandia Switzerland supported a wide variety of charities and Skandia Cowes Week, the Skandia UK & Offshore division also causes during 2007, with staff raising funds for various not-forsupports the Ellen MacArthur Trust as the events official charity.
profit organisations including Wunderlamps, which helps sick children fulfil a dream.
In Portugal donations were given to the Old Mutual plc Portuguese Association Against Poverty and Unicef.
In Poland, Old Mutual plc makes donations to charities through its Bermuda Skandia once again supported the Scandinavian Sports Family Foundation.
The funds are split into different pots: staff choice, Festival and, among other projects, immunisation cards for staff matching, ad hoc donations and a CEO selection.
Every year Skandia Vita in Italy donates money for the Old Mutual plc staff selected three charities to receive support distribution of Christmas gifts to social associations.
In 2007, through the staff choice programme.
The Lavender Trust, Habitat money was donated, among other charities, to Associazione for Humanity and Thames 21 were chosen and each charity Bambini Cerebrolesi, which supports children born with brain received 10,000.
Additional money was raised for the Lavender problems and their families.
Skandia Germany started to develop Trust through Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
The office sold a general CSR concept, with the objective of integrating and pin badges and had a Wear it Pink day to raise funds.
Donations centralising all social and environmental initiatives from midfrom the ad hoc fund supported music workshops in schools 2008.
In 2007 the business gave 2,000 to a local homeless by the City of London Sinfonia for a second year.
charity to fund Christmas dinner and shelter for 800 people.
Skandia Austria donated a total of 17,500 in 2007 to projects Staff participated in a number of fundraising events in 2007, such as the EKZ Tournament for Children, supporting local many of which received matching.
One member of staff raised community sporting projects.
Schmetterlingskinder again over 2,000 for the neonatal unit at Barts Hospital.
Many received 10,000 to support its work with children suffering members of staff took part in running events, in support from epidermolysis bullosa, a rare genetic condition that leaves of nominated charities from the Race for Life to the Great them with extremely fragile skin.
Ad hoc donations from the Bermuda Foundation were made throughout the year.
The main project that received support was the Lord Mayors Appeal.
Further support was given to Crisis, the homelessness charity, both through the Crisis Square Mile Run and the Christmas Card Challenge.
Staff also attended a number of charity dinners during the year, including the Railway Ball, a charity gala night raising money to stop abuse of children living on the streets.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 105 Old Mutual plc continued its support for the Nelson Mandela Environment Foundation, which aims to promote the growth of human Old Mutual recognises that, while meeting the needs of its fulfilment and the continuous expansion of the frontiers of clients, it has an impact on the environment, directly through the freedom through four programme areas: the Nelson Mandela offices the Group occupies and indirectly through investments Centre of Memory and Commemoration, a lecture and that are held.
The Groups environmental policy was introduced seminar series, HIV AIDS projects and education and six years ago and Mr Christopher Collins, the Chairman of rural development.
Old Mutual plc has committed to give Old Mutual plc, is the member of the Board responsible for a total 1 million to this Foundation over five years.
Support was again given to the Chairmans scholarship fund.
2007 was a year of increasing environmental awareness within This fund is run in association with the Centre for Financial the Group.
Business units communicated with employees and and Management Studies at the School of Oriental and African suppliers on environmental and ethical matters and, at Group Studies at the University of London.
Old Mutual has agreed to level, central frameworks were agreed on a number of areas support a number of students on selected courses such as the including climate change.
MSc Financial Management, MSc Financial Economics and the Postgraduate Diploma in Economic Principles.
Support began in The Groups environmental objectives are: 2007 and will last for the duration of the students courses.
to ensure compliance at local, national and international At the end of 2007, the Bermuda Foundation had assets of over levels: 4.6 million, including 3,650,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
to minimise the consumption of energy, water and materials across operations: OMAM UK : OMAM UK s corporate charitable giving to minimise solid waste generation by waste re-use and programme gave 2,000 to support a number of charitable recycling wherever possible: causes that its employees participated in during the year.
These to avoid the use of materials that may cause harm to included the Stroke Association, Oxford Mencap, the Anthony the environment: Nolan Trust and the Prostate Cancer Charity.
OMAM UK also to promote internal awareness of environmental issues held a charity raffle at the Christmas Party and raised 3,000, among staff: which was split between the National Blind Childrens Society to support environmental initiatives by employees and and the Childrens Heart Foundation.
As part of joint activities relevant external groups.
with other tenants at Old Mutual Place, employees also participated in Jeans for Genes Day and Wear it Pink Day.
Again These objectives are applied across the Group at the business this year, instead of sending traditional Christmas cards, the unit level, using best practice in environmental management.
Company made a donation of 5,000 to Save the Children.
Where appropriate, business units have introduced policies more specifically tailored to their particular operations.
In 2007, as part of a process of continual improvement, OMAM UK launched a number of new initiatives designed At each business unit, the individuals responsible for to reduce its environmental impact.
These included the environmental matters have set objectives.
Reporting is done widespread introduction of totally chlorine-free and recycled against agreed key performance indicators KPIs and, where paper, agreeing a re-use scheme for computers through a possible, these are standardised across the Group.
Annual registered charity, using an energy-efficient hybrid car hire firm, reviews ensure the KPIs remain appropriate.
Nedbank and and increasing internal communications to raise awareness and OMSA produce separate reports on their environmental usage of existing environmental schemes.
Work was also done performance.
At Group level, annual comparable data is collated with regard to responsible energy management including and disclosed to rating agencies and other regulatory bodies.
improvements in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy and to select office equipment and materials with inherently lower environmental impacts.
Responsibilities Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 106 Corporate Responsibility continued Energy use Climate change Energy use at Old Mutual sites around the Group is tracked Climate change is a major issue affecting the Group directly and reported centrally.
Where Old Mutual is the owner-occupier, through its offices and indirectly through its business.
In 2007 those responsible for building management undertake efficiency Old Mutual maintained its signatory status to the Carbon reviews and work with third parties to raise awareness and Disclosure Project, a global initiative that informs investors on reduce energy use through both education and building issues of climate change.
It used this project to communicate alterations.
Old Mutual Properties in South Africa tracks and with its business units on the responsibilities involved.
A Groupreports on its managed buildings through OMSAs Corporate wide carbon footprint study will be undertaken during 2008.
In buildings where Old Mutual is not the owner-occupier, education about energy efficiency is still Old Mutual plc itself has worked with the FORGE Group, an undertaken at many of the sites.
At Old Mutual head office in informal group of UK-based banks and insurance companies, London, facilities management has worked with the Carbon Trust which debates and addresses issues of common interest in the to identify areas where efficiencies can be made.
The report area of corporate responsibility, to produce a guidance framework was shared with tenants so that building-wide initiatives could for managing climate change risk in the financial sector.
for both business units and business functions are addressed in this work alongside an engagement framework for employees.
Water consumption The framework has been disseminated around the Group to promote a consistent approach.
Following the increase in water consumption across the Group in 2006, awareness programmes were run with tenants and The Group also supported the United Nations Climate employees to manage water usage.
Awareness programmes will Negotiations in Bali at the end of 2007, by signing up to the continue during 2008 and building managers will continue to Bali Communiqu.
Led by the Prince of Waless UK and EU investigate technology to reduce water use by building plant Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, the communiqu around the Group.
called for a comprehensive, legally-binding United Nations framework to tackle climate change.
Waste production Across the Group recycling systems are operated in many offices.
Hazardous materials Where such systems cannot be run, extra efforts are made to The Group has little contact with materials that could do great reduce the amount of waste produced.
Both the amount of waste damage to the environment.
It has ensured, where relevant, produced and the amount recycled are tracked by the Group and that it has avoided using materials that may cause harm.
reported periodically to the Board.
Offices look for ways to re-use equipment that is no longer needed by the Group and waste is Environmental management disposed of in line with legislative requirements.
Where Old Mutual is an owner-occupier, work is done with both employees The Group has environmental management systems EMSs and third-party tenants to address waste production.
As an in place at many of its sites and, although each one is siteexample, the building-wide initiative at Old Mutual Place in specific, many follow ISO 14001 guidelines.
Currently over 50% London has shown success, with the amount of recycling of employees in the Group are covered by a recognised EMS.
Data is regularly gathered and performance is compared to the site targets.
Each system has a monitoring system in place alongside it.
Data disclosure occurs at both OMSA and Nedbank through their individual reports.
Other areas of the Group run environmental programmes at the local level to minimise the impact of their day-to-day business on the environment.
At a business unit level, committees have been established to manage environmental impacts.
This allows the focus to be on local issues that affect the businesses and employees personally.
Where necessary, training is provided to support the relevant personnel.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility 107 Customers The Group operates in around 40 countries and recognises the many differing needs of its customers.
At the heart of the customer experience lie the Group values of Respect, Integrity, Accountability and Pushing Beyond Boundaries.
Operating in line with these allows employees around the Group to support and advise our clients to achieve the best returns on their investments.
The Groups businesses aim to be open and transparent in all interactions with their customers and shareholders.
Systems are, however, in place to ensure that if customers feel their needs are not being met opportunities are provided to discuss their concerns with a representative.
The handling of all issues is monitored and, if required, reported further up the governance chain.
Suppliers The Group has procurement policies in its business units that include, where practical, criteria addressing the ethical, social and environmental impacts of the business.
Businesses work with their suppliers to develop processes where these are not already in place.
In South Africa, specific attention is paid to using black empowerment partners.
More details of the specific South African supply projects will be contained in the subsidiaries own Corporate Responsibility Reports.
A Group-wide project is also planned for 2008 to draw together Group-wide procurement principles.
Health and safety The Group recognises its obligation to supply its employees with a safe and clean working environment.
Data on health and safety compliance is collated and reported to the Board twice yearly via Mr Christopher Collins, the Director responsible.
Nedbank Group is aware of the risk of robberies and attacks at its banking businesses and work continually to improve its systems to minimise the risk to its employees.
During 2007 there were no industrial deaths or material industrial injuries in the Group.
A report on the Groups employment policies is contained in the Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters.
Helen Wilson Head of Corporate Responsibility 27 February 2008 Responsibilities
