Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual shareholders, employees and customers are best served basis and employee satisfaction with equality of by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee Group ensures that a high standard of corporate feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed governance is maintained.
regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, Commitment to our customers selection, promotion, training and development policies The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees its day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the have the opportunity to train and develop according to Board, fairness to customers is a key consideration and their abilities.
objective at all stages of the lifetime of a loan.
Employees involvement Training and development The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees The Group has been accredited under the Investors in informed of the progress of the business.
The Group People scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the sponsors a Staff Forum, attended by elected staff Groups commitment to the training and development of representatives from each area of the business, which employees.
The staff appraisal system is designed to exists primarily to facilitate communication and assist employees in developing their careers and to dissemination of information throughout the Group and identify and provide appropriate training opportunities.
provides a means by which employees can be consulted The corporate training and development strategy focuses on matters affecting them.
on providing opportunities to develop all its staff and is central to the achievement of the Groups Employees are provided with regular information on the business objectives.
performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through information Equality and diversity circulars and presentations.
The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme respected and are able to contribute to the success of the and a profit sharing scheme, both of which enable business, and to employing a workforce that recognises eligible employees to benefit from the performance of the diversity of customers.
Employees are requested to the business.
co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is The directors encourage employee involvement at all fully implemented.
levels through the staff appraisal process and The Groups aim is that its employees should be able communication between directors, team leaders, teams to work in an environment free from discrimination, and individual employees.
harassment and bullying and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
16 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC All employees are provided with such equipment, Environmental policy information, training and supervision as is necessary to The Group complies with all applicable laws and implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated regulations relating to the environment and operates a objective.
The Group makes available such finances and Green Charter, which: resources deemed reasonable to implement this policy.
ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work managed efficiently by its Facilities Team and must be reported.
Accident records are crucial to the Building Surveyor effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must provides facilities to enable employees to re-cycle therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
used products controls business travel and provides opportunities for The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure employees to travel to work in various ways: i. e. that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy providing cycle racks and showers where possible and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary procedure in displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to case of any deliberate disregard for the health and encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at safety policy.
all times The Groups health and safety policy is continually ensures liaison with the local community monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the ensures redundant IT equipment is disposed of within scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical updated at least every twelve months.
98% of such equipment is re-cycled Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities serving the Health and Safety policy local communities in which it operates.
Included in the It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the charitable contributions shown in the Directors Report are Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent contributions of 52,315 2006: 59,625 made by the legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling working environment.
The health and safety objective of which operates the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
the Group is to minimise the number of instances of The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the occupational accidents and illnesses and ultimately year by way of single donations.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect local charities although no charity request is overlooked.
the health and safety of all visitors to its premises, During the last year the Group has helped many and including contractors and temporary workers, as well varied charities and causes such as: Children with as any members of the public who might be affected by Leukaemia, Well Child, Handicapped Childrens Action our operations.
Group, Kids in Action, NSPCC, Samantha Dickson Brain While the management of the Group will do all within its Tumour Trust, Shelter, Mencap and local schools.
power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, it is recognised that health and safety at work is the consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a responsibility of each and every individual associated with variety of fundraising activities throughout the year, the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take raising in the region of 23,000 for the employees chosen reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare charity.
All employees are given the opportunity to and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the well-being of any other person.
beneficiary of the years fundraising.
Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the Groups Property Services team who liaise with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
External consultants are employed and regular meetings are held with Group Property Services.
The consultants also attend senior management meetings twice a year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 17
