Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Acting responsibly Group Code of Business Conduct Corporate Responsibility CR is fundamental to how Prudentials Group Code of Business Conduct the Code Prudential operates and as a philosophy is firmly embedded sets out the ethical standards the Board requires of itself, in the business.
its employees, agents and others working on behalf of the Prudential recognises that its stakeholders, including its Group, in their dealings with employees, customers, customers, employees, shareholders and the communities shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community around its businesses, increasingly support those companies and the environment.
This policy is in force across the Group that define and exhibit sound values around trust, ethics and compliance by all business units is mandatory.
The Code and environmental responsibility.
These values have been is published both internally on the Group Head Office GHO fundamental to Prudential since its foundation 160 years ago.
intranet and externally on the Prudential website.
It is also Prudential also believes that its performance in key areas integrated within the Group Governance Manual and is of conduct such as corporate governance, environmental covered by the annual compliance certification process.
management and employment practices can have a significant In 2007, the Code was revised to incorporate a clause on and positive impact on the Groups financial performance.
anti-money laundering and financial crime.
This is now Prudentials main focus in 2007 was to ensure that its CR available on Prudentials website at www.
co. uk strategy continued to align with its business objectives and with its stakeholder concerns.
Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder engagement enables employees and relevant Management and policy external groups to help shape what Prudential does and ensure The Groups internal control processes are detailed in the that their reasonable expectations are translated into business Group Governance Manual.
The manual includes the Group value.
This means listening to and working with our stakeholders Code of Business Conduct, its CR Policy and its Health and and being very clear about our intentions and priorities.
While business units are required to establish To obtain feedback from our stakeholders and to ensure any additional processes required for compliance with local our brand values are maintained, Prudential conducts periodic statutory and regulatory requirements, the Groups policies surveys on a range of topics such as: how the Company is often go further than local domestic legislative requirements.
perceived: what it does well, and where it could improve.
The manual is itself supported by the Group Risk Framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide Improving financial capability philosophy and approach to risk management.
The Groups The Groups core financial education programme remains risk categorisation encompasses all of the principles in the focused on the need to play our part in enabling consumers to Group Code of Business Conduct.
Risks are assessed against make the right decisions for their individual savings financial non-financial impacts such as the customer experience, needs.
Such decisions range from debt management to statutory and regulatory requirements and, not least, savings.
Informing and empowering consumers to make reputation and brand.
such decisions will, Prudential believes, build better and more Prudentials Group Finance Director, Philip Broadley, permanent relationships between consumers and providers.
has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and Prudential began developing its Financial Capability ethical risk management.
The Board discusses Prudentials programme in the United Kingdom in 2001.
Seven years performance on these areas at least once a year.
The Board later, Prudential is seeing significant continued progress, also annually reviews and approves Prudentials CR report both in the UK and, increasingly internationally.
In the UK, via partnerships with such diverse organisations Below the Board, the Corporate Responsibility Committee as Citizens Advice: the Personal Finance Education Group is a specialist Group-wide committee chaired by the Group pfeg : Specialist Schools and Academies Trust and National Finance Director.
It is responsible for reviewing business Institute of Adult Continuing Education, thousands of adults conduct and social and environmental policy and ensures and children are now benefiting from learning how to make consistency of approach across the Groups international decisions that will have a profound effect on their financial businesses.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in Prudential extended its initiative to Asia in 2004, with an Group Head Office GHO, develops Prudentials CR strategy, innovative programme called Investing in Your Future, which provides training across the Group, and works closely with focuses on women, who are often responsible for planning individual business units to provide advice, ensuring that the their familys financial needs.
This was first launched in Groups core values are consistently maintained.
The CR team China and rolled out in Vietnam in 2005 and to India in 2006. also assists with the development and adaptation of Group-wide To date, more than 14,400 women have graduated from the initiatives so that they not only fit the overall Group principles programme in Asia.
but are also adapted to meet local needs.
81 Corporate responsibility review continued Investing in our communities Employees In 2007, Prudential invested 4.9 million in a wide range of We strive to create an environment in Prudential that attracts projects around its business, supporting education, welfare and retains the right people those who are committed and and environmental initiatives.
This total includes the significant able to deliver top performance for our customers and contribution made by many of the employees around the shareholders.
We understand that to support our aim of being Group through volunteering, often linked with professional a leading international retail financial services company we need skills development.
It also includes direct donations to to have the right people in the right number at the right time.
Our key driver in Human Resources HR is to deliver the Prudential recognises that many employees already make leaders and leadership the Prudential Group needs now and a significant contribution to charities as volunteers in their own into the future.
Our HR Strategy is to achieve this by focusing free time.
The Chairmans Award was set up to recognise this on five key challenges: considerable involvement in the local community and to give all the Groups employees the opportunity to get involved Getting the right people into the business.
with a local charitable project by increasing the value of the Building and rewarding performance.
community support they offer through additional contributions.
The charities that Prudential supports were selected Developing credible successors.
following a Group-wide survey of its employees, which Developing an organisation that works.
identified a preference for projects that address the needs of children and the elderly within their local community.
Prudential Employee engagement has identified sustainable projects which, where possible, We recognise that key to the success of our business is having have education at their core.
This lies at the heart of our CR engaged and committed staff.
We believe that effective programme to raise levels of financial capability worldwide.
communication is invaluable in achieving this goal.
Each of our In 2007, over 2,000 employees registered to volunteer business units has its own intranet site which is used to keep and The Chairmans Award supported over 50 projects around staff updated on the performance of the business and other the world.
Similarly, Jackson National Life Insurance Company relevant issues.
They also provide staff with an opportunity Jackson formed the Jackson National Community Fund to pose questions to their business Chief Executive.
Annually JNCF and Jackson in Action, an employee volunteering the Group Chief Executive hosts a conference for our top programme.
In its inaugural year, JNCF and the Jackson 100 people Group Leadership Team to provide direction in Action programme donated more than US$1 million in on the strategic intent of the Group and help them to fulfil corporate sponsorships, in-kind donations, and donation their business roles within the context of the requirements matches to charitable organisations that benefit children of the Group.
Jacksons employees have also shared more There are also a number of employee consultation forums, than 2,250 hours of their time with the community.
such as the M&G staff Consultative Committee and the UK Insurance Operations Employee Forum.
This gives employees an Responsible Investment RI opportunity to express their views and discuss issues of concern.
M&Gs approach to responsible investment RI is set out in Employee surveys are an effective way of gauging the the booklet Issues Arising from Share Ownership, available opinions and level of satisfaction of our employees.
RI has focused principally on our business units run surveys, for example, Jackson National equity markets.
However, with around 19.3 billion as at Life has conducted an employee satisfaction survey in its Denver 31 December 2007 of funds under management, PRUPIM, office for the last few years and has seen an increase in employee is one of the UKs largest commercial property investment satisfaction over this period.
In 2007, Jackson conducted an managers and accounts for over 75 per cent of Prudentials employee satisfaction survey in its Lansing office and has direct environmental impact in the UK.
Through participation established a number of task forces to address concerns that in the Institutional Investors Group on climate change and its employees raised in the survey.
Jackson also conducted an participation on the property working group of the United employee satisfaction survey in its affiliated network of four Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNEPFI, independent broker-dealers, National Planning Holdings.
PRUPIM is creating awareness of the implications of climate The survey identified that career development was a priority change for property investment and how Prudential can for its employees.
To address this, an online career exploration constructively address this important issue.
and development tool was developed.
The online tool delves In 2007, PRUPIM set up an innovative project called the further into career development with participants completing Improver Portfolio to examine ways it can reduce a typical self-assessments and documenting their career goals while property portfolios carbon footprint while maintaining or even aligning their activities with opportunities for growth within enhancing investment returns.
The Improver Portfolio consists the Jackson network.
of 25 PRUPIM-managed properties covering all sectors.
82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review As part of our reward practices we believe it is important to Within Prudential there is an array of different learning and enable employees to share in the success of the Group through development activities which take place and which are readily share ownership.
In the UK we operate two all employee share available to employees.
For example, M&G meets employees plans: a share investment plan and a save as you earn scheme.
individual learning needs through online training, one-to-one Fifty three per cent of eligible employees in the UK participate coaching and more traditional classroom delivery.
Prudential in the save as you earn scheme and nine per cent in the share UK has developed an online portal Learning Space, which investment plan.
In Asia we operate two save as you earn enables staff to access relevant learning for their personal and schemes similar to the UK scheme: one for employees and professional development.
Twenty-one per cent of eligible employees and In Asia, employee education is provided across the Groups 15 per cent of eligible agents participate in these schemes.
Asian markets through PRUuniversity, which is available to all staff and is offered in a number of languages.
Programmes Diversity covering management, leadership, technical and business We strive to ensure that Prudential employees work in an skills as well as a comprehensive range of self-improvement environment where everyone is respected and treated equally.
materials including language courses are available with many We believe that our workforce should represent the diversity being endorsed by external learning institutions.
We fully recognise the value that a We see the quality of our people as a key component of our diverse workforce brings to our organisation.
It is Group policy success and will continue to invest in both short and long-term to give full and fair consideration and encouragement to the development activity over the coming years.
employment of applicants with suitable aptitudes and abilities, and to continuing the employment of staff who become Working together disabled, and to providing training and career development To support the Groups ambitions it is important that the HR opportunities to disabled employees.
teams maintain a consistent approach to our people agenda In 2007, we were featured in the UK Times newspapers across the Group through having a shared strategy and by Top 50 places for women to work and 13 per cent of our Group working together on joint projects.
To effect this the worldwide Leadership Team are women.
The majority of our business is leadership team of the HR function meets regularly throughout outside the UK.
In the areas where we operate, we recognise the year and the senior professionals worldwide meet in the importance of hiring and developing individuals from the function groups quarterly and as a senior team annually.
In our Asia business 82 per cent of senior However, within our diverse organisation we recognise that managers are recruited from the local workforce.
a one size fits all approach would not be appropriate therefore In the UK, we are a founding member of Race for individual business units need to assess the needs of their Opportunity and are also members of Opportunity Now, the business and use the relevant parts of the tools and processes Employee Forum on Age and the Employee Forum on Disability.
which are developed to support their individual business.
Training and development Customers Prudential has a long history of success from its early roots Prudential has approximately 10 million customers in Asia, in the UK right through to todays international, diverse and over three million policies and contracts in force across the innovative business.
Our continued success depends on US through Jackson, and over seven million customers in the investing in people today and developing the next generation UK through Prudential UK.
160 years after its foundation, of leadership.
Prudential remains committed to providing a high level of To deliver the Leaders and Leadership that Prudential customer service, communicating openly with customers, needs both now and into the future, we undertake an annual providing clear information and to monitoring levels of review of our talent across the Group, identifying, developing satisfaction.
and rewarding those people who will enable us to fulfil the In the UK, the financial services industry is working with strategic options we want to consider.
the UK regulator, Government and consumers to improve In 2007, we implemented a series of Group-wide the way they treat customers.
Prudential UK has signed up management development programmes to assess senior to the Association of British Insurers ABI Customer Impact talent within the business and identify the development activity Scheme.
This Scheme is part of the industrys commitment to they need to be credible successors to future leadership roles.
continuously build on customers experiences, and Prudential These programmes help us benchmark our best people in will participate in an annual customer survey, to measure a consistent way and will support the movement of senior changes in its customers experiences and attitudes.
Jackson measures its customer service quality through Also in 2007, we introduced the Momentum Programme: annual benchmarking surveys.
Prudential Corporation Asia a Group-wide initiative designed to identify high-potential has also developed a regional survey, to assess the likelihood individuals early in their careers and provide them with of its customers recommending Prudential Corporation Asia stretching opportunities to grow and develop the skills needed to their family and friends.
to manage an international business.
This programme is open to both internal and external candidates and has attracted applicants from across the world.
83 Corporate responsibility review continued Environment sustainable development Donations Protecting the environment is essential for the quality of life Prudential is committed to supporting the communities of current and future generations.
The challenge is to combine where it is an employer.
In 2007, the Group spent 4.9 million continuing economic growth with long-term sustainable in support of its various communities.
Prudential is committed to ensuring that its charitable organisations amounted to 3.1 million, of which policies and business actions promote the consideration of approximately 2.2 million came from EU operations.
This is broken down as follows: Education 1,175,000: In 2007, Prudential became one of 38 companies from the Social and Welfare 611,000: Environment and Regeneration financial services sector to endorse the ClimateWise principles.
86,000: Cultural Activities 96,000 and Staff Volunteering The principles have been developed by leading global 228,000.
The aggregate figure for charitable donations from insurers, reinsurers, brokers and asset managers to promote Prudentials non-EU subsidiaries Jackson National Life positive action on climate change.
They will enable companies Insurance Company and Prudential Corporation Asia to build climate change into their business operations amounted to 0.9 million.
It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political Under the European Union Energy Performance of parties nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of Buildings Directive, Energy Performance Certificates EPCs those expressions as defined in the UK Political Parties, Elections will be required for any building that is constructed, sold, or and Referendums Act 2000, and the Group did not make any rented.
EPCs will rate the energy performance of a building, such donations or incur any such expenditure in 2007. enabling both property investors and prospective occupiers Further information can be found in Acting Responsibly, to consider energy efficiency ratings and levels of carbon the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 8, accessed emissions.
Prudential will be introducing EPCs, initially in the at www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr Hard copies of UK, for its commercial investment property portfolio and its the report are available from the Groups CR team: Laurence occupied property portfolio.
Prudential will implement the Pountney Hill, London EC4R 0HH.
Tel: 020 7548 3706. directive elsewhere in accordance with national regulations.
In the US, Jackson has carefully monitored and worked to minimise any negative environmental impact since it moved to its current headquarters in 2000, working with state and local authorities on new projects which protect the environment.
Supply chain management Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental and economic impacts go beyond the products and services it supplies to include the performance of its suppliers and contractors.
It is therefore Prudentials policy to work in partnership with its suppliers who operate with policies and procedures consistent with the standards set out in its Group Code of Business Conduct and to help them reduce their impact on the environment.
Procurement practices in Prudential UK have been successfully accredited with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply certification, which is an industry benchmark of recognised good practice.
84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance Corporate governance 86 Board of directors 89 Corporate governance report 85
