Corporate responsibility report Our social and environmental policy aims to ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in all aspects of our activities.
The Social & Environmental Committee SEC oversees the continual development and implementation of the Groups environmental, social and community policies.
Through this work, the SEC is also able to identify and communicate any potential areas of non-financial risk.
The SEC has responsibility for ongoing development of the social and environmental policy framework, and its implementation, improvement, management and monitoring.
The Committee is chaired by the Groups chief executive: it meets on a quarterly basis and reports to the Board.
The implementation of the social and environmental policy is managed on a day-to-day basis by committee members and a network of site-based personnel.
During 2007, we were pleased to see that our efforts in addressing social, environmental and ethical challenges continued to be recognised by the FTSE4Good policy committee, and that the Company remains a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Socially responsible investment SRI We acknowledge that Rathbones most significant social and environmental impacts arise indirectly as a result of its investment activities.
While the primary consideration is to maximise risk-adjusted returns to clients, we recognise that non-financial considerations can impact the long-term value of companies.
Although general investment activities are not covered by a formal Socially Responsible Investment SRI policy, social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account for specific mandates throughout the Group, but particularly by our Bristol-based specialist ethical investment service, Rathbone Greenbank Investments.
During 2007, the Group continued to implement its policy on proxy voting, which covers all companies in the FTSE 350 and those where it holds 3% or more of the issued share capital with the exception of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
In 2007, Rathbones participated as a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP fifth request for information from the worlds largest companies about their greenhouse gas emissions, together with the risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
Along with other institutional investors, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is lending its support to the sixth iteration of this project in February 2008.
This year, financial research firm Innovest rated firms participating in the CDP according to their net carbon exposure across the various regulatory frameworks in which they operate.
For the FTSE 350, a ranking was compiled based on respondents carbon intensity their direct and indirect emissions per unit of turnover.
Based on its submission, Rathbone Brothers plc was ranked tenth in the list of Least Carbon Intensive FTSE 350 companies.
Environmental policy Rathbones aims to reduce the environmental impact of its operational activities through a reduction in consumption and the conservation of resources.
Efficient resource usage to deliver environmental benefits and cost savings will be achieved through using energy and natural resources economically and efficiently, and by reducing emissions and waste levels.
Where reducing consumption is not a viable option, we aim to utilise materials derived from sustainable or recycled sources.
We recognise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support the UK Governments commitment to do this.
We are demonstrating our commitment to this in our aim to develop systems to monitor energy use, promote more efficient use of energy in all buildings and encourage practices which reduce energy consumption.
Environmental performance Waste management and recycling During 2007, Rathbones made further progress in understanding the primary sources of its waste and methods of its disposal.
A survey of UK offices showed that collection systems are in place across all offices for about three-quarters of the most common types of recyclable waste such as newspapers, magazines, cardboard, glass and cans.
In our Bristol office, a pilot scheme to monitor waste was conducted over a three-month period.
This revealed that, on average, 90 per cent of all waste collected was recycled.
UK regional and Jersey offices maintained their arrangements for the shredding of confidential waste as required by the Data Protection Act with the additional benefit that this office grade paper is sent for recycling.
55 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued Environmental performance continued Waste management and recycling continued Rathbones London office continued to recycle significant quantities of paper and other types of waste.
At present, segregated data for different recycled waste streams as provided by our supplier, Paper Round Ltd are only available for this office.
However, we are able to include, for the first time, data for confidential shredded waste from our Liverpool office.
Rathbones: recycling data Mass 2007 Mass 2006 collected Proportion collected Proportion Type of waste Ofce kg of total kg of total Mixed & white paper London 39,390 35.9% 31,440 32.6% Security shredding London 7,098 6.5% 9,140 9.5% Security shredding Liverpool 53,840 49.0% 48,240 50.0% Cardboard London 5,110 4.7% 3,445 3.5% Cans plastic bottles London 344 0.3% 322 0.3% Glass London 4,005 3.6% 3,945 4.1% Total kgs 109,787 96,532 During March and April 2007, a sampling exercise was carried out in our London office to ascertain an estimate of the total amount of waste sent to landfill over the course of a year.
This produced an approximate figure of non-recyclable waste for 2007 of 30,420 kgs, giving an estimated recycling rate for this office of 65%.
Over the year, we have continued to work in conjunction with our chosen supplier, EOL IT Services an approved WEEE disposal agent to ensure compliance with regulations relating to the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which came into effect on 1 January 2007.
EOL exercises a zero landfill policy: all equipment it collects is cleansed of any confidential data before being scanned to test for suitability for re-use.
EOL works with a number of local charities and educational facilities close to its base in Essex to provide IT equipment for worthwhile causes.
In 2007, redundant IT equipment sent for refurbishment included 103 CRT monitors, 280 PCs, 14 servers and seven printers.
All PCs were replaced with low energy HP Compaq models as part of a group-wide refurbishment programme: monitors were replaced with Energy Star accredited LCD screens.
Shared multi-functional devices continue to be installed as replacements where appropriate for desktop printers.
Where possible, we also continue to recycle fluorescent tubes, printer toner cartridges, mobile telephones and batteries.
Objectives for 2008 Our Liverpool office is in the process of engaging a supplier to handle all types of waste and provide relevant data for the volumes handled and intends to have a contract in place during 2008.
Our Jersey office also hopes to have similar arrangements in place during the course of the year.
Further sampling exercises will be carried out in our London offices to verify the accuracy of this years estimate of waste sent to landfill as a proportion of total waste generated.
Resource usage We are pleased to report an overall fall of 17% in CO2 emissions at our London office, where 34% of the Groups UK & Channel Islands staff were located during 2007: per head of full-time staff, this represented a decrease of 30%.
This was largely due to a 38% reduction in gas usage following maintenance work in one of our buildings during the summer of 2006 and the conclusion of a major refurbishment programme.
Electricity usage also fell by 11% during the year, reflecting the impact of continuing investment in energy efficiency measures.
56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Chart 1.
London ofce CO2 emissions 700.00 3.0 600.00 2.5 500.00 2.0 400.00 1.5 300.00 1.0 200.00 0.5 100.00 0.00 2004 2005 2006 2007 0.0 CO2 tonnes CO2emissions per f t employee tonnes Following further analysis of historical utility data, we are able to publish comparative figures for electricity consumption from our London, Liverpool, Bristol and Winchester offices, where some 75% of the Groups UK and Channel Islands staff are located.
We are also able to include electricity data from the first full year of operation of our new Jersey office, where a further 18% of staff are based.
In refurbishing both the London and Liverpool offices, Rathbones has invested in the most up to date lighting technology incorporating only energy efficient fluorescent or LED lighting.
Halogen or diachronic lights using 50W bulbs have been replaced by 9W LED lights.
In addition all lighting systems are PIR passive infrared switched, ensuring lights are turned off when buildings are unoccupied.
The Liverpool building refurbishment also includes investment in a replacement energy efficient heat recovery air-conditioning system.
Both of these investments should be reflected in further reductions in future energy usage.
Actual water usage for the London office showed an increase of just under 10% for the year, while consumption per head fell by 4%.
London office: water consumption 3,000 12.0 2,500 10.0 2,000 8.0 1,500 6.0 1,000 4.0 500 2.0 00 2004 2005 2006 2007 0.0 3 Units m 3 Consumption per employee m 57 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued Environmental performance continued Objectives for 2008 During the year, we aim to further improve the quality of resource usage data and expand its collection around the Group.
We will examine ways of extracting data for energy used for heating ofces where these occupy leased or shared premises.
We also intend to evaluate our performance against standard benchmarks for similar organisations of a comparable size which are engaged in a similar business activity.
Business travel Rathbones acknowledges that business travel represents one of the major environmental impacts within its control.
Group employees continue to use teleconferencing and videoconferencing facilities extensively in an effort to reduce the need to travel for internal business purposes.
Further to our statement in last years report, the Group began the phasing out of the provision of non-essential company cars in February 2007 and it is envisaged that the vast majority of the remaining 35 vehicles will be phased out over the next four years.
Objectives for 2008 During the year we will aim to begin collating data on business travel to understand the extent to which different forms of transport are used by employees for business purposes.
Ethical purchasing The most significant use of paper within Rathbones continues to be in the production of investment management reports for clients.
During 2007, these reports continued to be printed using 100% recycled paper.
The vast majority if not all of the companys printed output including marketing publications, investor communications, client account documentation and printed stationary are being produced using FSC certied paper containing a high percentage of post-consumer waste, and we are now using recycled copier paper.
We continue to support the use of Fairtrade products with several ofces regularly purchasing tea, coffee and sugar from certied sources.
Employees Our employees are vital to the Groups continuing success and ongoing work is taking place to ensure that our staff continue to choose to develop their careers at Rathbones.
We are mindful of changing legislation, especially in the area of age discrimination and family friendly practices, which has led to a review of all policies and procedures.
Health and welfare Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees are eligible for private medical cover provided by the Company, which extends to direct family members of employees.
Additionally, all UK staff have the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination and a biennial eye test.
We also provide an independent and condential Employee Assistance Programme offering advice on employment, personal and legal concerns.
The facility can also provide face-to-face counselling if deemed necessary.
With the help of external consultants a revised Health and Safety Policy has been developed for the UK ofces and a range of training courses have been delivered to those staff with Health and Safety responsibilities.
A Health and Safety Steering Group has been formed to ensure that standards are maintained.
Equality and diversity Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
If employees become disabled during their service with Rathbones, wherever practicable, arrangements are made to continue their employment and training.
58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Employees continued Work-life balance Rathbones has made significant progress in reviewing and implementing new work-life balance policies.
The childcare voucher scheme has been running for three years and 36 employees currently take the opportunity to purchase vouchers through salary deduction.
We have revised our holiday entitlement policy and with effect from 2008 all UK full time staff will have 25 days holiday, increasing to 30 days on the fifth anniversary of joining.
The popular holiday purchase scheme will be run again in 2008, with 102 employees opting to buy up to five additional days of leave, but we are mindful that this can lead to greater pressure on other staff.
Maternity benets remain considerably in excess of those required under statutory provisions.
In 2007, only two women out of the 14 on maternity leave chose not to return to work.
Career breaks of up to two years are also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
Flexible working policies are offered with a high number of successful applications.
Another new initiative for 2008 will be the opportunity for staff to take up to three months unpaid leave once in every ten years in order to pursue external interests without any loss of service-related benets such as pension or insurance cover.
Data to monitor the uptake and effectiveness of these policies, together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels, such as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover, are regularly reported and reviewed.
Work is continuing to produce more sophisticated management information and metrics to identify trends.
Training and development Rathbones insists on high standards throughout all areas of the business and particular care is taken to ensure that we employ the right people in the right jobs, not just in terms of their capabilities but also their attitude.
Enhanced contribution to the business combined with staff development and the provision of a stimulating working environment, is key to the culture of Rathbones and, where possible, we progress and promote from within.
We recognise the ideal that members of the business will play a part in its future at all stages of their careers: thus 2006 saw the implementation of a formal development programme, which will continue with two groups of staff from around the business participating in 2007.
Furthermore, in September 2007, our first formal graduate training programme began with eight recruits following a year-long programme covering theoretical and practical training in investment management.
Rathbones recognises that training, competence and development have a clear benefit for the business and encourage personal growth.
We are committed to the training and development of all employees, and will support participation in appropriate programmes, whether externally or internally provided.
A new director of training joined early in 2007 and has assisted in the delivery of middle and senior management development programmes as well as launching a range of short courses.
A dedicated IT trainer has also been recruited.
Rewards and benets Employees are encouraged to identify and to become involved with the financial performance of the Group.
We have used equity as part of the package for investment managers bringing business into the rm and, in 2001, Rathbones was one of the first companies in the country to launch a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the SIP, which is open to all employees, the Company matches every share purchased by individual employees with another free of charge.
Shares are also given free of charge if earnings growth conditions are achieved.
Take-up of the SIP is high, with employees at all levels and in all locations participating.
A member of staff who has been in the SIP since launch and has made the maximum monthly contributions now owns 3,823 shares which were valued at 40,141 as at 31 December 2007.
In relation to 2007, as a result of the significant increase in earnings per share, staff will receive a further allocation of free shares with a value of 1,070 to full-time employees 2006: 2,310.
To encourage the use of public transport, we offer interest-free loans for season tickets to all staff on satisfactory completion of their probationary period.
Research is currently ongoing to establish interest amongst staff who may wish to participate in a Cycle to Work scheme and, if it proves a popular idea, this will be put in place in 2008 and investment will be made in the provision of more bike racks and storage.
In addition, the advances and loans policy has been revised to allow staff meeting certain criteria to apply for small interest-free loans.
59 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report continued Employees continued Pension Rathbones recognises its responsibility to assist in the financial welfare of its employees when they reach retirement age and pays contributions to provide death in service cover and benets on retirement.
It has encouraged staff to review their personal arrangements on an ongoing basis in light of the pension simplication changes that came into effect in April 2006.
The opportunity to sacrifice profit share payments into pension arrangements is now available to staff.
We believe that the benets provided are generous and worthwhile, and are valued by all permanent employees eligible to join the schemes available.
We continually monitor this area to ensure the provision of benets and practices remain up-to-date and in line with rapidly changing legislative requirements.
Employee involvement Communication with staff takes place through a variety of means including internal email, a developing electronic document library and a quarterly internal newsletter to which all staff are actively encouraged to contribute both information and news about business issues, as well as articles on social, environmental and community issues.
All company announcements are emailed to staff in a timely fashion, a summary of the Groups corporate strategy is updated and given to staff annually.
At the full and half year, the chairman and or the chief executive also present the Groups summary results in person to UK ofces.
An addition, all investment managers across Rathbone Investment Managements eight ofces in the UK and an ofce in Jersey are linked by a tannoy system on a daily basis to hear key market news and by telephone and video conference weekly to discuss market trends, individual investments and related matters.
Non-investment management staff are also welcome to attend these meetings.
In 2007 SharePoint was made available to all UK staff enabling them to have quick and easy access to policies, procedures and other relevant documents and announcements.
A project is also underway to examine how this resource can be used more effectively to support communication.
Consultation with staff takes place when major changes to benets such as pensions are required and a range of internal committees and working parties draw in participation from across the rm on key issues such as IT, training, business continuity and marketing.
60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Community Rathbones continues to review community activities, both on a group and a local scale, and supports employees participation in a wide range of activities involving both local and international charities.
We encourage employees to take up voluntary and charitable positions, and the Board supports participation in such activities.
For example, the chairman is deputy chairman of Fight for Sight and the chief executive is involved with an educational charity.
Many of our staff are involved with schools, colleges, charities, civic, youth and religious groups in various capacities.
Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 205,000 representing 0.39% of pre-tax profits 2006: 68,000, representing 0.15% of pre-tax profits.
The significant increase included payments totalling 62,500 part of a commitment made to support four Liverpool secondary schools in their bids for Specialist Schools and Academies Trust status the total commitment 150,000 over four years.
Throughout 2007 three of these schools have successfully achieved specialist status in their chosen disciplines.
In addition to this financial support, a number of individuals from our Liverpool ofce have been appointed to the governing bodies of the four schools: thus helping to forge strong working relationships with each school whilst bringing a range of skills to their committees.
It also provides the members of staff involved with the opportunity to develop their wider professional and management skills.
A number of initiatives have been implemented with the individual schools to cater to their particular needs and we have agreed to provide two work experience places for each school annually.
Additionally, as part of our contribution to the celebrations for the Liverpool Capital of Culture, we are hosting a Summer Exhibition of artistic works during July 2008 in conjunction with the four schools, which we hope will showcase the creative talents of Liverpools youth across many different and diverse artistic media.
Information is available at www.
In 2007, the REACH Leukaemia Appeal within the Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity was selected by employee ballot as our charity of the year.
Payments of 500 each were made to 15 charities that were not selected.
Employees were encouraged to support the charity through participating in events such as sweepstakes and Christmas party rafes, and raised 4,485.
In early 2008, two new charities have been chosen by employee ballot from a selection of local, national and international charities nominated by employees.
These charities will be the focus of a range of group-wide activities for two years.
Staff are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2007, Rathbone staff made regular payments totalling 66,879 2006: 46,750 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 100 per month made through GAYE and in 2007 donated 40,729 2006: 22,250 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
From January 2008, the scheme has been enhanced with the Group now matching donations of up to 200 per month per employee.
Sponsorships As well as direct charitable donations, Rathbones provides support in the form of sponsorship, advertising and attendance at events organised by charities and arts organisations.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments continues to support Schumacher UK in its aims to promote sustainable development through its co-sponsorship of the organisations Bristol series of lectures.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments has also maintained its sponsorship of The Funding Network, a UK-based organisation which brings people together in a marketplace to help fund charitable projects.
61 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
