30 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLity Climate change continued to be a Product innovation is key to our success During 2007, we have been active in working major focus in 2007, generating both and across the business we adopt clear towards a common approach for responsible risks and opportunities for insurers.
segmentation methods to create tailored and procurement in the financial services sector.
RSA has been at the forefront of relevant products for specific customer groups.
This approach will help drive environmental the debate, helping customers and Social and environmental changes are always and social improvements throughout the supply preparing our business.
generating new insurance demands, and chain without jeopardising cost or quality.
we have continued to develop insurance Our approach to corporate responsibility is solutions that provide additional social responsible investment based on our Business Principles, which or environmental benefits: Our UK assets continue to be managed by F&C underpin everything we do and outline how we Asset Management who apply their responsible interact with stakeholders, both as a company In the UK, we launched the pilot of Green engagement overlay across our equity portfolios and as individuals.
These principles link to our Telematics using satellite technology, aimed at to encourage companies to manage social, ethical Group policies and form part of our broader reducing the environmental impact of driving, and environmental risks.
We receive regular risk and governance framework which, together through advising on driving behaviour feedback on the companies in which F&C Asset with our latest Corporate Responsibility Report Were expanding our global commercial Management have invested in on our behalf.
renewable energy insurance propositions and continue to be a leading provider of both employees Customers off-shore and on-shore wind cover A sustainable business needs to attract, develop As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping In Italy and Canada, based on our successful and reward talented people, as well as giving people recover and getting their lives back on 50 plus products in Scandinavia, we have people responsibility and making them track.
This was demonstrated by our response launched similar propositions targeting the accountable for their actions.
At RSA we are to weather related events during 2007, including over 50s, tailoring our insurance to the needs continuing to build and enhance our high Cyclone Gonu in Oman and the summer of this important and growing demographic.
This year we have flooding in the UK.
In response to the UK continued to focus on the ongoing development floods, we were one of the first insurers on the Business partners of our employees throughout our businesses ground, providing emergency payments and We work closely with our business partners and and at all levels.
Some of the major initiatives alternative accommodation, proactively intermediaries to grow a successful business at we focused on in 2007 were: contacting our customers within 48 hours.
the same time as reducing our social and environmental impact.
We demand high The launch of our Technical Academy global We remain committed to clear and open standards from them.
graduate programme in our core disciplines communication with customers, and resolving of claims, actuarial and underwriting their complaints promptly.
This was reflected group impacts by our upper quartile position in all categories 285,009 2,155 124,976 52,226 5,080 119,324 49,889 in the UK in the 2007 benchmark by the ABI.
253,160 1,827 Throughout our businesses we continue to 3,501 64% improve our customer service.
This year we offset rolled out our Personal Customer Manager programme, which was pioneered in our 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 Canadian business, to over 170,000 customers in the UK, assigning people with their own 3 1 2, 3 Water m Waste tonnes Paper tonnes Energy MWh CO tonnes 2 dedicated customer services manager.
1 This demonstrates our focus on improving Inclusion of marketing materials in 50% of operations 2 Revised in CR report 2006 the customer experience.
3 Includes expansion of Canadian reporting, inclusion of Italy and Colombia for first year Note: Data covers 85% of RSA 24,954 litres per fte 159 kg per fte 156 kg per fte 2,934 kWh per fte 2,292 kg per fte Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 31 Our Executive Development Programme as an insurer: is a major issue and alongside our provision is now in its fourth year, focusing on key We are committed to engaging in the climate of social housing insurance, Bridget McIntyre strategic projects change debate and work closely with forums is a member of the UK Governments Financial The FastTrack programme is a two year such as the United Nations, FORGE group Inclusion Taskforce and chairs the Insurance development programme for high potential and Were in this Together initiative Working Group.
We plan to continue We remain vocal in the UK on key the programme in 2008 with another environmental issues and continue to lobby Our overall charitable donation rose by 13% 45 participants.
on increased funding for flood defences and to 2.3 million in 2007, with 8,850 volunteer action on climate change hours donated.
In 2008, we look forward Scores recorded in our annual global employee Our technology to assess risk for customers to our first ever Groupwide volunteer event survey continued to improve, with overall is constantly improving and evolving through helping local great causes identified by our satisfaction improving by 2%.
A key part of this applications such as Eurotempest and our employees, and building on the success of the survey is using the feedback we get from Flood Risk Assessment tool RSA UK National Volunteer Week.
employees as a means of generating ideas and We aim to make it more affordable for actions to make operational improvements in customers to make environmental choices targets for 2008 all our businesses.
We turn the results into clear though products and services such as our We met 79% of our 2007 environmental targets.
Last year we also started to run commercial energy surveys, discounted For full details of the progress please see the full World Caf engagement events across the insurance for hybrid cars and fuel Corporate Responsibility Report.
These events have played a key part in efficient vehicles.
developing the new RSA brand and beliefs and The following targets are for completion by the empowering regional businesses to play their role Community end of 2008, set against a 2006 baseline.
in making major improvements to the business.
Over the last few years we have been developing a more targeted and proactive environmental targets 2008 % reduction environment community engagement programme.
As a energy During 2007 we have been focusing on integrating Group, we are focusing on three main areas UK electricity 10 environmental management and our climate that are relevant to our business and our Ireland 10 change strategy throughout our business.
These are Canada 5 safety, social inclusion and the environment.
Waste as a group: UK 10 We have stretching environmental targets Road accidents are a major cause of death and Denmark paper 5 in place.
This year we have made excellent injury, which as a leading motor insurer, we are CO impact 2 Ireland paper 10 progress and achieved over 79% of the committed to reducing.
Our programmes Rail CO original targets.
We have set new challenging on road safety education continue: in Chile 2 1.4% Group 2.5 targets for 2008 teaching 27,000 children, while in Sweden we Air UK 5 We continue to be Carbon Neutral in the donated 180,000 reflective safety vests.
In 13.4% Ireland travel 5 UK, and only use offsetting, in renewable Dubai, in association with the Government, Electricity travel air energy projects of the highest quality, as a we have started a road safety training and 51.4% UK 5 last resort stress reduction campaign for drivers.
Road Sweden 1 We have integrated best practice 19.8% Denmark 1 environmental design into the new Irish HQ Addressing social inclusion continues to be an Gas Ireland 10 and two major site refurbishments in the UK, issue across all our regions and we tackle this 14.0% 1 Canada 10 all due for occupation in 2008. in different ways.
In the UK, financial inclusion travel Car Sweden 5 CO impact CO emissions by region 2 2 Denmark 2 Rail Paper 1.4% Sweden 5 Air Emerging Markets Denmark 5 13.4% 6.6% note Electricity International All Canadian targets refer to RSA Canada only 1 51.4% 29.1% Canadian air target for international air travel with 5% domestic air travel reduction set Road UK including 19.8% Corporate Gas Centre 14.0% 64.3% CO emissions by region 2 Emerging Markets 6.6% International 29.1% UK including Corporate Centre 64.3%
