Economic and monetary environment Against the backdrop of robust demand, and an upward trend The Groups earnings are affected by the economic and in CPI-inflation, the European Central Bank raised the official monetary environment in its key markets UK, US, Eurozone refinancing rate twice in the first half of 2007, from 3.5% to and Asia Pacific.
4%, and staying on hold for the rest of the year.
Rapid economic growth in emerging market economies resulted in Global financial markets entered a period of unprecedented strong demand for Eurozone export goods, despite a 5% strain in the second half of 2007, with reference interbank trade-weighted appreciation of the euro.
Overall, the Eurozone lending rates spiking sharply and parts of the short-term appeared to be less affected by the liquidity squeeze than the money market seizing up.
This temporarily tightened monetary UK or the US, partly because domestic demand had been less conditions, affecting credit supply and denting investor risk reliant on credit.
appetite, at a time when a slowdown in global economic activity had started.
After a series of individual efforts, central Asia Pacific was the most dynamic region in 2007, with banks in Canada, the Eurozone, Switzerland, the UK and the economic growth outpacing the rate of expansion recorded in US intervened in concert to improve liquidity conditions in other regions.
Exports remained the main driver of economic money markets in December.
This measure was successful in growth, resulting in a large current account surplus, and bringing interest rate spreads in interbank markets back corresponding inflows of foreign exchange into the region.
towards historic averages, but uncertainties about the full Some countries in the region continued to manage their impact on the real economy and the future evolution of debt currencies, to prevent appreciation.
This loosening of monetary markets remain.
Inflationary pressures started to emerge, possibly requiring a tighter stance of The UK interest rate cycle peaked in 2007, with the Monetary monetary policy further out.
Policy Committee MPC first hiking the Bank Rate from 5% to 5.75% in three successive 25bps moves in January, May and In addition to influencing the level of effective demand July, before cutting it back to 5.50% in December and most countries face, exchange rates affect earnings reported by the recently to 5.25% in February.
The rate increases were due to a Groups non-UK subsidiaries, and the value of non-sterling combination of above-trend growth at 3.1% and CPI-inflation denominated assets and liabilities.
Sterling remained strong exceeding the official target of 2% for most of the year on the against the dollar in 2007, gaining another 1%, but slipped by back of high commodity prices.
Upside risks to inflation over 8% against the euro.
These movements have mixed effects on the medium-term prevailed, preventing the MPC from cutting the Groups reported earnings, assets and liabilities, boosting more aggressively in response to the liquidity squeeze in their sterling-value when denominated in euro but depressing financial markets in December.
On balance, monetary their sterling-value when denominated in dollars.
conditions were probably in restrictive territory in 2007, which is expected to lead to slower growth in 2008.
Sterlings 6% Supervision and regulation depreciation on a trade-weighted basis only partly offset the 1.
United Kingdom dampening impact from strains in money markets and high 1.1 Authorised firms in the Group inflation-adjusted interest rates, which only started to fall The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the towards the end of the year.
consolidated supervisor of the Group and the Royal Bank.
As at 31 December 2007, 31 companies in the Group US monetary conditions were close to neutral at the start of excluding subsidiaries of the ABN AMRO Group, 2007, with policy rates on hold at 5.25% until the onset of the spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, liquidity crisis in August.
A marked slowdown in the US insurance and investment business, were authorised to housing market, deterioration in consumer and business conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
confidence and the liquidity squeeze in financial markets prompted the Federal Open Market Committee FOMC to The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal bring the federal funds rate down to 4.25% by the end of the Bank, NatWest, Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Ltd. year.
Despite a 10% decline in the value of the dollar on a Wholesale activities, other than Group Treasury activities, trade-weighted basis and the resulting stimulus for US exports, are concentrated in the Groups Corporate Markets division the overall outlook for the US economy darkened materially in and are undertaken under the names of the Royal Bank the first two months of 2008.
The FOMC continued to react and NatWest.
UK retail banking activities are managed by aggressively in the face of more evidence of downside risks to the Retail Markets division.
The exception is Ulster Bank economic growth, and further reduced the policy rate by Ltd, which is run as a separate division within the Group.
125bps at two meetings in January, bringing it to 3.00% at the Ulster Bank Ltd provides banking services in Northern end of February 2008.
Even though CPI-inflation ran above 4% Ireland while the banking service to the Republic of Ireland by the end of 2007, US bond markets did not seem overly is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd which is primarily concerned about rising inflationary pressure in the longer term, supervised by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory as the long-end of the yield curve shifted downwards too.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 231 Additional information
