Corporate Responsibility RBS is a responsible company.
We carry out rigorous research so that we can be confident we know the issues that are most important to our stakeholders and we take practical steps to respond to what they tell us.
In 2007 we extended that research, engaging more fully the stakeholders of Ulster Bank and RBS Insurance, and stakeholders in the US.
In this section we outline some of our stakeholders priorities and describe the actions we have taken in response.
Combating crime Stakeholders have told us that financial crime is their leading concern.
This reflects the fact that identity fraud is the UKs fastest-growing crime and the media coverage that high profile cases receive.
We understand the reasons for stakeholders concerns and work hard to achieve our vision of RBS being the safest place to do business.
We have taken a range of actions to protect our customers.
Working with others, our contribution to industry initiatives in 2007 was equivalent to 14,000 days of police officers time.
RBS was among the first banks to load data onto the new Fraud Intelligence Sharing System.
Our internal team dedicated to improving security and combating fraud employs more than 900 people in the UK alone.
During 2007 the Group implemented Ben Morris took advantage of 30 initiatives to tackle fraud.
In the US, Citizens Fraud Stopper our YourWorld bike-to-work scheme Program rewards employees who go above and beyond their that allows employees to make normal job responsibilities to prevent fraud against the Group.
considerable savings on the cost of a cycle.
He also uses YourWorld Our focus on crime makes good business sense.
In an carbon offsets and tax free bus independent survey of customers who had experienced fraud season tickets.
on their cards, the satisfaction score for RBS and NatWest In June we launched the YourWorld was over 80%.
There is a carbon calculator, energy efficiency tips and Building financial capability discounted offers on products which When people have been educated about money and how to reduce their carbon footprint.
work with financial services firms they are more likely to make the right decisions and to avoid difficulties.
Our commitment to building financial capability began over 14 years ago with the 22 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Corporate Responsibility 100% of electricity purchased in the UK and for the island of Ireland came from renewable energy sources Employee double matching programmes extended to the US, Europe and Asia-Pacific Face2Face with Finance for Schools programme.
During 20 employees from Wealth that time we have invested more than 40 million in related Management spent a week working activities, from providing lessons to almost 1.5 million school with charity, Habitat for Humanity, children to supporting 20,000 free training courses for debt constructing five houses for a rural advisers.
In 2007 our employees delivered more than 16,000 community near Bangalore, India.
To ensure we have a sound evidence base for our activities in this field we have established the MoneySense Research Panel, a cohort of 10,000 secondary school pupils aged between 11 and 18 years.
We will keep in touch with this group of young people over the next five years to understand how different levels of financial education and understanding affect the capabilities, aspirations and decisions they make as they enter early adulthood.
In supplying money advice, our work aims to improve the The work we do to build financial capability extends beyond quality and availability of information for people facing young people in schools.
In October, Face2Face with Finance difficulties managing their finances.
Of course, much of what was brought even more firmly into the heart of our business we do in this area is part of the service we routinely offer to and rebranded as MoneySense.
In addition to general advice, available through MoneySense, our research shows that customers value We reached beyond our customer base in building capability tailored money management advice that helps them when they through media partnerships with two UK national newspapers.
In 2007, our response included The Metro Debt Alert campaign, run in partnership with Citizens recruiting an additional 1,000 Customer Service Advisers in Advice sought to help people better understand their finances our RBS and NatWest branches and undertaking 1.2 million and encouraged those with concerns to seek help early.
Our personal financial reviews with our customers.
partnership with the Daily Mail offered its readers a free guide on How to Take Control of Your Money.
We also support the money advice sector.
Our efforts here are channelled through the Money Advice Trust MAT, a charity Promoting financial inclusion formed in 1991 to improve the supply of free and independent Some people can find it difficult to access financial services, money advice.
We continue to be the largest corporate sponsor with challenges in three areas: bank accounts, credit and of MAT.
Our support allows the MAT to train Debt Advisers.
We are the UKs largest provider of Basic Bank More than 90% of the free money advice sector is trained Accounts, which are designed for customers who have had using RBS funded materials and our funding supports 5,000 difficulty in entering the banking system.
free places on training courses each year.
We have chosen to focus our support specifically on face-to-face advice because We recognise that some peoples financial needs may be it is the preferred channel for those on lowest incomes.
better fulfilled by organisations outside the banking sector and we work with Third Sector bodies to improve the provision of In the US, Citizens Individual Development Account offers low affordable credit to people on low incomes.
In January, RBS income families incentives to save for home ownership, postwas chosen as the main banking partner of Scotcash, a new secondary education or business ownership.
This anti-poverty Community Development Finance Institution set up to provide strategy combines learning about financial management with access to affordable credit to people in Glasgow who have not incentives to save for long-term assets that improve the economic had full access to mainstream financial services.
security and lifetime earning power of participants.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 23 Corporate Responsibility continued Customer service Our consistent leadership among the main high street banks in customer satisfaction is a consequence of our desire to make it as easy as possible to use our services.
We operate the largest branch network in Britain and the second largest in the island of Ireland and continue to extend them in both locations.
We operate one in five of all free-to-use ATMs in the UK, the largest free-to-use network in the country.
However, our stakeholders told us that some communities in the UK do not have reasonable access to a free-to-use ATM.
To address this, we committed to installing additional free-to-use ATMs in neighbourhoods without existing provision and with 494 in place we will soon reach our target of 500 machines.
People living in remote communities across Scotland, England and Wales, often distant from a branch and other services, can use one of our 20 mobile branches.
They make more than 25,000 stops each year and cover in excess of 190,000 miles.
Last year we introduced four new mobile branches in North Wales and Yorkshire, operated by RBS, and in Cumbria and Devon under the NatWest brand.
In January we launched a new product designed to meet the needs of the UKs growing Polish community.
The NatWest Welcome Account provides easy access to banking services for Polish speakers in the UK.
Since we know that sending money home is important to them, we have made arrangements with PKO Bank Polski, Polands largest retail In December, we gave 1 million bank, so that customers can make free money transfers to 91 childrens charities, chosen by between their NatWest Welcome Account and any account staff and readers of the Daily Mail.
The Welcome Account won the Best Childrens Minister, Rt Hon Beverley Innovation in Banking award from Scottish Financial Enterprise.
Hughes MP handed over 100,000 to the winning charity, Tommys.
Ulster Bank has added foreign language specialists to a number of its branches, as well as publishing a Welcome Ulster Banks musical outreach Brochure with sections in Polish, Portuguese, Lithuanian and programme is designed to nurture Chinese Mandarin.
young primary school talent across the island of Ireland.
Children from St Pauls Junior National School in Citizens in the community Dublin enjoy their workshop.
In the US, Citizens has a proud tradition of community involvement and investment.
During 2007, we invested $25 million with more than 4,000 non-profit organisations and over the last six years 24 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Corporate Responsibility 57.7 million invested in our communities during 2007 RBS achieved the highest AAA rating from Innovest for managing social and environmental risks our charitable investments have grown by 500%.
We extended Charter Ones Champion in our UK Give As You Earn programme to the US: under the Action programme has assisted Colleague Matching Gift Program launched in August, Citizens more than 90 small non-profit matches the charitable donations qualifying employees make agencies who support their local to eligible organisations up to $1,000 per year.
Near West Theatre, Cleveland, Ohio provides local The Community Reinvestment Act CRA in the US encourages youngsters with the chance to financial institutions to help meet the needs of low and moderate engage in creative activities and income communities.
There are four CRA ratings: Outstanding, was the first to benefit when the Satisfactory, Needs to Improve and Substantial Non-Compliance.
programme was extended to the Citizens has Outstanding ratings in every state where it Midwest.
operates and we have retained the Outstanding CRA rating throughout all of our acquisitions.
Our employees Involvement in voluntary work is one example of how our in them.
It also helps us to develop the products and services employees support the communities in which they work.
to meet our customers needs, and to sustain and enhance the We give employees more hours off work to participate in value we return to our shareholders.
Last year we convened charitable activities than any company in the UK.
We launched the new Strategic Advisory Board of our Business School, with Colleagues in Action in Citizens to give greater prominence membership drawn from some of the worlds leaders in executive to the voluntary work of our employees.
More than half of our education.
Our Senior Manager Development Programme, employees report that the Group does a very good job in designed and delivered for us by Harvard Business School, supporting charitable giving and almost nine out of ten say we was supplemented by the Executive Leadership Programme are socially responsible in the communities in which we operate.
which was developed by Duke Corporate Education.
Our supportive approach to community involvement is one of RBS and the environment the reasons for the consistently strong results achieved in the We recognise the threats posed by climate change and annual Employee Opinion Survey where we consistently exceed endeavour to make a difference where we can.
That involves the performance of our peers.
More than 80% of employees reducing the Groups carbon footprint and wider environmental feel they are treated with respect at work.
Two out of three impacts, helping our employees as they change their behaviour employees believe RBS does a good job in developing our and lending responsibly to the highest  people to their full potential.
We seem to get right the balance standards.
In 2007 we elevated the priority given to the between work and home life, with eight in ten employees environment and brought greater coherence to our activities saying the hours they put in to get the job done are reasonable.
with the establishment of the Group Environment Programme.
Almost nine out of ten employees feel they are sufficiently informed about the Groups performance and more than 80% Our footprint say we are good at keeping them informed more generally.
In Financial services is an industry with a low carbon footprint all of these instances, and more, our results exceed the Global and RBS has one of the lowest among UK banks.
We are High Performance Norm, the results achieved by the worlds committed to reducing further the carbon intensity of our best performing companies.
operations and the initiatives we have taken should reduce our carbon dioxide emissions by as much as one-fifth by 2011.
Since we believe that our people are the source of our enduring We will achieve that in a number of ways.
Since October 2007, success we invest to develop them.
The RBS Business School all of our electricity in the UK and Ireland has come from is central to our commitment to our people to bring out the best renewable sources.
Phase one of our 55 million property RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 25 Corporate Responsibility continued investment programme is nearing completion and will cut our annual carbon dioxide emissions by 97,000 tonnes.
We are piloting energy efficient technologies at our Building for the Future sites in Blackpool and Rotherham in England.
Last year the Group recycled 21,000 tonnes of paper and the introduction of e-statements in November will reduce significantly the 15 million statements we send through the post each month.
Our employees Our employees have told us that they take seriously their personal impact on the environment and strive to minimise it where they can.
We took a major step to helping them with the launch of Your World.
Through this web-based service, employees in the UK, Ireland and the US can calculate their carbon footprint, obtain advice about how to reduce it and buy competitively-priced energy and transport services that will also help them to reduce their emissions.
Our lending RBS is one of the ten initial adopters of the Equator Principles, a benchmark for managing the social and environmental impact of financing projects.
We lend only to projects which satisfy these exacting standards.
Our regard for the environment also makes good business sense and the Group is among the largest funders of renewable energy projects in the world.
Recognition Our efforts in managing the Groups environmental impact Barbara Norris is one of the have been recognised by others.
The ratings agency Innovest 6,000 members of staff who have upgraded us to AAA for managing social and environmental delivered MoneySense lessons to risks and opportunities, and we were again included in the 1,500 schools across the UK.
Here Dow Jones and FTSE4GOOD sustainability indices.
RBS was she is helping pupils at Ramsey included in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Climate Disclosure School Essex.
Leadership Index and we were one of only four banks globally to receive a score of 95% or higher.
At the World Economic Sharon Johnson who has Forum in Davos, we were included among the worlds 100 most worked for RBS since leaving sustainable companies for the first time.
school 17 years ago, took a two month sabbatical to work at the Sepilok Orangutan Sanctuary in Borneo.
26 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Corporate Responsibility Directors report and summary financial statement Contents 28 Board of directors and secretary 30 Summary remuneration report 36 Financial results 43 Shareholder information RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 27 Directors report and summary financial statement
