Business review organisations, the wider community and Workplace Corporate companies in which we invest.
Our behaviour Schroders has more than 2,800 people is in turn influenced by our core values across 28 countries.
Throughout our responsibility Integrity, Passion, Innovation, Teamwork 203-year history, our people have always and Excellence.
been our most important asset, at the heart of everything we do.
It remains a priority for Governance structure us to develop, manage and retain our talented A clear delegation of responsibilities forms people in order to deliver our potential as an the backbone of our CR activities.
We want to be an employer of With a trusted heritage of over 200 years, Board is ultimately responsible for corporate choice and we work to ensure that our Schroders has a long-standing commitment governance and CR within the Group.
During employee policies reflect best practice within to maintaining consistently high standards in 2007, a new Corporate Responsibility each of the countries where we operate and all areas of corporate responsibility CR.
Committee was established to provide a that our staff understand the strategic aims We seek to: strategic framework and better co-ordination and objectives of the Group, are clear about Reduce our environmental footprint: of the Groups CR activities.
This Committee their role in achieving them and are aware of is responsible for the development of and participate in the wider community.
Support the communities in which we Schroders policies on CR and their operate: An Employee Consultation Forum was implementation through the Group as established in the UK in 2005, consisting of Attract and develop the best people: we look further to embed CR principles employees elected by their peers.
Members in all of our activities and culture, as well as Be transparent in our operations and of the Forum meet regularly with management to introduce a formal measurement system.
reporting: and as part of a Joint Consultative Group which As part of this change, Alan Brown, Group discusses employee-related matters and Encourage and support these principles Chief Investment Officer, has assumed provides feedback and recommendations in the companies in which we invest.
responsibility for all employee, environmental to the senior management team.
Schroders is an index component of both and community involvement issues, socially the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index responsible investment and corporate DJSI World and the Dow Jones STOXX governance issues relating to the companies Sustainability Index DJSI STOXX.
also included in the FTSE4Good Index that is designed to identify companies that meet Our approach to corporate responsibility is globally recognised CR standards.
built around four main areas: As one of the leading quoted asset Workplace: managers in the world, we recognise Marketplace: that how we behave can influence other Environment: and companies in the global financial services Community.
Our stakeholders, with whom we maintain an ongoing dialogue, include shareholders, staff, non-governmental Business review 14 15 High ethical standards We actively promote high ethical standards.
Concerns about behaviour or decisions that are perceived to be unethical can be raised by employees through our internal whistleblowing process.
Personal securities trading by employees is regulated and monitored to ensure this does not lead to conflicts of interest.
Staff are not permitted to solicit or accept any inducements which are likely to conflict with their duties to clients.
Training is provided in relation to these issues and in relation to money laundering, terrorist finance and data protection.
Remuneration Our approach to remuneration is consistent with our ambition to be an employer of choice.
We have developed flexibility to enable our staff to personalise their remuneration package to suit their own needs and ambitions.
Business review As a further example of our commitment to A flexible working policy has been developed Marketplace our staff, at the end of 2007, we announced to recognise the diverse needs of employees As a leading asset management group, our intention to significantly enhance the in managing the responsibilities of their work investing over 139.1 billion on behalf defined pension contribution rates for and personal lives.
We believe that achieving of our clients, our investment decisions UK staff from 1 March 2008.
Pension an effective balance in these areas is beneficial have a greater impact than our direct arrangements in other locations have also to both the Group and the individual.
recognise that through the attraction and Schroders initially introduced a socially retention of a diverse workforce we are better Further information on our remuneration responsible investment policy in 2000 able to understand the needs of all our clients.
policy is outlined in the remuneration report to enhance our approach to corporate It is the Groups policy to give full and fair on pages 27 and 28. governance.
This policy meets the ABI consideration to applications from disabled Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible persons, having regard to their particular Personal development Investment and endorses the Voluntary aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of Our performance management process Code on Shareholder Activism issued by the training, career developments and progression comprises an annual performance appraisal Institutional Shareholders Committee.
A disabled employees including those who against agreed objectives and our core copy of the policy is available on our website become disabled during the course of their values.
Output from this performance at http: ir.
com download employment are treated on equal terms process is used to inform decisions on SRIPolicy.
We operate a zero remuneration, career development and tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
In 2007, Schroders became a signatory progression.
In creating a high performing to the United Nations Principles for organisation, we recognise the importance Health and safety Responsible Investment UN-PRI that of encouraging all our employees to learn, We promote high standards of health provide a framework for how to consider develop and fulfil their potential.
We provide and safety at work and have a globally environmental, social and corporate our staff worldwide with access to a implemented health and safety policy, governance issues into our investment wide range of training and development which we expect all staff to follow and which decision making.
opportunities that are relevant to our business.
highlights our commitment to ensuring We are also a founding member of the employees are provided with a safe and Diversity Institutional Investors Group on Climate healthy working environment.
Training is We are committed to providing equal Change, signatories to the Bali Communique also offered to all staff.
opportunities and seek to ensure that our issued by the Corporate Leadership Group workforce reflects the diversity of the many on Climate Change and a member of the communities in which we operate.
Our investment process incorporates research into the corporate responsibility performance of companies and we engage with companies where the scope of environmental, social and governance codes falls short of acceptable standards.
Business review 16 17 During 2007, Schroders voted on 122 shareholder resolutions of a social, ethical or environmental nature and engaged in dialogue with 69 companies on these issues to improve our analysis.
Number of companies engaged with on CR issues 69 70 69 49 40 2003 2005 2006 2007 2004 In addition to our engagement activities we also utilise the research of the Ethical Investment Research Service.
This enables us to screen investable universes in order to reflect clients values in their investment portfolios.
At the end of 2007, Schroders had 9.2 billion of funds under management which had some form of ethical criteria attached to them.
Environment We are committed to continuous improvement in minimising the negative environmental impact of our operations and to the promotion of positive environmental practices.
We measure our performance in terms of waste management, water usage and energy usage.
Business review Waste management Water usage Energy usage We try to balance business needs with We are also committed to the efficient use Our energy usage is one of the most significant the aim of reducing our consumption of of water and encourage our staff to conserve impacts that our operations have on the materials.
However, in 2007, our consumption of environment.
Schroders has monitored and reduction in waste generation, and through piped water increased as a result of the managed its energy consumption for several the introduction of further recycling initiatives refurbishment work undertaken at our years and continues to look for new and staff awareness campaigns we Gresham Street office in London.
opportunities to minimise our usage continued to beat our target to recycle wherever possible.
In 2008, we intend to or reuse over 90 per cent.
install an electrical sub-metering system Total water consumption at our Gresham Street offices, better to cubic metres understand and target efficiencies in our 2006 2007 14500 energy consumption.
Waste generated tonnes 685 568 Waste recycled or reused Total energy consumption for 2007 across 13500 per cent.
92 91 our London offices has decreased by 3.6 Waste generated per cent.
compared with 2006, primarily tonnes per employee 0.256 0.196 reflecting the building work undertaken 12500 during the year to refurbish our Gresham Schroders has been awarded the Platinum Street offices and reduce our IT load through Award in the City of Londons Clean City 11500 consolidation and decommissioning of 2006 2007 Scheme for the third year running.
places us in the top 20 out of 1,300 buildings As part of this work, we have introduced more Water consumption per employee in the Scheme, which recognises good energy efficient systems and more advanced waste management and effective recycling.
cubic metres controls to reduce our overall consumption.
7 6 Energy consumption Mwh 5 4 12200 3 12000 2 1 11800 0 2006 2007 11600 11400 2006 2007 Energy consumption per employee Mwh 4.6 4.4 4.2 4.0 3.8 3.6 2006 2007 Business review 18 19 Almost all of our staff in London travel to Volunteering work by public transport.
All business travel As well as making financial donations, is approved and authorised by line managers staff are encouraged to spend time and the use of video conferencing as an working in the community.
Since June alternative to travel is actively encouraged.
2005, staff in the UK have been able to We have increased the number of video take up to 15 hours paid leave per year conference facilities in London and are to provide volunteer services.
Many staff developing a programme to increase the regularly volunteer their own time to work number of video conferencing facilities at in the not for profit sector, utilising their our other offices during 2008. business experience.
Community Overseas volunteering We encourage all staff to participate in During 2007, Schroders staff continued the community and in civic and charitable to volunteer to help Habitat for Humanity, causes.
Involvement is valuable to the a global charity dedicated to eliminating community and also assists personal sub-standard housing and homelessness.
Investing time to help build homes with their colleagues enables employees to Charitable giving build strong team relationships and develop Our charitable giving has in recent years their communication skills, whilst making focused on employee choice with the Group a positive and lasting contribution to the matching staff donations and sponsorship.
Schroders In 2007, the Board agreed to increase our contributes 50 per cent.
of the cost of charitable giving to include discretionary participating, with employees meeting donations, doubling our donations to the remainder as well as raising money 1.25 million.
A new Charity Committee was established Local community involvement to receive nominations from staff for potential In London, Schroders is a significant donations, targeted at specific projects in corporate supporter of the Hackney the areas of education, development and Schools Mentoring Programme, health.
Fifty-two applications were considered established in 1996 by the East London before five donations of between 50,000 Business Alliance and Hackney Learning and 100,000 were made.
Our staff continue to help A number of our offices operate payroll giving mentor 14 and 15 year old students in the schemes of which the UK scheme is the London Borough of Hackney to increase largest.
At the end of 2007, nearly 16 per students self confidence and improve cent.
of UK staff were their academic performance and allow participating, making charitable donations them to gain experience of the working totalling 197,317 through this scheme.
We world and to broaden their aspirations.
again received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark A number of staff also help primary Gold Award in 2007, in recognition of over school children with literacy skills.
of staff giving money to charity via the payroll.
