Section 03 Our performance Supply Chain Governance Climate Change and Energy Resource Use Customers Sustainable Communities and Workforce Biodiversity Value and Risk Environmental Impacts 33 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our performance Sustainability review In 2007, we also established a forum in which our senior business In this section of our Annual Report we leaders can meet regularly to share best practice and support the have summarised what we are doing development of our sustainability strategy and its dissemination across the Group.
In addition to the annual sustainability plans to make our business more sustainable.
and objectives we set for all our businesses, we also organise A more detailed account will be published a sustainability week, a Group-wide programme that coincides with World Environment Day that focuses on how in our 2007 Sustainability Report, on our individuals and teams can adopt a more sustainable lifestyle website, in April 2008. and contribute to making Carillion a sustainable business.
We believe that our leadership in sustainability will increasingly Our performance differentiate us from our competitors and help us to win more In 2007, we continued to set specific targets for each of our orders, minimise our social, environmental and ethical risks, business units and for the Group as a whole.
In addition, we control costs and deliver better services to our customers.
focused on five key areas, namely Strategy communicating simply and consistently to all our people We have a well established strategy model for sustainable to ensure a common understanding of our strategy and development, which is aligned with the four priority areas objectives for sustainability defined by the UK Government in its sustainable development establishing new internal branding for sustainability strategy, Securing the Future, namely developing a clear policy for understanding and managing our carbon emissions sustainable communities introducing quarterly progress reviews of performance natural resource protection and environmental enhancement against our key performance indicators and sustainability climate change and energy excellence model and sustainable consumption and production.
improving our performance in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
We have identified 12 behaviours and activities across these four priority areas, as illustrated in our sun diagram below, The Groups key sustainability objectives for 2007 were based on which affect the delivery of our business objectives.
In order to drive continuous improvement, these were demanding targets and our performance Managing sustainability against them has been independently audited by Bureau Veritas.
Our commitment to sustainability is driven by our Board, A full report on what we have achieved, including our scores supported by a Sustainability Advisory Committee.
This Committee against these targets and key objectives, will be published in our is chaired by our Group Chief Executive, John McDonough, and 2007 Sustainability Report in April 2008. includes a number of senior Directors, drawn from across our businesses, to ensure that it maintains close links with the Groups Participating in Business in the Communitys Corporate operational activities.
The Committee also benefits from expert Responsibility Index enables us to benchmark our performance advice from two external members, Jonathon Porritt, Chair of the externally.
Since the inception of the Index in 2003, Carillion has UK Governments Sustainable Development Commission, and Julia improved its score each year.
In the 2006 Index published in 2007 Cleverdon, Chief Executive of Business in the Community BITC.
Carillion achieved a gold performance ranking of 92.5 per cent, topping the construction and building materials sector.
The average score of all participating companies was 87 per cent, Behaviours and activities which demonstrates that Carillion not only continues to be the affecting sustainable development leader in its sector, but that our performance compares favourably with that of companies in all sectors.
Carillion continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good index and we were also delighted to be ranked among the top 20 most ethical firms in the UK in 2007 by The Observers Good Company Guide.
Our sustainability strategy also won the top award for the best Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy at both the Corporate Making Communications magazine awards and the Midlands Region tomorrow a better PRide Awards.
place We say more about what we are doing to improve our impacts in the four priority areas of the Governments sustainable development strategy, Securing the Future, on pages 34 and 35.
Community Design Sustainable Consumption and Production Our People Natural Resource Protection and Environmental Enhancement Atmospheric Impacts Health and Safety 34 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our performance Sustainability review continued 01.
Sustainable Communities and Workforce Natural Resource Protection and Creating a sustainable business requires the commitment Environmental Enhancement of all our people the Carillion community.
We seek to Carillion has developed and implemented environmental achieve this through our Health and Safety, leadership, management systems across the Group and over 99 personal development and employee engagement per cent of our UK operations are now accredited to programmes, which are described in more detail on ISO 14001 by a registered third party.
What we do and how we do it can have significant impacts How we do business is based on our belief that its not only on the use of natural resources and the environment and what we do that matters, but also how we do it, which drives we use our knowledge and skills in developing sustainable our commitment to living our values in everything we do.
solutions to create positive impacts in these areas.
Through our Values Awards we recognise the outstanding contributions our people make to our success in delivering The preservation of natural habitats and the wildlife they an excellent service to our customers and 1,500 Carillion support is important both socially and environmentally.
Seven people received these awards in 2007. years ago we entered into a partnership with the Wildlife Trusts and established the Carillion Natural Habitats Fund.
Our commitment to sustainable communities extends beyond To date we have contributed over 185,000 to the fund to our own people.
We have a community engagement strategy finance 32 projects and provide opportunities for our people for all our major worksites and projects and we encourage to volunteer and support the preservation of natural habitats.
our people to understand how we can have positive impacts on the communities in which we operate and to participate In recognition of our leadership in sustainability, Carillion was in community activities.
represented on two of the working groups that supported the UK Governments Sustainable Procurement Taskforce Carillion is a member of Business in the Communitys PerCent and helped in the development of its Flexible Framework.
Club, which comprises companies that contribute over one Under the framework there are four levels of achievement per cent of their pre-tax profits in cash or in kind to community in respect of sustainable procurement.
We were delighted to activities.
We support the Business Action on Homelessness achieve Level 1 in 2007 and plan to achieve Level 4 by 2010. campaign designed to help homeless people break the cycle of no home, no job and in 2007, we supported 57 people Carillion continues to be a member of the WWF-UK Forest through the Ready to Work programme.
and Trade Network and we purchase timber from Forest Stewardship Council certified sources wherever possible.
We As one of the UKs leading providers of training for support also report the volumes and sources of the timber we use to services and construction skills, we contribute to the the WWF annually.
development of individuals and communities.
In 2007, around 1,200 apprentices successfully completed their training in one of our 18 UK training centres and some 200 people received training for entry level jobs in the construction industry.
Section 03 Our performance 35 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 01.
Hadyard Hill Wind Farm, South the Carillion legal team, receiving Ayrshire, one of the UKs largest wind Business in the Communitys Individual farms, built by Carillion for Scottish & Volunteer of the Year, South East, Southern Energy.
The EcoDepot in York, designed and 02.
Implementing Biodiversity Action built by Carillion, is an award-winning, Plans is fundamental to the success national exemplar of sustainable of Carillion projects.
Climate change and energy Sustainable Consumption and Production Global warming and climate change are now widely Carillions leadership in developing and implementing accepted as areas of major international concern.
its sustainability strategy model, which relates our Carillion is committed to addressing these issues and impact on the environment and on society to business in 2007 we calculated our carbon footprint for our performance, has made a major contribution to the emissions in 2006.
Groups risk management policies and processes.
These address strategic risks and those specific to individual This focused on all the areas relevant to our business, businesses and contracts, including economic, social including air, train and road travel company cars, commercial environmental and ethical risks, and are therefore vehicles and hire cars, the consumption of electricity, fundamental to the management of the Group at gas, fuel oil and paper and the production, re-use and every level of our activities.
In 2007 we undertook a Group-wide customer perception This was our first major step towards gaining a comprehensive survey, which sought the views of our customers on a wide understanding of our carbon footprint.
Our findings from range of issues, including the importance of sustainability.
this study showed that we generated 62,296 tonnes of CO 68 per cent of our customers believe sustainability and our 2 in 2006, which has set the benchmark for our programme ability to deliver sustainable solutions to be very important.
to reduce emissions year on year.
We believe that our leadership in sustainability differentiates We employ around 50,000 people in the Group and as us from competitors.
We seek to understand the needs of the nature of our business involves extensive travel we are our customers and their objectives in respect of sustainability studying the effects of our travel policies on our carbon and use our knowledge and skills to meet their needs by footprint.
We have already introduced Company policies to developing sustainable solutions.
We also seek to promote promote diesel powered vehicles and to reduce overall travel.
sustainable solutions by explaining to all our customers how a sustainable approach can not only create positive impacts Our commitment to tackling climate change is also reflected on the environment and on society, but also reduce costs, in the way we work with our customers to provide sustainable increase efficiency and improve the quality of the services buildings, infrastructure and lifetime facilities management we offer.
The Eco-Depot in York, completed in 2007 and pictured Carillions Joint Venture business, Aspire Defence Capital above, is an outstanding example of what can be achieved Works, which is responsible for the construction element of through applying the principles of sustainable design and our 12 billion Allenby Connaught Public Private Partnership construction.
This is the largest timber frame straw bale clad project for the Ministry of Defence, won the top awards for building in Europe, which uses 76 per cent less energy than Sustainable Development of the Year and Best Sustainable a traditional air-conditioned office.
Initiative for the Public Sector, at the 2007 Building magazine Sustainability Awards.
36 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Section 04 04 Governance 38 Board of Directors 40 Report of the Directors 43 Corporate Governance Report 48 Remuneration Report 56 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc PME, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carillion, is a UK leader in the provision of mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance services.
Section 04 Governance 37 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22% growth in dividend
