211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing our business in a way that takes account of the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
The responsible management of such impacts is The key themes for our efforts in 2007 were Cherishing increasingly important to our stakeholders our the Children and the Hospice Movement.
In 2007, the shareholders, our clients, our Partners, our employees, Foundation raised a total of 2.4 million, bringing the our suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
cumulative total raised since its formation to We are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues to be 12.4 million.
included in the FTSE4 GOOD Index, which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate Under Cherishing the Children, any small charity that social responsibility criteria.
In this years report, we has a project in the UK that is for the direct benefit of have sought to provide an overview of how we manage physically disabled children, those suffering from a our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR programme mental condition, or a life threatening or degenerative and highlight five key areas where St. Jamess Place has illness, can apply for a grant from the Foundation.
had a positive impact in 2007: In 2007, the Foundation distributed 42 grants totalling 273,000 under this theme.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation People The Foundation also makes grants to hospices in the UK Clients for support to fund things such as equipment, the cost of Communities complementary therapy or specialist nursing staff.
In Environment 2007, the Foundation distributed 24 grants totalling 155,000 under this theme.
Further information can be found on our website at www.
Over the past year, the Foundation has continued its commitment to Hope & Homes for Children CSR Management & Governance www.
org, a UK based charity which Our Corporate Social Responsibility programme is provides family homes and other support for children steered by a CSR Committee which comprises senior orphaned by war or disaster.
More than 2.6m has been executives from across the business and is chaired by our paid over to Hope & Homes for Children since the Chief Executive, David Bellamy.
The CSR Committee Foundation started its support.
meets quarterly to review the programme.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation The Foundation has been an important part of St. Jamess Place since our formation in 1992.
It is much more than simply corporate philanthropy.
It is the focus for the combined year-round efforts of our Partners, our employees and our suppliers to work together and make a positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
There is a real passion for the Foundation throughout our business.
Hope & Homes for Children 17 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The relationship with Teenage Cancer Trust TCT www.
org has been developed further this year, with payments of 325,000 to support the patient technology in two TCT units in Leeds and Birmingham.
The support to the Birmingham unit included a significant and generous individual donation from one of our former Investment Managers.
TCT aims to open 21 such units around the UK for teenagers with cancer.
CIDA Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key corporate objective.
Everyone at St. Jamess Place focuses on this objective with the same level of rigour and passion that we bring to managing the other key performance indicators for our business.
The Foundations Management Committee, in wide consultation with the community both within and outside of St. Jamess Place, has established a framework for focusing the award of grants.
Once grants have been Teenage Cancer Trust made, we follow up with the various organisations to Further afield, the Foundation also developed a new ensure that funds have been spent as agreed.
This has the relationship with CIDA a non-profit, private, higher impact of bringing us closer to the beneficiaries of our education institution founded in 1999 in South Africa efforts, and further builds the focus and passion of those www.
CIDA is focused on creating a involved.
We have seen a strong trend towards this meaningful financial and economic democracy in South greater level of involvement leading to further Africa through providing students with business and fundraising, and it helps individuals to learn more about technology-based academic qualifications.
CIDA the context and real impact of their fundraising efforts.
develops these future leaders to spread their knowledge to their home communities, teaching vast numbers of Every Partner and employee is encouraged to take part school students, community members and unemployed in, and contribute towards, fundraising events that raise people about financial literacy, entrepreneurship, anything from a few hundred to hundreds of thousands of HIV AIDS and life skills.
Each regional office and department takes funding sponsored 39 students through a three-year responsibility for fundraising led by a local Foundation degree course.
The programme was highlighted at the Representative who helps shape the national approach.
2007 St. Jamess Place Annual Company Meeting where A healthy spirit of competition and rivalry exists amongst two students spoke with passion about CIDA.
Social events, as well as more their presentation, sponsorship of individual students has formal business gatherings, are seen as opportunities been widely taken up by both Partners and employees to raise funds and highlight the needs of others.
and we now sponsor a total of 101 students.
In 2007, the Many of our suppliers support the Foundation through Foundation granted CIDA 127,000. regular donations of cash or goods.
18 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Typical fundraising events have included tandem of Partners, deductions from their gross earnings.
This skydiving, a triathlon where 200 athletes took part, has the benefit of providing a regular monthly income to marathons and ironman challenges.
From time to time the Foundation and enabling the Foundation to reclaim extreme challenges emerge, often starting as the dream the tax relief provided under the Gift Aid scheme.
Over of a single employee and quickly blossoming into a viable 80% of the St. Jamess Place community regularly plan, gaining support and sponsorship.
During 2007, make monthly donations to the Foundation.
This raised these included a Ten Tors challenge across Dartmoor for 325,000 in 2007.
This impressive result demonstrates teams from different offices that raised over 55,000, as the commitment to the Foundation throughout our well as the Mont Blanc Challenge where 15 aspirant Partners and employees at every level.
mountaineers succeeded in climbing Mont Blanc at 15,775 feet, the highest point in Europe.
This event Since 1999, every pound raised by members of the alone raised a staggering 248,000, the highest amount St. Jamess Place community has been matched by of sponsorship of any event in the Foundations history.
This matching totalled 1.2 million in 2007.
The Foundation is a great example of a company acting responsibly whilst simultaneously generating real business benefits.
In our case, the Foundation has made a significant impact in maintaining our core values and reinforcing team working amongst our Partners and employees.
We are confident this has played a large part in the sustained growth of St. Jamess Place.
Looking forward, we already have ambitious plans for 2008 to match, and hopefully better, 2007s phenomenal Foundation fundraising total of 2.4 Ten Tors Challenge million.
People Our Approach St. Jamess Place has published a statement of business practice in the form of a booklet entitled Our Approach.
It is provided to all employees and members of the Partnership and covers areas such as: our objectives: the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and value are maintained: Mont Blanc Challenge our corporate culture and management style: Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the how we deal with internal and external Foundation has consistently promoted regular employee communication: and giving through deductions from payroll and, in the case our commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
19 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The booklet emphasises the values of integrity, trust, We take pride in being a people business and continue to openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to seek employees views and opinions through our annual guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and Employee Survey.
Our 2007 Survey received a response standards.
rate of 83% and our employee engagement was as high as 94% in some areas.
Some of the highlights were that The Partnership 77% of employees feel a strong sense of belonging to The St. Jamess Place Partnership is made up of some St. Jamess Place and believe they are valued for what of the most experienced, able and highly regarded they can offer, 77% are satisfied with the benefits professionals working in wealth management today.
package and 89% of employees would recommend St. Jamess Place as a good place to work.
In addition, They are self-employed business people who represent 91% of our employees are proud to work for St. Jamess St. Jamess Place when advising on the wealth management Place.
The graphs opposite demonstrate how we products and services made available from the Group.
compare with peer benchmarks and how we have made Members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership form a progress since the 2006 Survey.
close bond with the Company and share its core values.
On average, they have over 16 years service in the Employee retention for 2007 is 90.3% and attracting financial services industry and Partner retention has new employees has rarely posed a problem for us.
Days remained very strong in recent years as indeed has lost through sickness across the business currently stands recruitment of new Partners.
at 3.58 days per employee, per year, which is significantly below the national average.
We seek to Partners are encouraged to continually develop their employ the best person for each job and aim to ensure knowledge and expertise.
We offer a wide range of everyone can enjoy equal opportunities in an courses to all Partners to further refine and develop their environment that is free from discrimination of any sort.
skills and they receive regular information and guidance Our workplace gender profile is fairly evenly split with a with regard to changes in legislation or regulation.
total of 350 female and 297 male employees.
A number of them will specialise in particular aspects of wealth management advice, for example, Retirement The performance and development of our people is Planning and Inheritance Tax, or Corporate Advice encouraged and supported through a formalised where Partners will help business owners with anything Performance Development Review process and 88% of from exit strategy to employee benefits.
In all of these employees informed us that their last Review accurately areas we provide specialist support to help Partners reflected their performance.
Our reward package is deepen their knowledge.
competitive with a comprehensive range of benefits provided to all employees including Pension, Life & Critical The remuneration arrangements for our Partners Illness cover and Private Medical cover.
We also provide are designed such that their interests are aligned with the opportunity for all the employees to benefit from clients and support the long term relationships we aspire annual bonuses linked to St. Jamess Place performance.
Recognising the benefit of all employees having the opportunity of an equity interest in St. Jamess Place Our Employees everyone can join the SAYE plan and acquire discounted We firmly believe that our success as a business depends shares.
70% of all employees are currently members of on the people who work here and the people we work this scheme.
Management are also given the opportunity for.
Our employees give us a sustainable competitive to participate in share incentive schemes, further details advantage and the attitude, knowledge and commitment of which are set out in the Remuneration Report.
of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
20 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued We continue to focus on employee training and I feel a strong sense development.
2007 saw a significant relaunch of our programme and a marked increase in satisfaction of belonging to SJP with training and development opportunities amongst 80 our people.
70 77% 74% 60 50 We work hard not only to ensure we create an excellent 51% 40 working environment for our staff and Partners, but also 30 that our offices all comply with Health and Safety 20 10 regulations.
During 2007 the construction of our new 0 SJP SJP Benchmark 45,000 sq.
ft. purpose-built Head Office, in our home 2007 2006 town of Cirencester, was completed and our staff have now moved into this prestigious building.
Ultimately, this will mean that we will have all our head office teams I believe I am valued in two buildings rather than the previous six.
for what I can offer SJP St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness of the 80 statutory and social responsibilities with regard to 77% 70 the recruitment or employment of disabled staff.
Our 67% 60 recruitment procedures are free from bias and 50 53% 40 discrimination and we will always consider possible 30 modifications to our working environment to ensure a 20 disabled person has the chance to take up opportunities 10 0 or promotion.
SJP SJP Benchmark 2007 2006 We ensure that every effort is made to achieve continuity of employment in the event of an employee becoming I would recommend SJP disabled.
Similarly best practice principles ensure that our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity as a good place to work employer.
90 89% 80 83% 70 66% 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 SJP SJP Benchmark 2007 2006 21 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued We remain committed to an open style of communication.
As well as providing advice on a range of products and We keep all of our community informed on a regular services, a substantial part of our business is the basis on matters that might affect their day-to-day work management of our clients money.
We employ and communicate items of interest.
Regular feedback is Stamford Associates, an external firm of consultants, to encouraged and managers are expected to have monthly oversee the performance of our Fund Managers and one-to-ones with team members as well as monthly team report regularly to our Investment Management meetings.
Directors and senior managers regularly visit Committee.
Our approach of selecting the best Fund all SJP office locations to disseminate key corporate Managers, closely monitoring their activities and messages and obtain valuable feedback.
introducing new managers where appropriate has consistently delivered above average investment returns Clients over the medium to long term for our clients.
At the heart of our business is the relationship between our advisers, the members of the St. Jamess Place For clients particularly interested in investing in Partnership, and our clients.
These relationships are environmentally friendly companies and to comply with founded on the principle that every client has different the policy on socially responsible investment by Trustees goals and responsibilities and that therefore each requires of Occupational Pension Schemes, the Group offers individual and personal advice.
By applying this ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies principle, our Partners have developed exceptionally demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
strong and lasting relationships with their clients founded on trust.
In settling life and health claims, we take a positive view and do not hide behind the small print.
Wherever We support and encourage these relationships in two key possible, we will pay claims in line with the spirit of ways.
Firstly, by ensuring that the range of wealth the contract.
We also place great emphasis on management products and services we offer are communicating the characteristics of our products and comprehensive and that they meet both the current and services with clarity and transparency.
future needs of our clients.
Secondly, by guaranteeing the advice given by members of the Partnership when Inherent in everything we do is our desire to be fair and recommending any of the products and services reasonable to clients.
provided by companies in the St. Jamess Place Group.
Communities We also recognise that our clients needs change and that We recognise our responsibility to help build strong and we need to anticipate, understand and respond to these healthy communities in the areas in which we operate.
We therefore consult regularly both with the Partnership and our clients.
With Partners this In July 2007, we launched our Employee Volunteering consultation is through formal surveys and consultation Scheme which supports St. Jamess Place employees groups as well as regular, informal one-to-one wishing to volunteer with schools, charities or local discussions between management and Partners.
For clients, we undertake an annual satisfaction survey as well as more focused research on specific parts of our offering.
Our first annual survey in 2007 delivered very positive results and gave us a clear understanding of what our clients want and expect.
22 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued programmes for vulnerable young people.
Our Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, Hugh Gladman, has joined its board and we are currently working with them on plans to open a youth drop-in centre in the Cirencester area and a number of other initiatives.
Cirencester College has recently been awarded the title of top Tertiary and General Further Education College in the country by the Department for Education and Skills.
The college has over 1,600 students between the ages of 16 and 19 and a further 7,000 students attending a variety of adult learning courses.
We work with the college on its Academy programme which offers Lewisham Youth Theatre vocational courses in areas such as finance, marketing, community groups.
Under the Scheme, our people can IT and law.
We provide mentors and paid internships take up to four days paid leave per year and use this time for Academy students as well as support for other areas to work with charities and other organisations in their of the colleges activities such as its adult financial local communities.
One such group is the Lewisham literacy programme.
St. Jamess Place also sponsors the UKs top-ranked Close to our Head Office location in Cirencester, swimming programme, Loughborough University Gloucestershire we support the activities of both Swimming.
This reflects our belief in supporting Young Gloucestershire and Cirencester College.
a community programme of talented individuals in the build-up to the London 2012 Olympic Games.
Young Gloucestershire is the leading voluntary youth organisation in the county, delivering high-quality Young Gloucestershire Loughborough University Swimming 23 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 20 3 08 12:56 Page 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Environment We use the services of ENTECH who check, monitor and We are extremely focused on managing the growth of produce our annual usage gures.
As can be seen from the St. Jamess Place in a way that takes account of our table below, gas consumption has reduced by 23% and environmental impact.
2007 has been a year of significant electricity usage reduced by 3% based on a full-time progress leading up to Al Gore addressing nearly 3,000 occupancy measure.
Our fuel management systems of our Partners, employees and other stakeholders at provide fuel usage gures, which are added to mileage our Annual Company Meeting at The O2 in January 2008. expense claims to obtain total annual vehicle mileage The issue of climate change is increasingly pressing.
This, along with rail and air mileage, is then used to Al Gore challenged us to be part of the solution.
calculate an overall CO2 gure attributable to travel.
His address has further red our commitment to make Between 2005 6 and 2006 7, there was an increase a difference.
in vehicle mileage driven by increased numbers of employees and greater business volumes.
However, this We measure our environmental data from October to increase has been offset by lower rail and air travel, with the September, which allows sufficient time for our third party result that we have achieved an overall saving by full time providers to produce relevant data for inclusion in this occupant of 13%.
The table below summarises our CO2 footprint for the years 2005 6 and The Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative to 2006 7: inform investors of the risks and opportunities presented by climate change and to inform company management of In the year, we can report a 11% reduction in our CO2 their shareholders views on the issues.
The project issued footprint measured by full time occupant.
This reduction its latest information request, CDP5, in February 2007. has been split across the main areas of gas, electricity, travel In a report on CDP5 produced by Trucost Plc, the and general waste.
environmental research organisation, St. Jamess Place was named as one of the 45 Best Reporting Companies out of the 245 from the FTSE 350 that responded.
This was based on our ability to provide externally veried data on CO2 emissions and purchased electricity.
FTO gures for travel include only those for whom SJP pays travel expenses directly.
The key difference between these two gures are members of the Partnership who are based in SJP ofces.
24 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007 211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:12 Page 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Our new Head Office in Cirencester has been constructed with environmental issues in mind.
It has been designed to achieve a good rating using BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environment Assessment Method, and uses advanced heat recovery technology to increase the efficiency of the heating and cooling of the building.
Other initiatives range from the installation of more efficient high frequency lights, which turn themselves off once no movement has been detected for a pre-defined time, to the fact that we no longer use plastic cups and spoons.
In order to encourage as much recycling as possible, we have removed all personal under-desk bins in favour of providing central general waste and recycling bins.
We Tirunelveli India anticipate an increase in electricity and gas related CO2 three year contract with the Carbon Neutral Company to emissions during 2007 8 as we transition from our older fully offset our carbon footprint.
Through this, we are offices in Cirencester to our new Head Office, prior to the investing in projects such as forestry regeneration in overall rationalisation of our leasehold estate.
Snowdonia, Wales and a renewable energy project in Southern India.
Across all our locations, office paper recycling has increased by 7% during 2007.
We promote the use of recycled paper within our print portfolio and source paper that follows the rules of the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
Other items being recycled include IT equipment, mobile phones and toner cartridges.
We continue to offer electronic communication for shareholders, so that they can elect to receive St. Jamess Place documentation and to vote on AGM resolutions electronically rather than by post, which reduces printing Cirencester Head Office and distribution, financial and environmental costs.
The We continue to work with our energy consultants to eTree initiative remains in place whereby for every achieve the most efficient use of energy and are now in the shareholder that registers to receive their communications second year of a three year contract to provide CCL electronically, a sapling is donated on the shareholders exempt energy from green resources, which has been an behalf in an area selected for reforestation in the UK via important factor in reducing our CO2 emissions footprint.
Woodland Trusts Tree for all campaign.
Further details However, we have recognised that in spite of our continued can be found at www.
initiatives to control our direct carbon footprint, additional steps were necessary.
During the course of early 2007 we A full Environmental Report is published annually on carried out a full evaluation and in June 2007 we entered a our website at www.
