18 Governance Corporate Responsibility The Group has a strong track record as a responsible suppliers and partners.
Those unable to attend the employer, consumer and distributor and now also has event were also able to bid on-line, and we raised senior executive sponsorship to help co-ordinate and a total of 186,000, almost double the funds raised plan our activities.
The funds raised from the auction and employees Our approach will be simple.
We will aim to minimise individual efforts will allow Get Connected to help an our environmental impact through simple but effective even greater number of young people throughout the actions across our stores and support facilities, and UK by developing an on-line presence and expanding mobilise our employees to change working practices their web-chat service to match the hours of the free to support this drive.
Importantly, we will also engage phone line service.
with customers, who are increasingly discerning about who they choose to do business with, based on TreeHouse factors other than our core principles of value and Autism is a life-long neurological condition affecting service.
We are developing a range of solutions that basic communication skills in one in 100 children.
will educate customers and give them practical ways At its most profound, children with autism may never to reduce their own environmental impact.
We will acquire spoken language, require 24-hour care and give a full update on these initiatives next year.
may be perceived to be living in a world of their own.
TreeHouse was established to provide specialist Charity, community and employee activities education for children with autism and provide an The Carphone Warehouse continued its support of its educational centre of excellence for children with two partner charities, Barnardos and Get Connected, autism and related communication disorders.
with a wide range of activities.
TalkTalk, The Carphone Warehouses xed line service, has continued to The shared vision of TalkTalk and TreeHouse of helping partner with TreeHouse, the national charity for autism people to communicate has made this a perfect education, raising funds and developing best practice charity partnership.
TalkTalk has committed to for autism education throughout the UK.
continue to donate 1 penny from every call made to its 118111 directory enquiries service and has At The Carphone Warehouse we recognise that provided extensive marketing support through activity there are many different issues that affect the lives like bill inserts and direct mailing to its customers.
of our employees and have also created The Carphone Warehouse UK Foundation to support Since its foundation in 1997, TreeHouse has occupied those individual charities and local community six temporary homes in North London.
In 2005, projects nominated by employees.
TreeHouse launched an appeal to raise 11.5 million to construct the first National Centre for Autism The Carphone Warehouse supports both its charitable Education.
This permanent building will house partners and The Foundation in many ways, from extended school facilities for autistic children in London donating gifts for sales and rafes, offering extra and will also be home to a national teaching facility, holiday for employees undertaking overseas treks and where services are piloted and evaluated and best other specic volunteering activities, to donating profits practice shared by practitioners throughout the UK.
from the sale of accessories over the Christmas period and Give As You Earn through the payroll.
TalkTalk is committed to helping TreeHouse to see this ambition realised.
Get Connected Get Connected is a free and condential helpline that Borneo Trek can nd and connect vulnerable young people to the Having the opportunity to visit one of the last unspoilt best services in the UK, to assist them with their places on earth, raising funds for The Carphone issues.
The Carphone Warehouse provides ofce Warehouse UK Foundation and gaining hands-on space and accommodation for the service and its experience in a local community project through the volunteers, phone lines and IT support as well as annual charity trek, is a highlight for both employees offering employees the opportunity to earn extra and charities.
holiday or have matched time off to volunteer.
Held in May 2006, this years trek took 53 employees In 2006 The Carphone Warehouse continued its to Borneo with the goal of building the worlds first seven-year relationship with Get Connected offering ever tracking station for the rehabilitation back into additional marketing support to its extensive charitable the wild of previously orphaned Orang-utans.
Each efforts, including free advertising and direct mailings employee raised approximately 2,250 to fund their to its customer base.
trek with a total of 40,000 being raised for The Carphone Warehouse Charity Partnerships in the UK.
In February 2007 Andrew Harrison, a trustee of the charity, hosted its third charity auction at the Pigalle Club, Piccadilly, London, with the continued support of 7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 Governance Financial Statements 19 The success of this self analysis and resulting the timing of the survey so that it is more aligned with activities are reflected in the awards The the business planning process and actions can be Carphone Warehouse has won in the last year.
incorporated into overall business plans.
Sunday Times Best Large Company Diversity and inclusion 7 to Work For 200 The Group recognises the importance of diversity 13th Best Big Company To Work For and inclusion, and has systems in place to recruit employees of different genders, ages, disabilities and 7 Mobile News 200 ethnic origins.
The Group is implementing an online Large Retailer Of The Year recruitment system and is also committed to putting Highly Commended Customer Service in systems to measure diversity across the Group.
Gender and race are, as last year, voluntarily recorded What Mobile 2006 reader voted via BackChat to enable us to monitor inclusion and Best High Street Retailer to recruit from specic groups that we feel are Best Online Retailer under-represented.
Mobile Choice 2006 Regulatory and social responsibilities Best High Street Retailer We continue to operate in a relatively low impact industry and our meetings and discussions with Group businesses on social, environmental and ethical matters give us confidence that both the risks to our Employees business in these areas are relatively low, and also that Our Human Resources teams continue to review controls are in place to ensure compliance with new and improve processes to ensure that the work laws and regulations where necessary.
environment, recruitment, training processes and Below we have identied the key regulatory and social employee satisfaction are of the highest standard.
risks currently affecting the Group.
We have aimed to Historically, one of the key tools we have used to focus our update on areas where there has been a assess these important areas is BackChat, a change in regulation or our approach during the year, completely anonymous online questionnaire that or where new regulation is on its way.
enables us to examine the attitudes of every employee to all aspects of the business.
BackChat, our annual The 2006 survey continued to produce encouraging employee survey, enables results, but also highlighted some areas for further development.
The overall response rate across the us to measure the impact entire Group was 82%.
On the positive side, the most of actions taken to improve favourable scores were recorded in the sections on management style and the day-to-day job, with 87% the working environment of employees understanding how their work contributes towards the success of the company.
75% of employees Mobile phones and driving said they had received training in the last 12 months, up During the year we commissioned some market three percentage points on the previous year.
research into attitudes on mobile phone usage while driving.
The results indicated that legislation had had little Disappointing scores were recorded in areas such impact on drivers habits, with 43% of men and 26% of as quality of work life 49% and communication and women still holding a mobile phone while driving.
Partly in response to this feedback, we have launched a range of new policies this year.
New In February 2007, an update to the Road Safety Bill fathers will now have much greater exibility over when in the UK came into force, increasing the penalty for they take their paternity leave.
Employees on maternity using a mobile phone while driving.
Offenders now leave can now come in for keeping in touch days, face three penalty points on their licence and a ne enabling them to come into work on occasional days of 60.
We raised awareness of the changes with without breaking their maternity leave, and when they our customers, reiterating our hang up or go do return they can do so in a staged process, building hands-free message and running promotions on up their hours over time.
The goal is to keep hands-free equipment.
employees engaged and involved, and to aid the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive & process of returning to work.
Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances For 2007 we will be evolving the BackChat process The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and moving the focus from employee satisfaction WEEE Regulations came into force on 2 January towards employee engagement.
These regulations transpose the EU WEEE www.
com 20 Corporate Responsibility continued Directive, which aims to minimise the impact of Handset recycling electrical and electronic goods on the environment, In an era of global warming and dwindling natural by increasing re-use and recycling and reducing the resources, we are very concerned with the disposal amount of WEEE going to landll.
It seeks to achieve of redundant mobile handsets and offer a service to this by making producers responsible for nancing the dispose of old phones responsibly and raise valuable collection, treatment, and recovery of waste electrical funds for charity.
For every handset received, The equipment, and by obliging distributors to allow Carphone Warehouse is donating 10 to The CPW consumers to return their waste equipment free of Charity Partnership.
In the last year, 10,000kg of old phones were sent to The Carphone Warehouse Limited and TalkTalk The Carphone Warehouses recycling centre.
When Telecom Limited are subject to the regulations both as the phones arrive they are separated into handsets producers and distributors.
The specic obligations are that can be re-sold and those that need to be recycled being rolled out in separate stages: the registration typically around 10% of the total.
No part of the and labelling requirements commenced in March 2007 recycled phone ends up in a landll site: batteries are and on 1 July 2007 the remainder of the obligations used to repair other handsets, metals are recovered will come into force, including nancing, recordfor re-use and parts with no recovery value are keeping and Take-back.
Adult content Once impurities have been removed, the phones We take the risks associated with illegal or abusive plastics can be ground into a ne powder and fed into content very seriously.
In our Distribution business, an injection moulder, producing products ranging from we have a code of practice in the UK to apply to all coathangers to garden benches.
Carphone Warehouse branded web channels.
As well as Carbon emissions clearly classifying content as suitable for adults only, we We have almost completed our far reaching review include pre-requisites to purchasing, such as only selling of energy and utilities consumption and related via credit card to ensure that a customer is over 18.
We are now in In our growing broadband operations, we have negotiations with carbon offsetting schemes and recently opened a dedicated Abuse Management alternative fuel providers for the retail distribution eet, bureau in our Stornoway call centre.
The bureau is and we expect to complete agreements before the staffed by trained and vetted individuals and deals end of 2007.
We have made considerable moves to with issues arising from illegal or abusive content on reduce our carbon footprint through a series of energy the TalkTalk network, and any other content that is efficient measures in both our retail and support alleged to be in breach of our acceptable usage policy.
functions, and our retail stores are now amongst the It liaises directly with the Internet Watch Foundation most innovative and efficient in the sector.
A full report, IWF and, where necessary, the relevant law incorporating emissions measurement and targets, will enforcement agencies.
be included in next years annual report.
In addition, a new platform called StreamShield will Mobile phones and health shortly be deployed.
This performs upstream ltering Throughout the year we have continued to support the of a list of banned websites as specified by IWF.
Government in their research into the effects of mobile phones on health.
Despite the recent conclusion of Environment their three year investigation, which has found that Our stores have a requirement to ensure that all mobile phones are unlikely to damage health, we will packaging and store waste is returned to our continue to support the second phase of research warehouses to be recycled and re-used.
The UK over the next three years.
Additionally, The Carphone monthly buyers guide is made from chlorine free Warehouse continues to provide customers with all of paper and from wood from sustainable forests.
the information on mobile phones and health concerns In addition, the Group has made a commitment to to enable them to make informed decisions.
An ensure that all cleaning products used in its stores and independent and extensive health fact sheet is available at the Support Centre are non-toxic and eco-friendly.
in our stores and on our website.
We also continue to We actively promote non-legislative recycling initiatives list specic absorption rates for every handset in our encouraging the recycling of paper, toner cartridges, Buyers Guide every month, and on our website.
7 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
