Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Managing our business Responsibility Review impact We are securing sustainable energy supplies while demonstrating leadership on climate change and social programmes.
Mary Francis CBE Senior Independent Director and Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee The following sections highlight the challenges we face, the actions Introduction we are taking, our performance during the year and our future commitments and targets.
While we cover a broad range of issues, We operate in a society which puts an increasingly high value our most material CR impact areas continue to be climate change on sustaining the physical environment and nurturing people and the environment: vulnerable customers: and health and safety.
For any organisation, this shift in values raises issues of judgement between short-term gain and longer-term sustainability.
We must therefore devote time and energy to Business conduct understand and manage effectively the social, environmental and economic impact of our operations.
If we do so successfully, we Our Group-wide business principles create a framework to help us can win business advantage and deliver value to our shareholders.
make decisions in line with a consistent set of operating behaviours If we fail, we face reputational and financial risks.
based on trust, integrity and openness.
In 2007 Sam Laidlaw demonstrated his personal commitment Governance and management by leading a programme to update and communicate our principles.
This ongoing campaign will help our employees, The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Centricas business partners and external audiences understand the corporate responsibility CR strategy and activities on behalf of standards we expect.
For example, our managers received the Board.
Since its formation in January 2006, our objectives a guide called Building a better business and were each have been to increase the time devoted to these matters by the required to complete an online learning programme.
Board and senior management: to ensure that the Group has clear policies on managing its key environmental and social impacts: In addition, we began working with our most senior leaders and to monitor the implementation of our policies through clear to create a common set of management behaviours which will targets and performance indicators.
Above all, the Committees help us to build a stronger culture in the business.
These will role is to ensure that our day-to-day business operations respond be developed further in 2008 and will help us to increase our to the opportunities, and avoid the risks, posed by CR issues.
leadership capability and develop our next generation of leaders.
I am pleased that both the Board and the senior management team We also introduced a new responsible procurement policy to have given strong leadership to the Groups CR work during the extend our business principles into our supply chain activities.
In September 2007, I made recommendations to the Board In 2008 we will work with our business partners and suppliers with regard to the Committees ongoing effectiveness and as a to increase their awareness of our policy and our expectations result Andrew Mackenzie, Non-Executive Director, and Sam Laidlaw, in relation to its implementation.
Chief Executive, joined the Committee and we revised the terms of reference.
The reconstituted Committee met for the first time in Go online December 2007 and will provide strong governance in the future.
More detailed information In 2007 the Committee reviewed our strategy for managing key will be published in our 2007 risks and opportunities including climate change, supporting Corporate Responsibility vulnerable customers, health and safety and the way we operate Report in May 2008. in developing countries.
We also strengthened the Groups risk www.
com management and internal audit processes for CR, received regular responsibility reports on the views of external stakeholder groups and contributed to the development of CR communications and reporting.
28 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Key highlights We were recognised as a sector leader Our sustainability performance was Our online CR report was by the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2007 recognised as Gold Class by Sustainable commended by the Asset Management in 2007 Association of Chartered and Certified Accountants in 2007 Listening to stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Performance indicators It is essential that we are alert to evolving trends and opinions 2007 2006 % among employees, customers, policy-makers, investors and Climate change wider stakeholders so that we can fully understand our impact Carbon intensity of UK power on society and the environment and contribute our expertise and generation g CO2 kWh 394 412 4 experience to public debate.
UK household energy efficiency 1 products provided million 17.3 13.5 28 Helping shape the policy environment Lifetime carbon savings for UK We are committed to playing a full and active role in the political household energy efficiency 2 process to support the creation of competitive energy markets products provided million tonnes 1.2 1.0 20 that deliver consumer choice, support vulnerable customers, Social programmes for promote security of supply and facilitate the move towards a vulnerable customers low-carbon society.
Customers on British Gas Essentials social energy tariff 340,000 Competitive markets Health and safety In 2007 we continued to support the creation of a truly competitive Lost-time injuries 1,000 employees 18.7 14.3 31 European energy market.
We welcomed the European Commissions Lost-time injuries 100,000 hours worked 1.03 0.80 29 proposals for the unbundling of electricity and gas transmission 3 Total accidents 100,000 hours worked 5.7 3.9 46 networks and will support their implementation.
In addition, Direct 4 Energy continued to advocate market change across North America Total number of fatalities 0 7 to improve energy market competitiveness and consumer choice.
Local impact 5 6 Total community contributions m 5.2 7.4 30 Reducing carbon emissions 7 Voluntary social contributions m 25 We played an active part in the debate on reducing carbon 8 Mandatory social contributions m 51 emissions, including the development of EU emissions reduction Employees targets and phase three of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme Employee engagement score 3.96 3.84 3 ETS.
In North America, we continued to engage with federal, state 9 and provincial policy-makers as well as industry groups to inform Human capital ROI ratio 2.5 2.1 19 thinking on carbon legislation.
The price of carbon is a significant Employees from ethnic minority 10 factor in our investment decisions and we believe that effective cap groups % 15.2 15.9 4 and trade systems such as the ETS will provide long-term visibility.
Employee gender female male % 30.2 69.8 29.9 70.1 Employees with a disability % 3.2 2.7 19 Talking to investors % has been used to express percentage change.
In 2007 we hosted our fourth annual CR investor roadshow to 1 UK Energy Efficiency Commitment.
brief analysts on our CR strategy and performance on key areas of 3 We stated total injuries 100,000 hours worked in our 2006 Annual Report.
We continued to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability 4 Morecambe Bay helicopter accident: four employees and three contractors.
5 Calculated using London Benchmarking Group methodology.
Index and FTSE4Good indices during the year.
We were recognised 6 Cash donations in the UK during the year amounted to 4.1 million 2006: 6.1 million.
This included a donation of 1.1 million to the British Gas Energy Trust, which supports as a sector leader by the Carbon Disclosure Project and ranked first vulnerable customers.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political in an assessment of UK energy suppliers action on climate change, purposes.
The Group, in the normal course of its business, has paid for its management to attend events at which politicians and other opinion-formers have been present, undertaken by Innovest on behalf of WWF.
Our online CR report was but does not consider these payments to be political donations.
ranked third best in Europe by internet consultancy Jungle Rating.
7 Cost of voluntary programmes to support vulnerable customers in the UK.
8 Cost of mandatory programmes to support vulnerable customers in the UK.
9 PwC Saratoga a measurement of financial return for investment in employee remuneration, benefits and training.
10 2,007 employees in the UK have not disclosed their ethnic profile.
29 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Key highlights 1 17m 380g 10% Energy efficient 2012 target Office energy target UK household energy efficiency To reduce our UK power generation We achieved our target to reduce UK office products provided carbon intensity to 380g CO2 kWh energy use by10% in 2007: we are aiming for a further 5% reduction in 2008 To ensure we maintain this leadership position, we have set a Tackling climate change target to reduce our UK power generation carbon intensity to 380g CO2 kWh by 2012 and aim to go even further by cutting Reducing carbon emissions while securing future energy supplies our intensity to 350g CO2 kWh by 2020. for our customers is a very significant challenge.
But climate change science makes unequivocal the case for a low-carbon This is a significant challenge, but we believe that our focus on future and we have an important role to play in making it happen.
relative, rather than absolute, targets will enable us to reduce Our strategy is to lead the market in responding to growing CO2 emissions and continue to provide secure energy supplies consumer demand for low-carbon products and services: for our customers.
Our strategy to invest in low-carbon generation to maintain our low-carbon position on power generation: such as high-efficiency gas-fired power stations and offshore wind and to work with our employees and suppliers to reduce farms will not only enable us to meet our own targets but enable the environmental impact of our operations.
Centrica to play a key role in meeting broader UK and European emissions reduction targets.
Commercial opportunities In 2007 we launched a new business unit British Gas New Energy Investing in renewables to lead our low-carbon strategy in the UK.
In North America, During the year we acquired 50% ownership of the 72MW Braes we formed a cross-business team to co-ordinate Direct Energys of Doune onshore wind farm in Stirlingshire, Scotland.
We made climate change activities within each business unit.
On both sides good progress with our Lynn and Inner Dowsing development and of the Atlantic, our increased focus on developing innovative submitted a planning application for the construction of the Lincs low-carbon products and services for our customers is an offshore wind farm.
Together with other wind farms in development, important growth opportunity.
our UK generation capacity in the next few years is expected to reach more than1.6GW.
In Texas Direct Energy signed a seven-year deal Low-carbon products to buy the output of AES Corporations 170MW Buffalo Gap Wind 11 British Gas launched Zero Carbon, our greenest tariff available to Farm 3, bringing our total wind power offtake commitment in domestic customers, and introduced a scheme offering a council tax North America to 813MW.
rebate of 500 to customers installing solar panels.
Direct Energy extended its carbon neutral gas programme to Ontario, Alberta and Reducing our operational footprint Manitoba after a successful launch in British Columbia.
It provides We introduced a new Group-wide environment policy to provide customers with the ability to reduce their carbon footprint by clear direction for our programmes and developed a Group offsetting the greenhouse gases they produce in their homes with Environmental Management System ready for implementation, carbon credits that fund clean energy projects around the world.
commencing with British Gas in 2008.
We launched a new company car policy to remove the most polluting vehicles, enabling Energy efficiency all eligible employees to select from cars emitting less than 200g of British Gas remained the largest provider of household energy CO2 per km.
Green parking spaces were also created for cars with efficiency products in the UK, providing more than 17 million emissions below 120g of CO2 per km and for those car-sharing.
Our Green Streets campaign, which links We initiated a Being Green campaign across the Company to 64 households in eight cities across the UK, aims to highlight the encourage employees to help reduce our operational footprint.
positive impact simple energy efficiency products and behaviours can have.
11 Zero Carbon is the name of the tariff.
We offset the CO2 emissions from the gas and electricity customers consume using carbon offsets certified by the United Nations.
Low-carbon power generation Based on verified emissions data under the requirements of the EU Emissions The carbon intensity of the power we generate for our British Gas Trading Scheme.
Carbon intensity figures are based on the average annual emissions from customers is already significantly lower than the other five major all wholly-owned UK power generation assets and all other power generation UK suppliers.
In 2007, 394 grams of carbon dioxide were emitted assets from which Centrica is entitled to output under site-specific contracts for every kilowatt hour g CO in the UK.
2 kWh of power we generated.
30 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Lost-time injuries 100,000 hours worked 1.03 0.80 0.73 21m C 0.5m $ We have committed more than Direct Energys support for the 21 million to the British Gas Neighbor-to-Neighbor programme Energy Trust since 2004 is helping low-income families 05 06 07 free insulation and a winter credit of up to 90 for eligible Serving our customers customers.
We are also investing 3.3 million a year in a further four-year commitment to the British Gas Energy Trust, an As a multinational energy company providing essential services to independent body which helps customers who have the greatest millions of customers every day, understanding their evolving needs is difficulty paying their household bills.
Including these commitments, very important.
Being responsible and responsive in how we manage British Gas will be responsible for around 70p of every 1spent by relationships with our customers is central to our business strategy.
UK suppliers on fuel poverty initiatives.
Delivering value Direct Energys Texas operation expanded its support for the Our priority is to provide our customers with the best value in the Neighbor-to-Neighbor programme to include Dallas and Houston marketplace by delivering good quality customer service and being and now serves 32 agencies across Texas.
Our contribution of competitive on price.
In March 2007 British Gas was the first UK C$500,000 255,000 supplements existing energy-assistance supplier to announce a reduction in its retail prices when wholesale programmes for families experiencing financial emergencies.
energy costs began to fall and we reduced prices again in April.
Although this helped us retain customers, our quality of service Focusing on health and safety remained lower than the standards we expect.
We invested 60 million to help restore service standards in 2007, benefited The health and safety of our employees, customers and others from the recruitment of 800 new customer service agents and who could be affected by our activities is a top priority for us.
made an extensive commitment to training.
As a result, complaints to energywatch fell by 80% during the year and our average time During 2007 we conducted a detailed internal review of our to answer calls reduced by 75%.
Further improving levels of management systems.
This included consideration of the Baker customer service is a key priority in 2008.
Report into BPs Texas Refinery Incident and a strong focus on process safety.
We identified opportunities to reinforce our In response to a significant increase in wholesale energy costs over approach and implemented an action plan with oversight from the the winter period, British Gas was forced to increase retail prices Centrica Executive Committee.
A progress report on those actions in January 2008.
However, we protected 340,000 of our most was presented to the Board at its meeting in December.
vulnerable customers from this increase until 1March 2008.
Although our proactive improvement programmes helped our Supporting vulnerable customers business units to achieve their performance targets overall, Although UK retail energy prices were lower in 2007 than in the the Group experienced an increase in accident incidence rates.
previous 12 months, fuel poverty continued to be an issue.
It is our priority to identify and support these households with a tailored This increase can be linked to a concerted campaign over range of services including energy efficiency, debt alleviation, the last 12-18 months to improve incident reporting in our priority service, financial assistance and support from partner main UK downstream businesses.
We will continue to target a organisations.
year-on-year 4% reduction in time lost from injuries and to support those businesses that have consistently reduced or achieved low In March 2007 British Gas received widespread recognition from injury incidence rates.
government and industry groups following the launch of Essentials, the UKs largest social tariff on the energy market.
This 32 million To build on our strong performance, we have developed a commitment guarantees that up to 750,000 eligible vulnerable programme called Performance Plus to heighten our performance customers can receive our lowest cost offline tariff.
expectations and provide greater resilience in our risk management systems through proactive leadership, behavioural change and Our new Winter Warmer initiative offers sustainable support to continual challenge and review at all levels.
25,000 of the UKs most vulnerable elderly households including 31 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Reward Valuing our people In 2007 we conducted a fifth comparative review of the levels of pay for male and female employees.
The results showed that the The calibre and the conduct of our people are central to building gender pay gap in Centrica is much narrower than published successful relationships with our customers, shareholders, national norms.
We were the first organisation to enable UK business partners and the communities in which we operate.
employees to make a direct contribution to fighting climate change via their flexible benefits allowance which offers a personal carbon During the year we employed an average of 33,908 people: offset in partnership with Pure, the Clean Planet Trust.
28,829 in the UK: 4,839 in North America: and 240 in the rest of the world.
We encourage our employees to own shares in the company by operating a number of all-employee share schemes.
In the UK Employee engagement 12,186 employees participated in Sharesave and 5,873 participated Employees are regularly updated on our performance against our in our Share Incentive Plan.
We want Centrica to be a great place to work and our participated in our Employee Share Purchase Plan.
engagement survey helps us to measure the attitudes and opinions of our employees.
In 2007 more than 84% of employees responded We also operate a Share Award Scheme and a Restricted Share and our overall engagement score increased by 3%, demonstrating Scheme.
Participation in these share schemes is on a highly a high level of commitment from our people.
We maintain regular selective basis at the discretion of the Chief Executive and Group dialogue with representatives of local employee consultative bodies Director, Human Resources.
Neither the Executive Directors nor and recognised trade unions to ensure we fully understand the next tier of executive management is eligible to participate.
Further information on these schemes is given in note 33 to the Financial Statements on page 118.
Diversity and inclusion We are committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all our activities and we continue to support initiatives to provide Investing in communities employment opportunities for people from minority groups in the community, including people with a disability, carers and lone By understanding our impact on the communities in which we parents.
For example, we pledged our support to the Local work, we can develop successful partnerships of mutual benefit.
Employment Partnerships scheme, which aims to help 250,000 We aim to deepen our understanding of social and environmental disadvantaged people in the UK get back into work.
issues and contribute to action that addresses them.
We do this by supporting outside agencies and encouraging our own Following the introduction of the Employment Equality Age employees to get involved.
Regulations 2006, we delivered an awareness and training programme to enable employees to understand the new legislation, 6 In 2007 we contributed 5.2 million to community causes through for which we won an award from the Employers Forum on Age.
5 a combination of cash, time and in-kind support.
Across the Company, our people invested more than 18,000 hours in volunteering Canadas Association for the Fifty Plus recognised Direct Energy activities, which equates to more than 260,000 of in-kind support.
for the opportunities we have created for older employees.
In addition, we received the Alfred P Sloan Award for business In June a memorial service was held for those who lost their lives in excellence in workplace flexibility for our programmes in Texas the Morecambe Bay helicopter tragedy on 27 December 2006.
The and the Stevie Award for the Best Multinational Company first donation from the fund, set up in memory of those who died, in North America.
was made to North West Air Ambulance and a memorial stone was unveiled outside our Heysham base.
In the UK we were recognised as an exemplar employer by Opportunity Now for our flexible working initiatives and Direct Energy completed its three-year support of Youthworks, our diversity recruitment strategy for engineers.
an initiative tackling homelessness among young people, run by Canadian charity Raising The Roof.
In Canada, we supported Training and development Habitat for Humanitys first EnergyStar building project with a Our British Gas Engineering Academy achieved grade one financial donation and products including high-efficiency furnaces.
performance in an Ofsted inspection.
Ofsted commended our efforts to recruit from underrepresented groups, with female In addition, British Gas launched the third phase of Help trainees accounting for almost 13% of all those recruited in 2007.
Yourselves in partnership with Save the Children.
The scheme We also introduced a General Management Development provides grants to young people to tackle issues of social exclusion Programme.
It is an integral part of our talent strategy, which aims in their local communities www.
to build our senior management capability and develop successors for key roles.
