Business and financial review Corporate social responsibility report ESABs Director of Sustainable Development One of the targets set for 2007 was to extend the number of Charter businesses that operate environmental, health and safety management systems certified to international standards.
In January 2008, ESAB received a worldwide certificate from Det Norske Veritas covering all production, sales and central functions as at 1 July 2007 for ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007.
Stefan Larsson Director of ESAB Sustainable Development and Anders Wingqvist MD of Det Norske Veritas, Sweden Approach and policies The Board and the Executive Committee receive a report The Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters every month that summarises EHS performance worldwide, as part of the overall corporate governance framework see using lost time injuries and days away from work or on page 42 and is committed to continuous improvement.
This is restricted duty as the KPIs.
The report also highlights any driven by appropriate policies, management systems and internal EHS audit findings, lists progress during the month operational performance measurement.
The four key policy and plans for the next quarter.
This enables issues most areas that provide the framework for the management relevant to the business to be identified and resources of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR are Health & Safety, focused on any key areas identified.
Environmental, Employment and the Code of Conduct.
Management resources Copies of these policies will shortly be available on the During 2007, EHS management resources were strengthened Companys website www.
both at a senior level and a site level.
A Head of Risk These four policies are incorporated into an overall policies Management, whose primary responsibility is EHS for and procedures manual that applies to all Charter businesses Howden, and a new full-time Director, EHS for North America worldwide.
The manual has been provided to the Managing have been appointed.
Directors of all Charter businesses, who in turn have the At site level, twelve full-time EHS professionals have been responsibility to disseminate the relevant contents to all appointed with responsibility to assist line managers in employees and to ensure operational implementation.
Each business now has a The Company takes a risk based approach to CSR and named individual responsible for supporting and advising line identified the safety of employees as a priority in 2007.
Other management on EHS matters and there is on-going training issues were the selection of environmental Key Performance to upgrade skills as necessary.
Indicators KPIs, training and development, and maintaining Certification of EHS Management Systems the highest standards of integrity.
Certification of the EHS Management Systems has been Environmental, Health and Safety EHS Management a priority as it provides a high level of assurance that the The responsibility for EHS issues follows the general systems being implemented are to an appropriate standard.
This means that local Significant progress has been made in achieving this objective.
line management at each Charter business has primary ESAB gained worldwide certification by the end of 2007. responsibility for: It includes all production operations, sales and central compliance with local regulatory requirements functions within ESAB at 1 July 2007. following Charter policies and procedures It is ESABs aim to include all of the sites of ESAB India and the businesses acquired during 2007 in its EHS Management implementing standards issued by ESAB or Howden System during 2008.
Trained personnel undertake internal audits to ensure compliance with policies and that remedial assessing and managing operational EHS risks actions are taken to correct any audit findings.
These provide an important component in achieving continuous improvement.
implementing management systems and driving Twenty-four audits were completed in 2007, covering most continuous improvement.
of the production operations, four sales operations and the central functions.
In 2008, ESAB aims to extend the In 2007, it was decided that safety performance would be one programme to forty-two audits so as to cover all operations, of the factors taken into account in evaluating the performance including new acquisitions.
32 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 3-month rolling average Lost Days Severity Rate 3-month rolling average 3.5 90.0 85.0 3.0 80.0 75.0 2.5 70.0 65.0 2.0 60.0 55.0 1.5 50.0 45.0 1.0 40.0  Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Howden has continued to make progress by introducing To enable trend analysis, these are expressed per 200,000 accredited systems at its manufacturing locations.
Howden hours worked and tracked on a moving three-month basis.
Spain was recommended for certification to OHSAS In 2008, a further KPI is being added based on the total 18001:1999, and Howden Australia achieved AS ANZ 4801 number of first aid injuries and near misses reported.
Of the fourteen manufacturing and The graphs above illustrate the performance in 2007 and service operations, six are now accredited and a further six show an encouraging picture, with a 24 per cent reduction should complete the certification process during the first half in Lost Time injuries and 14 per cent reduction in Lost Days.
In addition, three of the five engineering offices are certified.
Environmental performance In selecting its environmental impact KPIs, Charter has taken EHS regulatory issues into account UK Government guidelines and the worldwide During 2007, there were no regulatory actions, fines or penalties concerns over climate change and water scarcity.
As a result, as a result of EHS incidents or inspections by the authorities Charter has selected as KPIs the reduction of energy usage and no reportable environmental releases.
both direct and indirect with the ultimate aim of reducing Preparations have started to ensure timely compliance greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and waste with the EU regulation for Registration, Evaluation, transferred to landfill.
Focusing on these KPIs is also expected Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH.
It is to drive efficiency gains and cost savings and will be integrated too early to quantify the full impact on the business as some with the introduction of Lean manufacturing processes.
key aspects of this regulation have not yet been fully defined Data are provided this year for ESAB, which it has been by the authorities.
For Howden, data to enable these Safety performance KPIs to be measured will be collected for both 2007 and 2008 Regrettably, the death of an employee of Howden South so that overall Charter targets can be set.
Overall performance America occurred in March 2007.
The Operations Director should be available for reporting in 2009. was returning from a suppliers factory to his home in Sao The graphs at the top of pages 34 and 35 show totals Paulo and had a road accident.
No other cars or individuals of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and total were involved.
waste to landfill for 1997 and 2006 for all ESAB production Charters operational goal for safety is zero lost time injuries.
These totals have not been adjusted for changes in the Progress towards this goal is monitored by tracking the lost business as a result of acquisitions, disposals, site closures time frequency rate, expressed as a 3-month rolling average, or production line transfers.
and the expectation is to achieve at least a 10 per cent yearDuring the ten-year period from 1997 to 2006, ESABs sales on-year reduction.
have increased by 28.7 per cent.
Energy usage, as illustrated, In 2007, Charter established, for the first time, two global KPIs has reduced by 3.8 per cent in actual terms whilst greenhouse for safety, namely: gas emissions in CO2 equivalents have increased by 20.4 per cent.
There are two main reasons for this increase.
One is that Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, being the number of injuries production volumes have increased mainly in countries where that result in lost time or restricted duty, and electricity is generated using fossil fuels such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The other reason is that Lost Days Severity Rate, being the total number of days some units have switched to less CO2 efficient energy resources.
off work or on restricted duties including weekends or vacation periods, capped at 180 days per injury as per Water consumption and waste to landfill have both reduced OSHA reporting requirements.
by around 60 per cent, primarily as a result of increased recycling.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 33 Business and financial review Corporate social responsibility report continued Total energy in GJ fossil fuels and electricity0000 Greenhouse gases in CO equivalents 000 2 1,630 270 1,620 260 1,610 250 1,600 240 1,590 230 1,580 220 1,570 210 1,560 200 1,550 190 1997 2006 1997 2006 For 2008, ESAB has set environmental targets of reducing Howden has identified a requirement for additional engineers energy, water and waste in production operations by a further with the required level of expertise in its products and industries 5 per cent.
to assist it in achieving its worldwide growth aspirations.
To respond to this, in 2008, Howden will set up the Howden The ESAB data is based on internally reported numbers that Academy, an in-house training school for engineers new to the are checked during internal audits by the central ESAB team.
Company which will deliver focused, non-specific training on Since July 2007, Det Norske Veritas has also been undertaking products and applications.
an external data verification exercise when they visit a site for certification.
No significant errors have been found at the four Whistleblowing sites reviewed so far, which provides further assurance on the Charter has an established whistleblowing policy.
During 2007 validity of the data.
four disclosures were investigated, one of which led to the dismissal of an employee for breach of financial controls.
Employment Retaining, recruiting and training employees is vital to the Employee relations and communications continuing success of the Charter businesses.
During 2007, ESAB is continuously improving its communication channels the average number of employees increased from 10,420 with employees.
In addition to issuing Lets Talk, which to 12,180 including acquisitions.
Over 500 of this increase is a bi-weekly internal newsletter that includes community is attributable to organic growth, thus generating socioinitiatives and staff stories, as well as customer wins and economic benefits for the communities in which employees live.
company projects, ESAB now produces The Wire.
This focuses on updating employees on ESABs strategy and Equal opportunities new business initiatives and is translated into the 12 main Charter has complied with anti-discrimination laws in all languages spoken by ESAB employees around the world relevant jurisdictions concerning matters of gender, ethnic and is issued twice a year.
origin, age, religion, sexual orientation, or disability.
Howden continues to produce the Team Brief every two Charter recognises and values diversity in the workforce months and every six months, a Group newsletter.
Works and all recruitment, selection and promotion is on the basis councils and other consultative bodies are also used to of individuals qualifications, skills, experience and merit.
Training and development of people Community involvement Charter businesses invest in employees skills and capabilities Many Charter businesses support local charities through through a variety of programmes, including training and fundraising or other forms of assistance.
There is no central succession planning.
Over 22,000 man-days were spent reporting currently in place, but, based on the information on training in 2007 and this will increase in 2008 as there submitted, over 0.1 million was donated during 2007. is continuing investment in developing skills.
ESAB Brazil continues to participate in Cidades da Solda ESAB has continued with its Henley Leadership programme Welding Towns, a project which is targeted at training people which now has an alumni of over 50 people.
During 2007 to gain a qualification in welding.
Cidades da Solda has a further 18 individuals completed the first part of the programme set up three units located in the cities of Coronel Fabriciano, which will be completed during the third quarter of 2008.
Contagem and Betim, in the state of Minas Gerais, close A high potential talent programme is being piloted which will to ESAB Brazils plants.
Twice a year, six new groups of result in two candidates being selected to commence a threedisadvantaged young people are trained at the units and year International Development programme.
Lean manufacturing from this experience they develop a new social perspective, training has continued and, in January 2008, a Global Project opening up new job opportunities for them.
ESAB Brazils Management training programme commenced.
participation in this project involves the donation of equipment used in the welding workshops and the provision of technical support to the professionals who give the lessons.
34 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Water consumption in metric tonnes million Total waste to landfill in metric tonnes 000 18.0 3.0 16.0 2.5 14.0 12.0 2.0 10.0 1.5 8.0 1.0 6.0 4.0 0.5 2.0 0 0 1997 2006 1997 2006 Code of Conduct Charters Code of Conduct provides the framework for the behaviour expected of all employees in conducting themselves, whatever their role and wherever they are located.
It is the responsibility of all Charter businesses and employees to ensure the Code is followed and that all supporting policies and procedures are complied with.
Compliance with competition laws is seen as a priority and the roll-out of structured competition compliance training for relevant employees will take place during 2008.
