Corporate Responsibility Report growth and maintaining leadership in the Groups chosen CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY markets.
The Board believes that all injuries are MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY preventable, and management systems and a long term The Board fully acknowledges its obligation to ensure the strategy have been adopted to ensure that we continually responsible operation of the Groups businesses at all times improve our performance and reduce risk within the with due regard to the interests of shareholders, constraints of what is reasonably achievable.
employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and manage their health, safety and environment hazards, set maintaining the Groups policies in this area, and the objectives, monitor progress by regular measurement, audit Chief Executive is accountable to the Board for ensuring and review, and take additional action where necessary.
that the Groups businesses adhere to these policies.
Each Managing Director is responsible for the management of health, safety and environmental issues within their BUSINESS CONDUCT business and for providing adequate resources to satisfy The Group has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which the Boards requirements.
The Group management and requires our employees and our businesses to comply with business heads have regular meetings to ensure that all applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in these objectives are being met.
We also ensure that all sites which we operate.
The managing directors of each business handling energetic materials are subjected to annual are required to report to the Chief Executive on compliance audits.
The audits of the US businesses were strengthened with the Code of Business Conduct on an annual basis.
in the year by the addition of OSHA type inspections and process safety management audits.
Our US businesses are currently in the process of implementing an ethical compliance programme to satisfy We recognise that a key element in the continual new US Government requirements for ethical training for improvement of health, safety, and environmental employees, compliance audits, an employees hotline, and management is sharing best practice and lessons learnt related investigation procedures.
from incidents across all of the Group companies.
A common incident reporting and investigation procedure is Arrangements exist by which all employees may, in in place, as well as an alert system that formally ensures confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties.
key findings from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational sites and actions taken as appropriate.
All POLICY ON THE SALE OF GOODS AND accidents and near misses are investigated.
An annual SERVICES Group HS&E Conference is attended by representatives The Groups strategy is to become the world leader in the from all businesses.
manufacture of energetic material products for the global In addition to the introduction of ISO14001, the defence market, and we are presently delivering significant development of automated production and other plans to growth in this area though a combination of organic address principal risk areas during the year, all operational development and acquisitions.
The scope of the Groups sites reported a number of improvements to health, safety activities has significantly widened over the last few years, and environmental management and performance.
In particularly with regards to the supply of components and particular: sub-systems for various types of munitions, and there is Kilgore achieved more than 2.7 million hours worked increasing demand for the supply to our customers of third without a lost time accident party products.
Consequently, the Board introduced a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services during the year, Technical Ordnance were given the South Dakota which provides guidance to all stakeholders on the Governors Safety Meritorious Award products and services that the Group will supply and to Chemring Defence UK, Derby, and Chemring which customers, and sets out a clear definition of what we Countermeasures, Salisbury, both halved their number will not supply.
of lost time accidents compared to the previous year The Board monitors health and safety performance HEALTH AND SAFETY through the quarterly reporting of Key Performance The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are Indicators, which include lost time accidents, near misses required in order to protect our employees, whilst achieving and action management.
These were reviewed during the CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 23 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 2006 2007 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report CONTINUED year and have been expanded this year to include data on We are continually improving our waste management and employees placed on restricted duties due to work-related percentage of waste recycled.
During the year, the Group injuries.
In addition, the Chief Executive reports monthly to recycled approximately 83% of its general waste and 78% the Board on all key health and safety issues.
of hazardous waste, compared to 76% of a combination of both last year.
All businesses are tasked with achieving During the year under review, the overall Group lost time further improvements to their recycling proportion.
accident rate remained unchanged from last year at 0.76 per 100,000 hours.
However, this figure includes the eleven lost time accidents which occurred as a result of the Recycled general waste proportions explosion at Simmel Difesa in October 2007.
The lost time accident rate excluding this incident was 0.54 per 100,000 3% hours, a reduction of 29% compared to last year across the rest of the Group, and a 44% reduction from 2005.
Lost time accident rate per 29% 100,000 hours 2 1.5 68% 1 0.5 0 Paper and other Metal Wood In October 2007, in order to drive further improvements in The Board monitors environmental performance through the management of health and safety within the Group, the the quarterly reporting of Key Performance Indicators, Board set the goal of generating an overarching corporate which include energy use, waste management and framework and implementing a common safety culture recycling.
For the current year, the Group will put in place across the Group.
A project team has been established with formal mechanisms for calculating CO contributions from 2 the initial remit to review effectiveness and efficiency of direct and key indirect sources, such as international travel.
Group and divisional health and safety management The table below provides an estimate of our direct CO 2 arrangements, and to review the current health and safety contributions from the usage of electricity and gas and the culture.
These reviews will result in a series of actions burning of oil at our sites during the year under review.
aimed at the development of a common culture initially in the UK, then Europe, and then in the US.
We are aiming for all operational sites to achieve Tonnes CO Equivalent 2 certification to the OHSAS 18001 safety and health Electricity 21,556 management system by the end of 2008.
Gas 11,931 Oil 2,878 ENVIRONMENT Total 36,365 The Board believes that environmental protection will help to secure the long term future of our businesses.
The Groups Health, Safety and Environment Policy states that Last year we reported that we were aiming for the majority we will control pollution, minimise the quantity of material of sites to be certified to the environmental management burnt at each site, consume resources efficiently, and use system ISO14001 by the end of 2007.
Seven of the ten materials that minimise the environmental impact of our operational sites achieved this goal, and we are planning operations where practicable.
24 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 LTA Rate for the remainder, plus the three newly acquired charitable causes with a focus on the military and armed businesses, to complete their certification by the end of services, and those linked to the local communities in which this year.
Certification provides the businesses with a the Groups businesses operate.
At a Group level, charitable strong foundation for continual improvement.
donations are considered on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally EMPLOYEES held charity budget.
Examples of support provided during the year include: The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Donations to charities including the Queen Alexandra Groups employees make to its success, and aims to provide Hospital Home and other local hospitals, the Mary Rose a working environment that reflects and rewards this.
Appeal, and funds assisting the families of those serving During the year under review, the Group employed an in current military activities average of 2,592 employees in seven countries.
Sponsorship of Irvine Rugby Football Club in Scotland The Group pursues a policy of employee communication Sponsorship and promotion of marine safety initiatives through meetings including team briefings and works in the UK and Australia councils and in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the progress of the Group and the In addition to making cash donations, the Group also companies in which they work.
We plan to introduce a encourages and supports employees who undertake Group magazine over the forthcoming year.
voluntary work in the local community, where appropriate.
During the year, our employees donated their time and We continue to address training and development services on a wide range of projects, several of which had requirements for employees at all levels within the an educational bias.
At Chemring Countermeasures in the organisation.
We are in the process of implementing a UK, a work experience programme was established for local tailored management development programme for senior students, and HR personnel assisted with training in managers in the Group.
Succession planning and the future interview techniques at nearby schools.
Employees from organisational structure of the Group as it continues to Chemring Australia provided assistance to the Lions Club grow are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
for special needs children and were involved with a Victoria The Board is seeking shareholder approval for the Police Streetsmart handbook initiative for local teenagers.
establishment of an SAYE share option scheme at the The Group is involved with a number of educational forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Employees across the initiatives, notably including the sponsorship of a Schools Group will be encouraged to join this scheme, in order that Science Prize for secondary schools in North Ayrshire, and they can share in the future success of the Group.
the provision of scholarship donations to Duel County The Group employs disabled persons wherever School in South Dakota for graduating students.
In addition, circumstances permit, and full and fair consideration is the Group has recently entered into a partnership given to applications for employment by disabled persons agreement with Cranfield University, under which the having regard to their particular aptitudes and disabilities.
Group will provide significant funding for research activities Disabled persons in employment receive equal treatment to over the next five years.
that afforded to other employees, in line with the Groups With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities philosophy of equal opportunities for all employees, on the local community, at locations where our operations irrespective of race, nationality, gender, disability or age.
may inconvenience neighbours through product proofing, The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the we liaise with local residents to minimise any impact.
In the labour rights and legislation requirements in each country UK, Chemring Marine is working with government in which it operates, and in practice, often exceeds these.
authorities and voluntary organisations to develop a flare disposal policy for out-of-date flares, which might otherwise COMMUNITY find their way into the wider community outside of the The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses marine industry.
has an important role to play in its local community.
The Board adopted a charitable policy during the year, which confirmed its commitment to support selected CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 25
