Operating and Financial Review Joint Venture Portfolio Valuation Net Rent Finance BL Interest 1 2 Portfolio JV Partner m m m m BLT Properties Ltd Tesco PLC 363 15 185 93 1 retail park, 8 Tesco superstores Tesco BL Holdings Ltd Tesco PLC 705 29 315 154 2 retail parks, 2 shopping centres each anchored by Tesco, 5 Tesco superstores Tesco British Land Property Partnership Tesco PLC 109 5 45 20 district shopping centre anchored by Tesco Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership Tesco PLC 652 29 487 84 21 Tesco superstores The Scottish Retail Property Land Securities PLC 703 37 430 107 Limited Partnership shopping centres in Aberdeen and East Kilbride BLFraser Ltd House of Fraser PLC 296 14 130 70 12 department stores 3 Eurofund Investments Zaragoza SL Private Investors and Copcisa Corp 154 16 73 Puerto Venecia, out-of-town shopping scheme 1 2 3 Annualised BL share of net assets Development project market where outperformance is going to be delivered through Joint Ventures superior rental growth and an activist approach to asset selection The Joint Ventures provide British Land with access to desirable and management.
properties often off market, within a separate entity formed for the To accomplish our performance goals and the shift in business purpose, and controlled on a 50:50 basis by a board carrying equal model, the Company is engaged in a process of management representation from each partner.
The entities are able to raise renewal and culture change, targeting a high performance, open finance on the strength of their assets, usually with no support and meritocratic culture where its people are motivated individually from the partners, thereby significantly lowering the initial equity and as a team to outperform competitors, subject to maintenance investments and enhancing returns on capital.
The enterprise is of quality and security overall.
shared by the partners, over a specific agreed lifetime for the venture.
During the year that process has included: reinforcement of the annual appraisal process introduced Key activity since April 2006 included: in 2005 with specific financial and non-financial goals for In March 2007 a fourth joint venture with Tesco PLC was formed, executives, and alignment of the remuneration structure to The Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership.
The 650m portfolio has an support performance against objectives initial rent of 29m per annum from 21superstores let to Tesco.
succession planning for a number of key retirements during The formation in May 2006 of the new joint venture in respect of the period Zaragoza, Spain, to develop a 2.2 million sq ft out-of-town recruiting further property professionals to assist the execution shopping scheme.
of our intensive asset review and management process The acquisition of the outstanding 50% ownership of BL Davidson expanding our development team in response to the increased for approximately 256m in August 2006. programme activity reshaping the Finance & Tax teams following the major restructuring Although some of the Joint Ventures have different year ends from of the Groups internal corporate structure on REIT conversion.
British Land, the accounting periods recognised have now been aligned to the Groups March year end using management accounts, At a time of intense business activity, our staff have responded to the to assist the requirements of quarterly reporting.
challenges presented by major changes in the composition of our teams.
The summary details of the principal Joint Ventures in which Our move to a new Head Office is aimed at providing our staff we have a 50% share are shown above.
with the modern efficient environment we offer to our customers and we are already reaping the benefits of improved communication People and effectiveness at York House.
Individuals are essential ingredients in our long term success.
It is important that we retain and attract motivated and skilled Forward looking statements professionals able to deliver our strategy and work effectively in a small and focused team.
In preparing this Business Review we have had regard to the The business model is people light and asset heavy it leverages recommendations and guidance issued by the Accounting Standards the work, skill and judgement of a relatively small staff over a large Board, insofar as we consider they are relevant to our business model value of efficiently financed assets.
The strategy and business and industry.
We have provided herein a commentary on our markets, changes introduced in 2005 are designed to emphasise the human activities and prospects.
Readers will understand that where we value added in order to lift performance at the property level, whilst make forward looking statements they reflect our current views: retaining efficient translation to profits and net asset value via future results will depend on many factors and interactions which financial and fiscal structure.
This is all the more important in a may cause outcomes to differ from those anticipated.
The British Land Company PLC 37 Running Head IN A HIGHLYCOMPETITIVE MARKETPLACE, VISIBILITY DRIVES SALES We chamfered the balcony edge to improve sightlines between ground and first floor levels.
This subtle adjustment improves our retailers branding and helps them attract shoppers.
