CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY This is our fifth year of corporate responsibility reporting.
Reporting resource use This section provides a summary of our corporate responsibility We use energy to power lighting, heating, ventilation and cooling, activity.
Our full Corporate Responsibility Report is available online and for cleaning activities.
We use water for domestic facilities, in a format that is designed to be widely accessible and provide easy cooling and landscape watering.
This corporate responsibility section contains We record energy and water information for the common an overview of our: landlord-controlled areas of our multi-let properties.
These are the approach to corporate responsibility management: areas where, as landlord, we control usage and can directly effect focus areas of risk and opportunity: resource use, waste improvements.
Information for April 2005 to March 2006 is compared management, regeneration, biodiversity, British Land people, to information for the same period in 2004 5, according to community and occupiers and suppliers: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA progress against a selection of 2006 targets: and guidelines.
Information was reported from properties with a total 2 key performance indicators, objectives and targets for 2007. common floor area of 1.49 million square metres m in 2005 6, a 42% increase on 2004 5.
3 View our full Corporate Responsibility Report at Total water use decreased by 16% to 417,926 cubic metres m www.
Approximately 60% of our total reported water usage was in offices and over 30% was in shopping centres.
Overall intensity of 3 2 3 2 water use decreased from 0.82 m per m in 2004 5 to 0.51 m per m Managing corporate responsibility 2 in 2005 6.
Residential properties used water most intensely per m As one of the UKs largest property investment companies compared with other property types.
During 2006 we sold our we finance, develop and manage property for the long term.
residential portfolio and so our water management activities now Our integrated approach to corporate responsibility helps in our focus on our shopping centre and office portfolios.
development and management of sustainable, commercially viable Total consumption of all energy types electricity, gas and oil properties that are attractive to occupiers, leading to better returns decreased by 4% to 66,041,930 kWh in 2005 6.
Associated CO 2 for our shareholders.
Taking our corporate responsibilities seriously emissions also decreased by 2.7% to 22,527 tonnes in 2005 6.
This helps us meet existing and potential regulatory requirements, and slight decrease reflects year on year changes in the composition of also protects and enhances our reputation.
the property portfolio as well as year on year reductions in reported The Board regularly reviews risks to the business, including those resource use by properties.
arising from corporate responsibility issues.
Peter Clarke, Executive Electricity use accounts for almost 80% of the total CO emissions 2 Officer, chairs the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and reports from the property portfolio and represents our most intensive source to the Executive Committee and Board.
2 of CO per m. Gas use accounts for almost all of the remaining CO 2 2 The Corporate Responsibility Committee, consisting of heads of 2 emissions and is our most intensively used energy source per m. department and senior representatives, takes direct responsibility for Oil use, which was reported in only one of our properties, makes a targets.
This Committee also oversees working groups, each focusing minor contribution to our CO emissions and remains consistent 2 on a key area, such as the supply chain.
In 2006 we continued to focus on the seven areas of risk and Total CO emissions associated with electricity use in offices 2 opportunity agreed in 2005 following a two year consultation process decreased by 16.6% to 6,938 tonnes in 2005 6, largely due to the with shareholders, employees, occupiers, local communities, suppliers energy management activities at Broadgate.
Total CO emissions 2 and experts.
These focus areas will be reviewed again in 2007. for electricity in shopping centres increased by 10% to 9,787 tonnes Our approach to corporate responsibility is underpinned by in 2005 6, largely due to data from two additional properties and a policies and documents including our Corporate Responsibility Policy, significant increase in electricity reported from one shopping centre.
Sustainability Briefs for Developments and Refurbishments, Service Total CO emissions for electricity in other properties increased by 2 Commitment for Occupiers, Waste Management Plan, Biodiversity 56% to 1,154 tonnes in 2005 6, due to the inclusion of one retail Programme and sustainable Travel Plans.
You can download these at property which reported high consumption: the accuracy of this www.
htm propertys data will be reviewed in 2007.
Total CO emissions associated with gas use in offices decreased 2 Resource use by 13% to 4,043 tonnes in 2005 6, largely due to properties reporting a decrease in use and fewer reporting properties.
Total CO emissions 2 Carbon neutral company for gas use in shopping centres increased by 16% to 605 tonnes in Earlier this year we announced the decision to become carbon 2005 6 due to more centres reporting gas use and an increase in gas neutral by 2008 9.
The target will be achieved through on-going 2 use.
However, CO emissions per m for gas use in shopping centres 2 measurement and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, by decreased by 65% to 1.9 kilograms in 2005 6, largely due to newly maximising energy efficiency, increasing the use of renewable energy reporting properties reporting a low consumption relative to common and by using offsetting as a final step to achieve carbon neutrality.
We will also continue to work in close partnership with suppliers and customers to help them to reduce their carbon footprints.
40 The British Land Company PLC Corporate Responsibility Other initiatives 324,000 litres of rainwater harvested and used for landscaping, cleaning and flushing toilets at Meadowhall Shopping Centre.
140 cycle spaces at Regents Place as part of our sustainable Travel Plan for the area.
11% Meadowhall Shopping Centre reduced energy consumption by 11% in 2006, reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
Waste management Resource recovery at Meadowhall Responsible waste management reduces our impact on climate change, saves valuable resources and can reduce disposal and transport costs.
In 2005 Meadowhall became the first UK shopping centre to develop an on-site Resource Recovery Centre.
The Centre invested 35,000 in facilities to sort, separate and send materials for recycling, 324 cubic metres of rainwater were harvested and re-used including paper, cardboard, plastics and metals.
at Meadowhall in 2006 In 2006 it is estimated that the return on investment was over 100,000.
This was due to the savings on transport and disposal costs, Energy use and carbon dioxide emissions combined with the revenue from the segregated materials.
In 2006 Monitoring and managing energy use reduces our carbon dioxide 92% of waste entering the Resource Recovery Centre was recycled.
emissions, minimises the impact of increasing energy prices and By working in partnership with Crown Hill Employment, adults helps us to meet existing and future regulatory requirements.
with learning difficulties benefited from job opportunities at the We have been working with the Carbon Trust since 2003 to recycling facility.
They are now able to work without the support develop and implement our energy benchmarking tool, which provides of carers from Crown Hill Employment and are extremely good an active means of controlling energy use in the common landlordat running the facility efficiently while maintaining an excellent controlled areas of our portfolio.
In 2006 we rolled it out to managing working atmosphere.
Based on initial findings, we carried out energy surveys for seven properties and developed improvement recommendations Regeneration covering aspects such as management and control of services, Regeneration at Regents Place lighting, space heating, ventilation and building fabric.
The Regents Place Masterplan aims to help transform areas As well as benchmarking the energy performance of the common of Euston Road in London into a vibrant place, with street life, areas of our portfolio, we engaged with occupiers at Broadgate to attractive landscaping, major squares and green spaces.
monitor and manage the areas that they are responsible for.
We are Following two years of consultation, detailed planning permission also evaluating the energy performance of our development projects was received for our development at Osnaburgh Street in Regents and assessing the likely Energy Performance Certification level of two Place.
This scheme will include residential units with over 50% development projects, Ropemaker Place and The Leadenhall Building.
affordable housing, high quality offices, a community theatre and As part of the carbon management programme we are reviewing shops around a new public space.
We are now working with the local opportunities to reduce carbon dioxide CO emissions by 2 communityto managethe project with minimal .
switching to no or low-carbon energy sources.
67.5% of the CO 2 We have also been consulting with stakeholders about proposals emissions reported for the common areas of our portfolio in 2005 6 for more offices, residential units and community facilities in the was from energy supplied entirely from Climate Change Levy north-east quadrant of the estate.
The proposals include high quality exempt sources.
offices, community facilities and new landscaped routes.
Following stakeholder feedback, there will be a new community One Stop Shop, Annual CO emissions CO tonnes per year 2 2 a new community arts centre and a larger performance space with 2005 6 2004 5 2003 4 increased seating at Triton Square.
Electricity kWh 17,879 17,980 18,269 In 2006 we invested 100,000 in a joint project with Transport for Gas kWh 4,648 5,173 5,998 London and Camden Council to design improved pedestrian access Oil kWh 0.17 0.312 35 at the Euston Road underpass.
We also worked with Squint Opera, Total 22,52723,15324,302 Edco, Farrells and South Camden Community School to review Total CO emissions tonnes are calculated by converting reported energy use into kilograms of 2 how the area could be improved.
As part of Enterprise Week and CO using DEFRA conversion factors.
2 the London Architecture Biennale, a group of 14 year olds created All CO2 calculations include emissions from energy used in properties supplied by Climate a video of ideas for the area.
Change Levy exempt sources through the National Grid.
During 2005 6, 100% of the electricity 2 Visit www.
com crReport 2006 to view the supplied to properties, with a total common floor area of 422,624m, was from Climate Change Levy exempt sources, which represents 85% of the total reported CO2 emissions associated Hustle and Flow video.
with electricity and 67.5% of total reported emissions.
The British Land Company PLC 41 Corporate Responsibility Our property management teams have responsibility for community Biodiversity funding decisions at our properties.
This enables a speedy response Our Biodiversity Programme and entrusts decision making to those who are most familiar with the By enhancing local ecosystems our properties are more attractive needs of their local communities.
In 2006 local sponsorship included: places to work, live in and visit, and are thus more attractive to occupiers.
Eastgate Shopping Centre supporting St Lukes Hospice.
The British Land Biodiversity Programme, published in 2005, Teesside Shopping Park supporting a multi-use games area.
promotes the consideration of biodiversity at each stage of the Meadowhall Shopping Centre supporting the European property lifecycle.
We manage and enhance biodiversity at our properties through Biodiversity Action Plans BAPs.
In 2006 we implemented siteOccupiers and suppliers specific BAPs forTeesside Shopping Park and Regents Place Customer satisfaction and developed them for Meadowhall Shopping Centre and Blythe The value in our portfolio comes from customers choosing to lease Valley Park.
We are committed to continuing to develop the ways we Our Urban Generic BAP and our Soft Landscape Generic BAP work to support our customers own business needs more effectively.
can be implemented across the portfolio at properties which do not In 2006, based on occupier feedback, we made a number of require their own site-specific BAP.
They contain generic measures, changes to improve how we manage our properties: for instance relating to providing habitats for birds and bats.
We established a Key Account Programme involving our senior management for 85 occupiers.
British Land people We published Our Service Commitment to occupiers and began Move to York House using it to manage the performance of our employees and our An efficient and high quality Head Office that is designed and managing agents.
equipped to meet the needs of our people.
Following a review of our managing agents we implemented During 2006 we prepared for our Head Office move from Cornwall changes to improve service to occupiers, including consolidating Terrace, London NW1, to York House, London W1, in Spring 2007. our managing agents from 19 to 9, establishing new contract A Relocation Committee, consisting of senior managers and terms and agreeing key performance indicators.
This Committee consulted with employees We reviewed our service charge management and introduced and experts to ensure that York House meets the needs of our people.
a number of changes to ensure that we exceed the standards Employees were updated about progress through newsletters set out in the new Service Charge Code.
and a section on the Companys Intranet.
We also consulted them We reviewed and amended the licence application process on various features of the new offices including printing, faxing and for our London office portfolio, streamlining the process and telephone requirements, as well as the chairs and desks that they reducing bureaucracy for our customers.
During December 2006 tours of York House were organised to discuss seating and operational arrangements.
We also continued to support customer service through our active The fit out of the property was guided by the British Land involvement in Real Service, a benchmarking group dedicated to Sustainability Brief.
Nearly 500,000 was invested in corporate helping the real estate industry improve customer service and responsibility measures, including installing cycle racks, showers generate improved performance.
A draft Travel Plan forYork House was developed in December 2006: it will be published in 2007.
Progress against targets 2006 Community strengthening local ties Assurance by Bureau Veritas Investing in the future Below we review the progress we made during 2006 of just a few of By supporting good causes we enhance our reputation.
Supporting our targets set out in our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report: for local initiatives also builds our relationships with local stakeholders.
a full report on how we have performed please see our online report.
In 2006 we invested over 650,000 in good causes, such as education, the arts and sport.
Our sponsorships included: Corporate responsibility management The British Land UK Chess Challenge.
Consider corporate responsibility issues within investments The British Land National Ski Championships for the 28th Sustainability Guide for Property Acquisitions launched in October 2006. consecutive year.
The British Land British Open and Amateur Championships British Land people for Real Tennis for the 13th year.
Ensure staff needs are considered before and after the Head Office move Relocation Committee established, information provided in staff newsletters and on the Intranet, staff and external experts consulted and staff tours conducted of York House.
42 The British Land Company PLC Corporate Responsibility Occupiers and suppliers Occupiers and suppliers Engage with occupiers to build closer relationships Objective: Deliver improved customer satisfaction Heads of Asset Management contacted 85 key occupiers about how we manage Target: Undertake an occupier survey and achieve 30% improvement in our properties.
Key Account Programme and Service Commitment developed.
Programme of meetings with occupiers.
Further KPI: Average occupier satisfaction rating %.
independent consultation with occupiers commissioned for 2007.
Objective: Engage with first tier suppliers consultants and contractors to raise Engage with first tier suppliers consultants and contractors to raise awareness awareness on environmentally and socially sound goods and services of environmentally and socially sound goods and services Target: Distribute Corporate Responsibility System Documentation Guide Training presentation on corporate responsibility sent to all Head Office to all managing agents and development project teams.
KPI: % of timber from Forest Stewardship Council FSC or equivalent Distribution of letter on corporate responsibility principles, that British Land certified sustainably managed sources.
expects its suppliers to adhere to, piloted with suppliers in 2006.
Regeneration Regeneration Objective: Contribute to the regeneration of socially deprived areas where we operate Contribute to the regeneration of socially deprived areas where we operate Target: Continue to raise awareness and uptake of the Scottish Vocational Retail Foundation Degree established in partnership with Sheffield College and Qualification in Retailing which is delivered through the Glasgow Fort Sheffield Hallam University and to be delivered at The Source at Meadowhall by Partnership for employees and occupiers at Glasgow Fort.
Target 60 Sheffield College from 2007. participants signed up to the course in 2007.
KPI: % of construction employment that is drawn from the Community local community.
% of employees at Meadowhall from the local community.
Manage relations with communities to achieve social and business benefits British Lands Head of Internal Audit mentored a senior GP at Fountayne Road Community Health Centre in Hackney.
Broadgate Estates Technical and Environmental Director mentored the Headteacher at St John the Baptist School in Hackney.
Objective: Manage relations with communities to achieve social and business benefits Target: Employees to work with children from two primary schools in Camden Resource use on an architecture based project.
KPI: % of managed properties where British Land actively engages with Promote efficient use of energy and water the community.
Members of the Broadgate Environmental Working Group identified carbon dioxide emissions relating to their properties and adopted a Carbon Emission Resource use Reduction Charter.
Objective: Promote efficient use of energy Waste management Targets: Work with Broadgate occupiers to pilot the inclusion of their energy data within the performance benchmarking process.
Maximise opportunities for waste avoidance and reduction Complete decentralised low carbon energy feasibility studies at 92% of the accepted material at the Meadowhall Shopping Centre Resource York House and Broadgate.
KPI: For common landlord areas of managed properties: Biodiversity 2 CO per m. 2 Safeguard and enhance biodiversity 2 KWh of energy used per m. At Teesside eight of the ten Biodiversity Action Plan actions were completed, % of energy from Climate Change Levy exempt sources.
including the creation of two floating islands in a balancing pond.
At Regents For developments: Place progress was made on all Biodiversity Action Plan actions with completion % better than Building Regulations Part L2: 2006. scheduled for 2007.
Waste management Targets 2007 Objective: Minimise waste and maximise recycling and the amount of recycled content in materials used Assurance by Bureau Veritas Target: Work with site-managers and managing agents to improve the In line with our corporate responsibility focus areas, we have identified sharing and reporting of waste management information and data Key Performance Indicators KPI to be monitored year on year, and across our managed portfolio.
KPI: Average target % of waste to be recycled on developments.
have set objectives and targets for 2007: below are just a selection Average target % of recycled content of materials by value on of the objectives and targets.
Please refer to the online Corporate developments.
Responsibility Report for the full version.
% of waste to landfill at Broadgate, Meadowhall and Regents Place.
Corporate responsibility management Biodiversity Objective: Implement effective corporate responsibility management processes Objective: Safeguard and enhance biodiversity.
Targets: Developments team to implement a management system and certify Target: Prepare site-specific Biodiversity Action Plans for Leeds Westside to the ISO14001 standard.
Shopping Park and Oxford Shopping Park.
Review our approach to carbon management and build on existing KPI: Number of managed properties covered by Biodiversity Action Plans.
climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies.
Develop systems to amalgamate Group-wide data for corporate responsibility reporting.
British Land people Independent assurance statement by Bureau Veritas.
For more details please see the CR Report 2006: www.
com crReport 2006 Objective: Ensure effective staff recruitment, retention and performance Target: Review Human Resources strategy and Key Performance Indicators.
% of pre tax underlying profit given to staff volunteering initiatives and sponsorship.
The British Land Company PLC 43 INTELLIGENT PLANNING PAYS FULL REGARD TO TRANSPORTATION NEEDS Our office and retail developments are carefully integrated with local transport infrastructure.
At Liverpool Street, commuters move easily from their trains to their desks.
