Responsible business Overview practical, and to engage with them on responsible business At Capital & Regional, we believe that the long-term success of our activities, as they support us in the delivery of a successful business depends on the ability to build sustainable relationships RB programme.
with investors, customers, suppliers, local community stakeholders, and our own people.
This can only be done by behaving in a We measure the success of these relationships on a divisional level.
responsible manner towards them, and towards the natural The Junction, The Mall and FIX UK commission independent tenant environment: and by being aware and responsive to their needs satisfaction surveys on an annual basis, and SNO!zone conducts and points of view.
regular customer surveys, the results of which are published internally on a monthly basis.
The aim is to maintain or improve Being a responsible business means that all of the business satisfaction each time: and we have so far managed to do this.
activities and operations must be carried out in a responsible We strive to continuously build and improve on our existing manner, down to every decision that we take as a business: and relations by listening to the feedback we receive from customers every interaction that we have.
Two years ago we began to map out and tenants at both head office and ground level.
our approach to Responsible Business RB, in order to provide a framework for measuring performance and improvements, and 2007 Highlights identify the key areas where we have an impact.
These are: the Our trade park division, FIX UK, improved their customer managing of responsible business: marketplace customers & satisfaction by almost 20% in 2007, their second year of suppliers : the environment: workplace: and local communities, trading, bringing average satisfaction to a rating of 6.35 which are discussed in more detail below.
For the second year running, The Mall received the accolade of This year we have made progress across divisions in all areas, being the Best Service Charge Provider in 2007 by the Property but particularly in measuring and managing our environmental Managers Association, the representative body of retail occupiers.
impacts and developing a more strategic approach to community investment.
Next year the challenge will be to ensure continued 2008 Priorities improvements in these areas, to develop our measurement Develop a procurement policy for head office which will frameworks, and to develop our approach to engaging with include social and environmental considerations.
occupiers and suppliers in our RB agenda.
Continue to maintain or improve customer satisfaction across our divisions.
Below we outline our group-wide approach to these areas, and Increase engagement with tenants on social and highlight some activities that took place over the last year showing environmental issues.
how this approach is implemented in practice.
Further information on specific leisure, retail park, and shopping centre activities can be Case Study: The Junctions Park Mark accreditation found on those divisions websites.
We acknowledge that there is Over the course of 2007, The Junctions operations team worked more that we can do to improve our RB practice, and to this end hard to further improve safety standards in the car parks and we have identified some priorities for the coming year within each shared areas of our sites in order to reduce crime and anti-social key area.
CCTV has been installed on all parks, as well as other crime prevention initiatives, often in conjunction with the local Managing Responsible Business police force.
In order to deliver value to all our stakeholders, we believe that our RB programme must be action-oriented and tailored to the relevant Our aim over recent years has been to achieve a Park Mark business divisions.
Capital & Regional manages Responsible accreditation for our schemes, awarded by the police, in order Business in the same way as it does other operating areas, by to show tenants and customers that our parks are well managed allowing our operating divisions autonomy to develop an approach and safe environments.
Determining factors include lowering that is suitable for them: whilst providing broad strategic direction the crime statistics, good and effective lighting, regular tenant and a forum for supporting one another and encouraging progress liaison, and cleanliness.
During 2007 and early 2008, we underwent the assessment The Responsible Business Committee meets three times a year process and achieved the Park Mark accreditation at all of our and includes three main Board directors: Alan Coppin Chairman, parks.
This makes us the first Retail Park landlord to achieve Xavier Pullen and William Sunnucks, as well as divisional this across the whole portfolio.
representatives who are responsible for delivering RB activities within the funds, and who report on progress at each meeting.
The group has developed certain broad policies within which the Environment divisions must work to enable consistent progression across all We believe the property industry has a significant role to play in divisions and to allow the RB committee to ensure activities are combating environmental degradation: and strive to continuously aligned with good practice.
The committee reports regularly to improve the environmental sustainability of our investments.
To this end, we developed an Environmental Policy during the year to provide a framework for managing the groups impact on the Marketplace Customers and Suppliers environment across the portfolio.
As a group, our policy is to treat those who occupy, use and supply our properties with respect, and to engage with them as partners.
We aim to work closely with our occupiers to respond to their needs, and their customers needs: for example through marketing and safety initiatives at our centres.
We also look to form strong relationships with suppliers, who are local to our activities wherever 16 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 The policy is made available to all interested parties through our 2008 Priorities website, and directs that, as a minimum, Capital & Regional group, Ensure the environment policy is fully implemented throughout and its businesses will: our activities by June 2008, and communicate the policy to our staff.
Comply with all relevant environmental legislation Continue to monitor our energy use across our divisions, and and regulations look at ways of reducing these.
X-Leisure are aiming to reduce Identify and measure the most significant environmental energy use by a further 10% across their portfolio.
impacts Continue to monitor and roll out recycling programmes at head Set targets to improve environmental performance office and in our divisional operations.
The Mall are aiming to in these areas recycle 70% of all waste in their shopping centres.
Include environmental criteria when choosing services and goods to purchase, and communicate objectives to supplier Case Study: Slope lighting at SNO!zone Milton Keynes Communicate the policy, targets and environmental activities At our Milton Keynes slope we have replaced our slope lighting to all staff and interested parties system, at the suggestion of one our maintenance team members.
Graham Hunter worked on his own initiative to source All divisions are expected to identify their own key environmental a more energy-efficient lighting system which uses a high impacts, and develop their own environmental management pressure fluorescent lamp.
systems to respond to these.
In all cases, this will include the use of energy, water and other natural resources: and the production We estimate there will be a saving of around 347,000 Kwh per and disposal of waste.
year from the lighting system alone which, based on Defra conversion factors, is a reduction of around 40 tonnes of This policy was approved by the Board in September 2007, and we carbon.
Furthermore, one of the by-products of lighting is the have set a target to implement it across all our operations by June heat produced: with this system, much less heat will be 2008.
Our divisions are already making significant progress to this emitted, meaning we can also turn the cooling system down end: and have begun the process of identifying and measuring and save even more energy.
their most significant environmental impacts, and setting targets to improve.
Theres also a cost benefit in monetary terms, we conservatively expect the total savings to be over 42,000 The Mall and X-Leisure take part in the annual Upstream property a year on our energy bills and the payback for the capital benchmarking survey, which enables them to assess their investment will be 1-2 years.
Finally, the new lamps have an environmental performance on a property by property basis.
average lamp life of 50,000 hours, compared with the average Upstream is also working with The Junction to measure their lamp life of only 3,000 hours for the old type.
So thanks to performance and develop an Environmental Management System Graham, were lightening the maintenance load for the team for the division, as well as looking at the Groups environmental as well as saving money and reducing our carbon footprint.
impact at head office and identifying ways of reducing these.
Additionally, The Mall and X-Leisure are working with the Carbon Workplace Trust to develop a Carbon Management programme for their Capital & Regional wants to recruit and retain the best talent business, as this has been identified as one of their key impact available, to reflect the communities we serve, and to help the areas.
They have already implemented numerous improvements business to continue to perform as well as it can.
To do this, we to their energy efficiency and environmental impacts at their believe it is important to provide fair pay, conditions, and health destinations.
Further details of X-Leisures activities can be found and safety standards: to treat staff fairly and equally: and to in their Responsible Business summary report 2008.
The Mall have encourage our staff to grow through training and development developed the EnviroMall initiative, a comprehensive programme, opportunities.
We also strongly believe in fostering a working implemented across all 23 shopping centres, designed to take culture that is professional but enjoyable, where a team sprit a lead in the environmental management of covered shopping prevails, and where all individuals contributions are valued.
The initiative has its own website, www.
co. uk, where further information can be found.
We believe that the diversity of our people is an asset to the business, and have an equal opportunities policy which encourages 2007 Highlights and promotes diversity.
At the end of 2007, the business had grown A group-wide environmental policy was developed and approved to employ 1,073 people across the group, 52% of which were male by the Board and 48% of which were female.
The first EnviroMall week was held in August 2007 to raise awareness amongst shoppers and retailers about what they During 2007, we took time to improve our workplace processes, could do to reduce their impact on the environment.
More than and as a result of this launched C&R People, a web based 13,000 pledges to make a difference within their own homes employee toolkit.
We also introduced several new schemes at head had been received by shoppers by the end of the week.
office including a Give as you Earn scheme to enable staff to X-Leisure reduced their CO2 emissions by 24%, and increased donate to charity directly through their payroll, and a Bike2Work recycling by 57% across the portfolio from the previous year.
This enables staff to buy bicycles in a cost-effective way for commuting into work, and supports our environmental aims.
Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 17 Responsible business continued The Mall and SNO!zone have their own HR teams to support the them as positive assets to their area, and we try to ensure that significant number of employees employed on-site 309 at the this is the case by being responsive to the communities of which Mall, and 546 at SNO!zone, and they also continued to develop we are a part by listening and responding to the views of a their people processes during the year.
The Mall have been wide range of local people, and demonstrating our long-term accredited as Investors in People since 2002, and have a wide commitment to them.
ranging training and development programme under the banner of M Power.
"SNO!zone spent time strengthening its HR processes We also believe that our responsibility to local communities goes during the latter part of 2007, and recently launched the first of its beyond just providing high-quality work, leisure or shopping branded ""REAL SNOW REAL PEOPLE"" initiatives, via an interactive destinations: by actively participating in activities that bring handbook."
SNO!zone also have a range of workplace initiatives sustainable support and benefit to the local area where we can, including providing free or part-funded places on an ongoing basis and supporting the causes that are important to our customers, for unskilled employees to re-train as ski or snowboard instructors.
This allows us to build ongoing positive This year 36 members of staff benefited from the training course, relationships with local people and communities, and we believe and a further 8 instructors were able to go to Switzerland to this contributes to the long-term prosperity of our business.
Part of complete their Adaptive coaching award which enables them to this work is through fundraising for, or donating to, local charitable teach individuals with a range of disabilities.
causes, which is done at a divisional level.
2007 Highlights As a group, we also believe in the ability of shopping and leisure Launched C&R People, our web based staff information tool destinations to contribute to the regeneration of local areas, Progressed our approach to health and safety, and developed economically, socially and environmentally.
We actively pursue our Health and Safety Committee, which will now be chaired opportunities to develop sites that will contribute to local by Xavier Pullen.
regeneration, and at the moment have schemes underway at The Mall has been awarded a prestigious two star status as Oldbury and Cardiff.
an outstanding Company to Work for by Best Companies, the process supported by Sunday Times.
2007 Highlights 899,863 raised through the Mall Cares Heart Strings 2008 Priorities programme, and individual fundraising activities, with monies Expansion of the web-based C&R People information system donated to over 50 local charities.
to include a line manager toolkit as well as an employee toolkit.
The Junction developed a community policy which focuses on Launch a monthly e-newsletter for head office staff to share long-term social and economic development of communities information between divisions, and continue to engage people to guide their local investments, and funded a range of in Responsible Business issues.
community projects within this criteria.
2008 Priorities Case Study: The Mall is No.
59 in The Sunday Times To organise at least one community programme or event Best Companies to Work for 2008 at each retail and leisure destination within our portfolio.
Over 850 companies registered to take part in the 2008 Sunday To measure the amount given to, and raised for, charitable Times Best Companies to Work for, and The Mall is very proud to causes during 2008 across all of the groups businesses.
have been placed at Number 59, following a very high response To raise 1 million for local charities through the rate from staff.
We were rated highly across all of the topics Mall Cares programme.
surveyed, including leadership, personal growth, well being, my team, my company and my manager.
We also received some positive personal comments from over 200 staff, Case Study: BTCV Scotland Green Gym for example: In October 2007, SNO!zone and X-Leisure launched in conjunction with Braehead Shopping Centre a 15,000 threeI have never known a company give as much training as year co-funding of a BTCV Scotland Green Gym near to their The Mall.
They are fully committed to helping all departments Braehead destination.
The initiative is about creating healthy reach their full potential.
I am proud to represent The Mall brand.
people and healthy places by transforming waste ground into community recreational space where wildlife can flourish.
You feel your opinion counts and therefore you are able to influence business decisions.
The passion for the business is Local people of all ages volunteer to work out in the open air easy to see right through the company, even to visitors, through local, practical environmental work.
On average, around and you get a positive buzz when you come into work.
six volunteers attend each session, and each month we get six new volunteers register their interest and become members of The result is a fantastic achievement for The Mall and its all the green gym.
Since the project commenced, they have spent 89 days outdoors in various projects from creating wildlife gardens, Local communities woodland management, and repairing and restoring fences We aim to provide local communities with safe, clean and and paths.
The programme will be further rolled out over the attractive centres in which to shop, work and spend leisure time, coming years.
and recognise that our businesses can be integral parts of those communities.
One of our key objectives is that local people see 18 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007
