Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 39 Directors report Key Objectives for 2008 Review strategic approach to sustainability.
Continue to achieve BREEAM Very Good for new schemes and aim to achieve BREEAM Excellent.
Maintain 100% use of brownfield sites.
Undertake series of awareness raising seminars for staff and key suppliers.
Launch website for tenant engagement.
Achieve target of 100% hardwood timber to be sourced from certified sources and work towards 100% certified sources for softwood timber.
Continue to monitor energy consumption throughout portfolio and undertake research project to identify ways of improving performance of buildings against design criteria.
Undertake review of waste contractors used within the managed The group has strong ties with a number of influential property portfolio to identify how to improve the accuracy of measurement organisations that help mould the future of the property industry.
of proportion of waste recycled.
These links help it to communicate its views to a wider audience, 3 2 Achieve target of 0.55m m water usage per annum for offices.
including national bodies and the government.
On a more local level, yet equally important, it is an influential board member of the Health and safety New West End Company and Westminster Property Owners The groups formal health and safety policy is issued to its contractors Association.
Both of these bodies have a vision and commitment and professional advisers and is embedded in the management regime to improve the West End as a place to work, shop, visit and live.
for the groups development sites.
To ensure compliance with the policy, The group is also involved with a variety of organisations that have an executive is assigned to each project to monitor the performance very specific local objectives including the Paddington Waterside of the main contractor who in turn monitors the subcontractors and Partnership and the Chancery Lane Association.
reports back to the executive.
All sites are registered with, and inspected under, the Considerate Contractor Scheme.
The board receives regular During the summer the group co-sponsored the ground-breaking reports from each site together with notification of any accidents that Global Cities exhibition at the London Tate Modern.
This exhibition require reporting under the Health and Safety regulations.
examined the movement towards urbanisation and the changing faces of ten dynamic international cities, including London, Los Angeles, The health and safety policy is reviewed at regular intervals and revised Tokyo, Mexico City and Shanghai.
The sponsorship helped to further as necessary.
enhance the companys profile and to ignite the debate about the role and responsibilities of developers in shaping Londons future.
To ensure continued compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act, new developments are all audited by independent access consultants.
Throughout 2007, Derwent London continued its unique and creative partnership with the Teenage Cancer Trust TCT a charity designed Social policy to improve standards of care for teenagers with cancer.
The group Derwent Londons social impacts arise largely through its dealings has been supporting the work of the TCT since 2001, facilitating the with a range of stakeholder groups, namely: employees, customers, Trusts ongoing initiative in setting up special units for teenagers in suppliers and the communities within which the group operates.
Acting as development and design consultants, it Derwent Londons social commitment is firmly aligned with its has introduced a variety of architects to new TCT projects which are strategic business priorities, representing an important element of now being developed in Cardiff and Glasgow.
the companys risk management strategy and offering the potential for significant value creation.
This policy is governed by a senior Customers board executive who reports to the board on social matters regularly.
D erwent London will strive towards high quality customer service through regular contact and by being receptive to their needs.
Within the groups social endeavours, it is committed to legal Derwent London will ensure that its customers are safe and secure compliance as a minimum standard, and where practicable, strives in all managed buildings by maintaining the highest health and to go beyond this.
The policy is implemented through appropriate safety standards.
targeting, measurement, monitoring and reporting procedures to deliver continuous improvements in performance across material Employees social impact areas.
Derwent Londons specific social objectives Derwent London will provide training, support and development related to each of its material social impact areas are listed below opportunities to all staff to help them deliver company aspirations.
together with specific examples of the groups activities in these areas: Derwent London will attract and retain high calibre employees by promoting equal opportunities and ensuring a safe working Community environment.
Derwent London will consult with local communities on new development projects and will work with contractors to Suppliers ensure minimum disruption and nuisance is caused during Derwent London will treat its suppliers fairly and with respect.
Derwent London will ensure that its own corporate responsibility Derwent London will contribute to community and charitable standards are also reflected in its supply chain by encouraging activities through both financial and in-kind resources.
