Directors report Derwent London is committed to sustainable building design and contributing to the environment in which we operate.
During 2007, we co-sponsored the Global Cities exhibition at the London Tate Modern and continued to support the Teenage Cancer Trusts initiative to set up special units for teenagers in NHS hospitals.
Environment Environmental management This is the second year of environmental reporting.
This section The environmental policy was reviewed and updated in 2007 to set provides a summary of the groups environmental performance for out the companys commitment to sound environmental management 2007 and its key objectives for 2008.
The full environmental report practice and to ensure that it remains compliant with relevant is available on the groups website.
legislation and best practice guidance.
This is available publicly on the groups website and is made available to all tenants and project Working towards sustainability teams.
The policy highlights the most significant environmental Derwent London has always looked for ways to promote sustainable impacts and an internal supporting document provides guidance building design.
In 2002, at the Davidson Building in Covent Garden, to staff and contractors on how to manage and reduce these impacts.
the group was one of the first developers of a speculative London building A programme of internal awareness-raising seminars is planned for that used under-floor air flow and exposed thermal mass cooling as a 2008 to reinforce company objectives.
means of reducing energy use.
More recently, the Johnson Building in Hatton Garden was completed, which advanced this disbursement Environmental performance system and also adopted a low energy lighting technique with great The group is able to demonstrate a number of environmental commercial success.
Both buildings also share an inherent sustainability improvements in 2007, including a decrease in energy consumption in their adaptive re-use of existing structures saving on new materials by at its head office and a decrease in water usage per square metre re-using rather than demolishing.
At the current project with Arup in Fitzroy of floor area in its managed portfolio.
Carbon emissions per square Street, low energy active chilled beams will be used for air conditioning metre within the landlord-controlled areas of the managed portfolio and rainwater will be re-used.
The design also includes a green roof, solar have remained fairly constant.
water heating and a raft of other energy saving measures.
These will result in a building designed to exceed the current energy regulation targets.
The groups data analysis process has indicated that some of the properties, for which whole building energy data is available, are The groups emphasis on the refurbishment and re-use of existing buildings not currently performing as designed or according to typical or best is by definition intrinsically sustainable, and the environmental performance practice.
Whilst this is likely to relate to tenant behaviour, which is out of any new build properties is assessed against the Building Research of the groups direct control, it will continue to investigate the results Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM for Offices.
and to liaise with the tenants to determine whether any positive Two of the major schemes under development during 2007 Qube and changes can be made.
Portobello Road are both on track to achieve BREEAM Very Good.
Waste continues to be recycled in the head office, and an In addition, the group continues to utilise 100% brownfield land and increased number of recycling facilities are available within the regenerate predominantly inner London sites.
