Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 31 Corporate responsibility Great Portland Estates recognises the importance of its impact Tenants and the community on society and the environment through its operations and The Company recognises that local initiatives are important interaction with its key stakeholders, including investors, in enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and employees, neighbours, communities, customers and suppliers.
promote central London, and supports a number of groups including the Westminster Property Owners Association, The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating Westminster City Council, Transport for London and the to social, environmental and health and safety matters, and is New West End Company in their work to address issues such determined to apply high standards to social, environmental as planning, transport and security and, in respect of the and ethical issues in all areas in which the Group operates New West End Company, the Company has made voluntary including the management of the joint venture operations contributions to match those of the Companys tenants.
on behalf of the joint venture partners.
The Board receives an annual report from the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Over the past 18 months, the Company has been working chaired by the Property Director, Robert Noel, and regular alongside Westminster City Council, Transport for London reports from the Health and Safety and the Environmental and adjoining freeholders to design a scheme for the Executive Committees also chaired by Mr Noel.
The Groups pedestrianisation of Old Quebec Street at the Marble Arch Corporate Responsibility Value Statement and Strategy, Health end of Oxford Street, W1 to improve the general street scene.
and Safety and Environmental Policies together with the This work has culminated in a contribution of 100,000 from Groups objectives and targets are approved by the Board the Great Victoria Partnership joint venture for Westminster on an annual basis.
City Council to implement the scheme.
Through the Company website, the Company has also helped to promote the public The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, consultation process in conjunction with Westminster City a benchmark index of companies which meets criteria set Council and the New West End Company of the Oxford Street, down by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service on Regent Street and Bond Street Plan, which has identied a environmental, social and corporate governance performance.
series of concept designs including bespoke street furniture, For the fourth year, the Company has taken part in the greening opportunities, improvement of public spaces and Business in the Communitys annual Corporate Responsibility iconic lighting to greatly enhance the area.
Index, which, together with the CR activities reported within this report, is independently veried by Bureau Veritas, and in Principal contractors on all developments and major 2007 received a silver award in Business in the Communitys refurbishments are required to be members of the Considerate Top 100 Companies for corporate responsibility.
In 2007 this was extended to include demolition contractors.
At Tooley Street, SE1, audited under Objectives and targets the Scheme in 2007, our scheme was considered by the Great Portland Estates set a total of 49 Corporate Responsibility Scheme Monitor to have achieved a good score with a CR targets at the beginning of 2006.
73% of these were fully rating of a high level beyond compliance for each of the achieved.
Good progress has been made against the rest with eight categories assessed.
a large number of the 2006 objectives and targets becoming For all major schemes, the Company ensures newsletters are part of our standard management practices.
produced on a regular basis to keep stakeholders appraised with progress.
Regular meetings are also held with tenants Progress against CR objectives and targets to provide feedback to contractors on performance.
100% met 36 The Company has continued with its tradition of encouraging B.
80% to 90% met 4 D staff to be involved in, and of supporting their, charitable C C. 50% to 70% met 8 activities.
In particular, the Company targets charities D. Less than 50% met 1 involved in health, the homeless and the community, and, B where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
In partnership with Westminster Education Authority, through a Primary School Volunteer scheme, 23% of the Companys employees have participated in helping pupils at St. Vincents school in Marylebone to improve their reading.
Ethics policy All employees receive a copy of the Companys Ethics policy which sets out the Companys core values and approaches in its relations with tenants and the local community, shareholders and other investors, employees, suppliers, and the government.
32 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate responsibility Health and safety statistics 2005 2006 2007 Number of RIDDOR reportable injuries 2 1 0 First aid injuries 87 8 Three day injuries 01 0 Work related fatalities 00 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 2 2 2 Number of employee days off work from injury 0 0 0 Health and safety Despite a significant increase in our development activity Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and our health and safety record remains good.
All accidents safety to a consistently high standard.
and incidents occurring in areas managed by the Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action is taken.
The Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental A formal investigation of all serious accidents is conducted Manager, reporting directly to the Property Director, Robert by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager.
During the Noel, to manage and review health and safety compliance.
year ended 31 March 2007, there were no reportable accidents A Health and Safety Management System designed to comply arising from the Groups activities.
with ISO 18001 requirements is maintained for all properties managed by the Group, and includes on site inspections Environment by external consultants, reviews of risk assessments, and The Company is committed to effective environmental a regular update of procedures at least on an annual basis.
management, and regards regulatory compliance as a A Health and Safety Executive Committee which is chaired minimum standard.
An Environmental Policy Statement is by Mr Noel meets on a quarterly basis, and monitors reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results Companys website, www.
co. uk of safety audits and inspections, changes in legislation, the development of new procedures, and the allocation An Environmental Executive Committee chaired by Robert of resources to health and safety.
Noel as the Property Director and made up of senior representatives from each department, meets on a quarterly During the year all new employees were provided with basis and reports to the Board annually.
The Committee health and safety training relevant to their role with additional monitors the Groups compliance with environmental health and safety training provided to existing employees legislation and best practice across the portfolio, agrees where appropriate, in particular in the areas of construction, procedures to be followed on key environmental issues contractor management, re safety and asbestos management.
and sets the annual objectives and targets.
The Groups Prior to acquisition, detailed surveys are undertaken of new environmental objectives and targets, Environmental properties to ensure that, where possible, hazardous materials Management Plan and clearly allocated responsibilities, have are identied and are dealt with as soon as practicable been developed in line with the Groups key aspects and on completion.
impacts identied through our Environmental Management System.
Key environmental areas for the Group include As one of the significant health and safety risks to the business energy and water consumption, waste management, water is the control of contractors, a contractor and consultant and air pollution, ozone depletion, contractor and tenant selection scheme is in place, under which all contractors and awareness, and the environmental impact of developments consultants are vetted for their health and safety performance and major refurbishments.
and procedures prior to appointment.
To ensure the effective management of contractors on site, all of the Groups In the spring of 2007, the Company has established an Building Managers have attained the IOSH Managing Environmental Policy Committee chaired by Toby Courtauld Safely qualication.
In light of rapidly changing legislation affecting both existing buildings and new developments At our construction sites, our Safety, Health and Environmental environmental performance and the expectation that tenants Manager liaises closely with CDM Coordinators and Project will increasingly discriminate between environmentally Managers to assist in ensuring that health and safety is efficient buildings and the rest, the Committee will seek managed effectively on site.
Where building works are being to set policies that match the Groups operations with this carried out with tenants in situ, our Building Managers are changing environment.
on site regularly to ensure that health and safety concerns are brought to the attention of contractors and dealt with in a timely fashion.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate responsibility 33 The Companys Environmental Management System is All property acquisitions are subject to an environmental controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and audit: major developments are also subject to BREEAM with Environmental Manager, and audited by external consultants a target to achieve a Very Good rating on completion and on a regular basis.
The management system comprises of a sustainability report is commissioned at the appropriate stage detailed checklists based upon legislation requirements for developments and major refurbishments.
During the year, and best practice measures.
External consultants also our target for BREEAM ratings for 2007 was met with our carry environmental checks on all managed properties major development at 180 Great Portland Street, W1 attaining on an annual basis which serves as additional check a BREEAM rating of Very Good.
on contractors compliance with requirements under A refurbishment policy which sets out standards for environmental legislation.
segregation and recycling of waste materials, sourcing of Energy and water consumption is monitored by external timber products and energy consumption is in place to consultants and usage data is analysed on a monthly basis.
address the environmental impact of our developments and As the majority of energy and water within our buildings refurbishments, and is sent to all parties involved with major is consumed by tenants it is not possible for the Company works on behalf of the Company.
Consultants and contractors to set meaningful energy and water usage reduction targets.
are required to comply with its contents and a questionnaire However, we are committed to carrying out energy surveys is completed by the scheme Project Manager at the end on each of our multi-let properties, excluding those in, of a project as a way to ensure standards are maintained.
or approaching development, where energy savings can be All contractors appointed as Principal Contractor are made and implemented.
To date, 26 energy surveys have been expected to have robust environmental policies and commissioned resulting in actions taken to: reduce heating management systems.
and cooling operation times, educate tenants in the use of An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups energy saving measures including the reduction of lighting environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an usage out of hours, reduce capacity on replacement of heating annual basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
and cooling equipment and employ low energy light bulbs.
Environmental guidance together with a Company purchasing Cumulative energy audits as % of portfolio policy is provided to employees through the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and environmental training is included in employees induction training.
Employees are also given % training on environmental issues pertinent to their work, and 100 programmes attended during the year have included IEMA 89 Environmental Management certication and courses on energy management and energy performance certicates.
80 Waste generated at our ofces is recycled with 93% of rubbish collected at 33 Cavendish Square recycled, 6% incinerated and 66 1% going to landll.
Wherever possible, recycling schemes are implemented at properties where waste collection facilities 60 are provided.
Employees Our employees are a key resource of our business and we 40 seek to attract and retain the best people who add value to the business, through competitive remuneration and 16.5 benets packages.
A significant proportion of remuneration 20 is performance related and our overall retention rate remains high at 88% per annum.
The average length of service reects the change in 2002 0 2005 2006 2007 to a focused central London investment and development business which involved the hiring of new people.
The comparatively short average length of service of the development team reects the value of getting the team On developments, we constantly review ways to maximise the right and removal from the development team statistics of energy efficiency and sustainability of our buildings.
A recent Neil Thompson following his promotion to director during example of methods used can be seen at our Tooley Street, SE1 the year as the importance of the development business to development which includes the using of exposed concrete the Group has grown.
softs to cool space naturally and the harvesting of rainwater.
34 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Corporate responsibility Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly basis Employee profile to keep everyone up to date and involved in the Companys Average period of service Total people years plans and activities and to act as a forum for the Executive 2006 2007 2006 2007 Directors to answer questions.
Weekly meetings are held both across and within departments to ensure good communication Directors 3 4 3 3 throughout the Company.
Meetings with non-ofce based Admin HR 9 8 7 7 personnel are also held weekly to ensure their involvement Development 9 9 2 2 and to encourage the sharing of best practice.
Employees are Finance IT 16 15 4 5 involved at all levels in the development of the Groups Invest Asset 23 25 4 5 operating policies.
Corporate responsibility initiatives raised by employees are The Company is committed to equal opportunities, and actively encouraged and as a result of an employee suggestion, employees are encouraged to develop their skills.
To facilitate in 2007, the Company introduced a Cycle to Work Scheme for this, each employee is regularly appraised with a view to all employees.
maximising his or her potential and contribution and a formal training programme of both external courses and in-house Property industry seminars is provided.
The Company encourages career Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent development through the provision of relevant training with the Companys views and contribute towards the development funding and study leave to support professional development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is on the Board of the including formal training for professional qualications, Central London Partnership, a member of the Management external degrees or as part of a vocational training programme.
Board of the Investment Property Forum and a member of During the year 39,026 was invested in formal staff training the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF providing 995 hours of training.
Training programmes with the Company actively supporting BPF initiatives such provided during the year included both business related topics, as the Code of Practice for Commercial Leases in England key risk areas, personal skills development and personal and Wales.
Robert Noel is on the Council of the Westminster training programmes for senior managers.
Property Owners Association, is a member of the South Bank Employers Group and is on the Management Board of the Total number of training hours New West End Company, a formal Business Improvement District encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.
Hours 341.0 350 Investors 309.5 The Board believes in the importance of effective 288.5 300 communication.
The Company seeks to improve investors 276.5 and potential investors understanding of its objectives, strategy and performance.
In the year to 31 March 2007 over 250 137 presentations were made by a combination of the Chief Executive, Property and Finance Directors in order to explain 189.0 200 the Groups business and financial performance and to answer questions.
All such meetings are conducted within the guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure 150 128.5 Rules on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
In 2006, the Company received a bronze award in the 93.5 86.5 84.0 100 BDO Stoy Hayward Property Accounts Award, with particular 72.0 70.5 mention for the clear presentation of the Groups portfolio and valuation analysis and the detail available on, and ease 50 of navigation of, the Companys website.
8.5 The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out 0 Corporate EnvironEstates Finance Health IT Governance mental Management and Safety on pages 42 to 44. and HR 2006 2007
