coRPoRate ResPonsiBiLity The principle of our approach to Corporate Responsibility is to adopt business practices across the group that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, and to promote these to our partners and customers in order to strengthen relationships, share knowledge, and to encourage best practice.
Hammersons properties have impacts at every stage of their life-cycle, from design, through construction, to letting and management.
Active portfolio management Design and We actively recycle capital to enhance planning returns for shareholders.
In reinvesting we include sustainability considerations We aim to design buildings in our acquisition criteria and business which meet the aspirations plans for each asset.
of city councils and local communities and which make the most efficient Asset use of natural resources.
management We seek to improve the Construction environmental performance We work with our contractors of our existing buildings and to: increase awareness and make a positive contribution usage of sustainable materials: to local communities.
improve energy and water efficiency: minimise waste: and recycle materials on site.
Letting We engage with our occupiers to understand and meet their requirements and, through collaboration, to help them to improve their own CR and financial performance.
Annual Report 2007 029 Section coRPoRate ResPonsiBiLity continued mAnAgeD poRTfolio impAcTs targets are set to reduce energy and waste consumption, and to Hammerson measures the environmental impact of its existing increase the proportion of waste diverted from landfill.
Hammerson portfolio by collecting data on energy and water consumption and has not until now collected data in France.
However in 2008 we will waste disposal.
Data has been available for the entire UK portfolio conduct a review of carbon emissions across the French portfolio, for energy and water since 2006, with 2007 representing the first with a view to establishing a baseline in 2008 and a plan for year of data collection on waste for the entire UK portfolio.
Since October 2007, Shopping centres This chart shows the energy intensity at Hammersons shopping centres electricity has been sourced from Good Quality Combined Heat & Power, which is more efficient including energy from all sources.
In broadening the scope of the portfolio analysis, Bullring and in energy and carbon terms than grid electricity from standard centralised power stations.
Queensgate have been included for 2007 and, retrospectively, for 2006 as is the case for the analysis of water useage.
The same six shopping centres are represented in both 2006 and 2007.
Five of Mains water the six centres achieved improved efficiency, resulting in a 12% overall reduction.
Since October Shopping centres Figures for 2006 have been investigated and included in the analysis above.
2006, 100% of electricity at centres managed by Hammerson Management Services has been Five out of six centres made improvements since last year, collectively reducing water consumed sourced from large-scale Hydro Electric Power.
Whilst not exempt from the Climate Change per visit by 9%.
Levy this is still from a renewable source, classified as CO averted rather than CO emitted.
2 2 Offices Water consumption has remained relatively static over 2006 and 2007.
A revision to 2 UK offices This chart shows the energy intensity at Hammersons office portfolio including floor areas in 2006 accounts for the change in water consumption per m per year compared energy from all sources.
Increases in the energy intensity in recent years are driven by the greater with that reported in our 2006 Corporate Responsibility report.
2006 Waste by disposal route 2007 Waste by disposal route 2006 Waste by disposal route 2007 Waste by disposal route UK shopping centres UK shopping centres UK offices UK offices 3% 5% 7% 5% 17% 15% 12% 30% 50% 19% 59% 23% 63% 64% 28% Direct to landfill Direct to landfill Direct to landfill Direct to landfill MRF mass MRF mass Recycled mass Recycled mass Recycled segregated onsite Recycled segregated onsite MRF mass MRF mass Reused Incinerated with energy mass Reused Waste by disposal route UK Offices Some of the difficulties with data monitoring systems for waste from offices Shopping centres 2007 is the first year where waste data have been obtained for all six UK have been resolved enabling figures to be recorded by weight for 2006, for all UK offices shopping centres.
The target of 50% of total waste recycled at shopping centres has not been but one, and 2007, for all UK offices.
Despite overall waste increasing during this period, met, though the level achieved has increased to 33%.
Waste averted from landfill increased the proportion of waste not sent directly to landfill has not changed significantly.
DeVelopmenT poRTfolio impAcTs We reviewed our pipeline developments and produced In our development activities, we have a responsibility to design Sustainability Implementation Plans for each development, buildings which will meet, and preferably exceed, future legislative covering the period from pre-acquisition to construction requirements on environmental and social issues.
CR activity relating to the development programme and pipeline Sustainability workshops were held with key stakeholders, including in 2007 are as follows: city councils and anchor retailers, to shape future developments in Leeds, Sheffield and Peterborough.
Cabot Circus, Bristol, is on target to achieve BREEAM Building Requirements for at least 10% renewable energy was incorporated Research Establishment Energy Assessment Methodology into designs for future developments in Leeds, Sheffield and Excellent, making it the first retail centre ever to achieve this rating.
Peterborough, and over 25% at Brent Cross and Cricklewood.
Highcross Leicester achieved BREEAM Very Good certification.
We created the Leicester Charter, a partnership with local We introduced energy, water and waste efficiency reporting authorities, universities and anchor retailers to increase the skilled requirements for contractors on construction sites and monitoring retail labour pool, aimed directly at areas of high unemployment.
030 Annual Report 2007 2 Energy intensity expressed as kg CO2 m year 83 97 89 99 141 124 2 Energy intensity expressed as kg CO2 m year 280 269 235 229 261 312 Litres landlord and tenant visit 2.3 3.0 3.1 2.4 3.2 2.9 2 Cubic metres landlord and tenant m year 1.6 1.3 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 My involvement in CR has grown out of my role in property management.
There is a real opportunity for both hammerson and its occupiers to improve environmental performance by working together.
Philippe Bouveret property Deputy Director, Hammerson france I joined hammerson as its first head of Sustainability just over a year ago.
Its great to be working in an organisation where the Board is committed to our Corporate Responsibility activities.
I work with individuals across all business areas within hammerson and Im excited about their passion and willingness to make a difference.
Paul Edwards Head of sustainability Annual Report 2007 031 Section coRPoRate ResPonsiBiLity continued 2007 ReView and Leicester, in conjunction with government organisations including Hammerson has been measuring and reporting on CR since 2003.
Skillsmart and Job Centre Plus, and partners such as John Lewis.
However, over the past two years, it has become more central The aim of these programmes is to provide information on the to the way we do business.
2007 proved to be a year of significant 6,000-plus jobs which will be created as a result of the two major progress in meeting our CR objectives, with activity focused on: developments: to access government funding for training and establishing a more comprehensive understanding of our development for these roles: and to ensure that training goes environmental baseline: significantly reducing consumption of to people who have not previously had access to job opportunities.
energy and water in the managed property portfolio, and reducing By creating and running targeted schemes, Hammerson and its the proportions of waste going to landfill: sharing our CR objectives development partners have been able to raise around 1 million with our staff, our 200 or so key suppliers and more than 800 of funding for its programmes in Bristol and Leicester.
occupiers: creating sustainability implementation plans for each of our developments: and participating with industry bodies in A full explanation of Hammersons CR initiatives, our progress order to shape government policy and promote best practice.
against 2007 targets and KPIs, and the targets we have set ourselves for 2008, can be found in our 2007 CR report, In 2007, we put significant effort into educating, and learning from, published online at www.
A printed summary our suppliers and occupiers.
The emphasis throughout has been on report is also available.
collaboration, leading best practice, and on anticipating rather than responding to legislation.
In July 2007, for example, we became one of the first major property companies to implement a green lease How cR is mAnAgeD AT HAmmeRson clause in our standard lease contract, and introduced a Retail Tenants The wide scope of our CR approach in 2007 allowed for a high level Sustainability Guide to assist occupiers with their fit-out.
Take-up of engagement with stakeholders, not least Hammersons own has been good, with almost all retailers signing up to the groups employees.
However, in order to maintain momentum, we are keen developments in Bristol and Leicester adopting the clause.
to refocus our efforts on the issues that are material to our business.
This engagement with suppliers and occupiers has resulted in some Towards the end of last year, we therefore carried out a materiality rapid improvements in our CR performance in the managed portfolio.
study, including four of the five materiality tests put forward by At The Oracle shopping centre in Reading, for example, our local AccountAbility, a leading thinktank on social and environmental team worked with existing suppliers to reduce electricity consumption accountability in the UK.
Our study encompassed: a peer review: in both the covered malls and Riverside leisure area.
The solution analysis of legislative and regulatory norms: interviews with over was to replace standard spot lamps with new technology LED lights.
20 internal and external stakeholders, including CR Group members: The result has been a 14% reduction in electricity consumption and an analysis of those issues that have a direct link to the bottom at the centre and the initial investment in the new lighting system line.
As a result of this, we have prioritised five key issues on which has already been recouped in the form of lower energy bills.
The Hammerson will focus its CR efforts in future, as shown in the management team is now working with the same suppliers to box below.
CR targets for 2008 are grouped around these five implement a similar solution for the car parks and service areas, issues, and will be delivered by working groups representing the which promises to bring further energy savings in 2008. three principal areas of Hammersons business activity: operations, development and corporate.
We will be adopting a common Following the successful creation of training schemes during approach in the UK and France and, for the first time, targets the development of The Oracle, Reading in 1999 and WestQuay, will be shared across countries.
Southampton in 2000: and Bullring, Birmingham in 2003, pre-employment training programmes have been set up in Bristol fIvE ISSUES Of fOCUS Climate change and energy To reduce the carbon footprint of each of our properties.
To adapt our buildings to minimise the impact of climate change.
Resource use To maximise the efficiency of our use of natural resources.
To reduce waste and reuse where viable.
Community regeneration To invest in local communities including skills training and job creation.
Supply chain To engage with our suppliers to share best practice and to procure sustainable goods and services.
Customers To anticipate and meet our occupiers long-term needs.
To share best practice on sustainability issues.
032 Annual Report 2007 The CR Group will continue to agree overall CR strategy and monitor impacts and risks to the business.
Members of the CR Group, the progress of each working group.
In addition, task force groups will and the leaders of the working groups in the UK and France, research specific issues, reporting back to the CR group on possible are set out below.
MEMBERS Of ThE CR GROUP John Richards Chief Executive Paul Edwards Head of Sustainability, UK David Atkins Managing Director, UK Retail Jon Emery Managing Director, UK Development Jean-Philippe Mouton Director of Operations, France Andrew Thomson UK Operations Director Nick Hardie UK Finance Director Sheila King Director, Retail Leasing, UK Andrew Berger-North Director, Retail Parks, UK Philippe Bouveret Property Deputy Director, France Andrea Cockram Corporate Communications Manager OPERATIONS DEvElOPMEMT CORPORATE Working group leaders UK David Atkins Jon Emery Paul Edwards Managing Director, UK Retail Managing Director, UK Development Head of Sustainability Working group leaders france Eddie Bohbot Jean-Louis Coquand Valrie Petitbon Director, Retail Management Director, Retail Development Director, Marketing & Communications A formal audit of Hammersons progress against the 2007 CR sustainability advisor, this audit does not constitute a fully targets has been carried out in order to establish the extent of independent verification, but intends to provide assurance their completion.
Completed by Upstream, Hammersons strategic of progress achieved during the year.
ENvIRONMENTAl POlICY Hammerson recognises the importance of taking a proactive, strategic approach to environmental management and strives to be at the forefront of this area of management within the property industry.
Our Environmental Management Policy sets out two key commitments to stakeholders: To use best practice in the design and planning of our developments to ensure they respect their locations and enhance the environment.
To create and manage buildings which are operationally efficient, leading to lower consumption of natural resources and to reductions in waste and emissions generated during their lifecycles.
Hammerson recognises that adherence to environmental and planning legislation is the keystone of good environmental performance.
We comply with all relevant legislation and strive to exceed legal requirements where possible.
By conducting regular and independent reviews of our progress, as well as through engagement with stakeholders, we aim to achieve continuous improvement.
All employees, advisers and contractors have responsibility for delivering Hammersons environmental policy commitments and objectives.
Responsibility for overall governance of this policy lies with Hammersons CR Group, with the Operations and Development working groups tasked with implementation, and periodically reviewing the policy to ensure applicability and adherence to best practice.
Responsibility for overseeing this policy and ensuring it is upheld lies with the Chief Executive and Chairman of Hammersons CR Group, John Richards.
The full text of Hammersons Environmental Management Policy, and the Responsible Procurement Policy, are available on the groups website, www.
