This is a continuing practical Environmental Strategy problem, which is unlikely to be resolved given Corporate Investment and Refurbishments the unusual nature of the Groups portfolio.
In The Groups strategy is mainly to invest in and view of this, the Group will continue to monitor refurbish existing buildings.
This is in line with responsibility waste production, but considers that an Government policy for maximising the re-use of appropriate performance indicator will not be existing development land and buildings which identified.
A sample of two refurbishment sites consume a lower level of resources than were audited for good practice against duty of demolition and construction of new buildings.
care for waste management and were confirmed The Board recognises the importance to be operating satisfactorily.
Almost all of the Groups buildings are within of social, environmental and ethical Conservation Areas and many are listed.
Within matters in the conduct of the Groups these constraints, the Group seeks to refurbish Environmental Strategy - business.
The Chief Executive is buildings in a sympathetic manner reusing Longmartin Joint Venture responsible for the development and existing timber and original building fixtures The environmental strategy being implemented administration of policies and and fittings where possible.
When installing for the Longmartin scheme aims to reduce new fixtures and plant, consideration is given to procedures relating to Corporate adverse environmental impacts to create both environmental sustainability as well as building Responsibility.
The Board receives energy efficient new buildings and improve the regulations.
For example, where practical dual regular reports on Corporate efficiency of existing buildings in a sustainable flush cisterns are used, new boilers are Responsibility and Corporate manner.
Renewable energy sources are being condensing boilers, individual radiators have evaluated to supplement existing power sources.
Responsibility matters are taken into thermostat controls, double or secondary glazing A number of initiatives including green roofs and is installed, a minimum of 30% of new lights are account in annual corporate and new planting will enhance the estates overall required to be energy saving fittings, all new personal targets set by the biodiversity.
Vehicle recharging facilities will be water supplies have water meters.
available for hybrid vehicles and a car club and common parts, spray taps are installed as well cycle parking will also be made available.
as sunlight sensors for lighting.
Insulation for both acoustic and energy saving purposes is also The Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy is fitted.
The Group works with tenants to ensure reviewed annually to ensure it continues to Environmental Strategy that their plant and machinery is efficient and reflect the Corporate Responsibility risks and Property Management maintained to minimise the impact on opportunities relevant to the Group.
A revised In the day-to-day management of the Groups surrounding occupiers and environment.
Statement of Policies was approved by the Board portfolio, energy consumption and waste in July 2007.
The policy document and regular During refurbishment projects, it is recognised management are the key environmental issues.
progress reports are available on the Groups that the principal issues that require The Group continues to monitor energy website.
The annual external review was management are minimising local environmental undertaken in September 2007 by RPS consumption in the common parts of its portfolio impacts, particularly noise and dust, managing Consultants in order to verify working practices where it has direct responsibility.
Data collected construction waste and sourcing materials.
In against Policy Goals and achievement of indicates relatively low energy usage at the year: objectives and targets in the Action Plan.
The comparable levels to the data collected last year.
revised Policy, the results of the external review The rolling programme of replacing light fittings - Eight refurbishment schemes of a capital value which includes KPIs and environmental data in with long life low energy fittings: use of timer of above 75,000 have been registered with the this and previous years and the Action Plan are controls on lights: thermostats on boilers and Considerate Constructors Scheme.
75% of the available in full on the Groups website.
The maximising use of insulation and secondary schemes that have been audited achieved the following highlights key achievements and glazing continues where appropriate within the target score of 26 40.
This is a small decrease challenges during the year from the external portfolio.
in performance over last year 80%.
In September 2006, the electricity contract for - The Groups Corporate Responsibility Policy is The Group is a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Carnaby 40% of the portfolio was re-tendered included within tender documentation for Index, which acts as a guide to socially and the new contract supplies 100% green tariff subcontractors with guidance provided for the responsible investment, and this year has also energy.
It was intended that this would be specification of materials, waste management been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability extended to Seven Dials in 2007, but due to and checklists for legal compliance.
The Group has been awarded membership insufficient availability of green tariff energy this of Business in the Communitys PerCent Club, - The Contractors Induction leaflet, briefly has not yet been implemented.
recognising the Groups community investment of outlining the key points of Shaftesburys Water meters have now been installed in excess of 1% of pre-tax profits.
The Group has Corporate Responsibility Policy has been issued also retained its listing in the Kempen SNS throughout Carnaby and Seven Dials and in high to all subcontractors working on Shaftesburys usage areas in Chinatown.
Baseline data has Smaller European Index, the first sustainable portfolio.
index for smaller European companies and was been collected.
- The Group continues to adopt a policy of replaced third out of the FTSE350 in the Good Within the Groups portfolio, virtually all waste using timber where possible in its schemes.
Companies Guide compiled with research from is generated by the Groups tenants.
The Groups If additional timber is required, timber from The Co-operative Investments, part of The Copolicy is actively to encourage tenants to reduce certified sources is specified, and monitoring is operative Group.
waste, increase recycling by modifying their ongoing to identify the proportion that this activities and to organise communal facilities represents.
Where practical, dedicated - There have been no notifiable environmental refuse storage areas have been included within incidents within the portfolio during the year.
refurbishment schemes to improve the management of waste and improve the local Waste management activities were again environment.
monitored but it continued to be difficult to collect data in a form to compare against a recognisable performance indicator.
As a result of the small scale of most of the Groups refurbishment projects, the volumes of waste are relatively low and there is often insufficient space 58 AnnualReport2007 In Carnaby, the recycling and compacting Shaftesbury in the Community Employment Issues schemes continue to be a success and are well The Groups policy is to align its charitable The Group employs twenty staff including used by tenants.
It has not been possible to support and community involvement with its executive Directors.
The Corporate Responsibility obtain data on waste recycled.
An audit of waste areas of investment in Londons West End.
Policy contains policy statements on equal and recycling management in Carnaby in Support is provided to a number of organisations opportunities in employment and procedures for February 2007 recommended an extension of involved in the arts, theatre and music together reporting concerns regarding non-adherence to waste and recycling to the entire Carnaby estate, with support and involvement with community the Groups ethical standards which new compacting machinery and an estate-wide groups and charities which are addressing incorporates the Groups whistle blowing policy.
collection service to reduce the transportation of important local issues.
In addition, the Group The policy statements are supported by full waste.
These recommendations have now been continues to work closely with local statutory operational policies.
Flexible working for staff is implemented.
A new recycling point for the local bodies to maintain and improve the local accommodated according to individual residential community is being set up in environment.
The welfare, safety and training conjunction with the local authority.
In of employees is a key priority.
Chinatown, the Group continues to work closely Shaftesbury has long established relationships with Westminster City Council to manage the with several organisations which are directly The Group actively encourages staff training and issues that are specific to the area such as relevant to its business.
The Group also provides skills development and involvement in the controlling the problems of fly tipping and financial support and advice to the National development of the Groups business, Corporate disposal of food and oil waste.
Campaign for the Arts, the Art Fund, the Responsibility policies and targets and Association of British Orchestras, the Orchestra community activities.
All members of staff are The leaflet explaining the principles of the of the Age of Enlightenment, the Donmar eligible to participate in the Groups bonus and Groups Environmental policy developed to raise Theatre, the Royal Shakespeare Company and long term incentive schemes.
awareness of tenants of environmetal issues, the Theatres Trust.
Other organisations which is given to all new tenants.
In view of the small number of employees, the the Group has supported during the year Group does not consider that employee-based include: the London branch of the Samaritans key performance indicators would provide a located in Carnaby, the Hungerford Drugs Environmental Strategy meaningful measure of the performance of the Rehabilitation Project located in Chinatown, the Groups Office Group.
Soho Family Centre, the Soho Green Charity, the In the Groups office, environmental impacts Chinatown Association, the Chinatown Working are low risk and relate to energy consumption, Party, the Seven Dials Trust, the Yellow Earth Corporate Responsibility resource use and waste production.
Energy Theatre Company, The Tennis Foundation and Objectives for 2007 2008 consumption is relatively low but figures Victim Support Westminster Limited.
collated for 2006-2007 indicate an increase For 2007-2008 the following key objectives have The Group recognises that its villages must offer in consumption over previous years 22 tonnes been set to build on the achievements to date: safe, well-maintained and welcoming carbon equivalent against 17.9 tonnes carbon - Continue to utilise 100% brownfield sites: environments if they are to continue to appeal to equivalent in 2005-2006.
The figure, however, when benchmarked against floor area indicates tenants, their staff and customers, and local - Continue to track the sourcing of materials, residents.
This is particularly challenging in that energy usage is significantly better than particularly timber, and aim to purchase a best practice for an air conditioned office at these central locations where visitor numbers minimum of 30% from sustainable sources: are high and trading hours are often long.
In October 2006, the Group - Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a switched to a green tariff electricity supplier.
A Group continues to work closely with specified capital value are signed to the Westminster City Council, Camden Council, the paper recycling scheme continues to be Considerate Constructors Scheme and operated and volume of paper used is consistent police and other bodies to develop practical continue to achieve 26 40 above the solutions to local issues, supporting initiatives with previous years.
satisfactory score : such as CCTV, improved street cleaning and waste disposal, and environmental - Extend use of green tariff electricity to Health and Safety Issues improvements.
Seven Dials: Health and safety is an important aspect of the During the year, the Group has partnered local - Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby and Groups business and operations.
Overall authorities and charities to promote and provide Seven Dials: responsibility rests with the Board of Directors financial support for street and lighting and the Chief Executive has day to day - Continue to develop a waste management improvement works in Carnaby, Seven Dials and responsibility for ensuring that the Groups strategy for Carnaby and Seven Dials in order Chinatown which will improve public safety and Health and Safety Policy is adhered to.
Health to encourage recycling by tenants: accessibility.
A number of other schemes are and safety is identified within pre-tender scheduled for the year ahead.
In addition, the documentation and is monitored on site by site - Promote initiatives in Chinatown to improve Group supports and endorses the Soho Action managers and project managers.
Plan which aims to help Soho achieve its full managing agents oversee health and safety on - Continue to support local community groups potential whilst preserving its unique character, an ongoing basis in respect of the Groups and continue to be proactive in mentoring the Chinatown Action Plan and the Covent portfolio management responsibilities.
charitable and other organisations Garden Action Plan.
There were no reportable health and safety incidents during the year in either the Groups Jonathan S Lane portfolio or at its offices.
