67 warner estate holdings plc corporate social responsibility 66 warner estate holdings plc summary directors report directors report continued s u m m a r y d i r e c t o r s r e p o r t c o r p o r a t e s o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y business of the An interim dividend of 10p per This is our fifth year of reporting Health & Safety within assets The Carbon Trust has reviewed group share was paid on 23 February on Corporate Social Responsibility where construction work is a number of the properties in 2007 and it is proposed to pay CSR and we continue to expand being undertaken continues to be our funds and Wholly Owned The principal business of the a final dividend of 11p per share, our CSR initiatives.
The Company addressed as an important issue.
The lessons learnt Group is property investment, making a total of 21p per share remains committed to conducting We have altered the management from these assessments will be together with the management of for the year ended 31 March its business activities in a socially of these projects to reflect our applied across other similar assets properties in the United Kingdom.
If approved by the Annual responsible way whilst achieving new responsibilities under the within the business.
In addition On 1 April 2007, Warner Estate General Meeting to be held on business growth.
This commitment revised Construction and Design to benefits to the environment Holdings PLC converted into 12 September 2007, the proposed is recognised by our continued Management Regulations.
these initiatives will reduce our a Real Estate Investment Trust dividend will be paid on 21 membership of the FTSE4Good operating costs.
environmental September 2007 to shareholders Index Series.
We have commenced the awareness on the register at the close of results for the year We are investing in training design and letting of a flagship business on 24 August 2007. and dividends Protecting our environment for for our staff to ensure that sustainable development project This dividend will be an ordinary the benefit of future generations they manage the business in a in Birkenhead.
This will include The Group results are set out in dividend with no property income continues to increase in importance.
responsible manner and CSR is the design, construction and the consolidated income statement distribution PID element The management of our business regularly reported on to the Board.
A review under the REIT regime.
Dividends has reflected this change.
We recognise the need for this knowledge gained from this work of the results for the year and the for 2008 will contain both a PID continuing commitment.
will be used to benefit other parts prospects for the future along Our Board has adopted a element, subject to withholding of the business.
with the Groups key performance Sustainability Policy that applies tax for certain shareholders, and health and safety indicators are included in the across the business.
This sets out a non-PID element.
employees Chairmans Statement on page 10, the manner in which we will The Property Director chairs the Property Review on operate in addressing sustainability regular meetings with senior We recognise that the success company website page 16 and the Finance Review issues.
The Companys staff and the managers to consider existing of our business depends on the The Company has a website on page 42. consultants and contractors that it and new Health & Safety capabilities and dedication of our providing information on the uses are presented with this Policy initiatives.
This group also ensures people.
We continue to employ a Company including the latest as a clear means of providing compliance with new and existing diverse workforce: recognising the set of accounts and press releases.
guidance on what we expect legislation that applies to the value of diversity and believing This can be found by going to the to achieve.
it to be an important element of Company website address which sustainable success.
We are extending the number of A comprehensive written Health is www.
development projects where the & Safety Policy has been produced We continue to strive to be Building Research Establishment during the year with the assistance an employer of choice in our Environmental Assessment of an external adviser.
This was industry and to attract, retain, Method BREEAM is being adopted by the Board and the motivate and reward high By Order of the Board used as a means of assessing our business is now working with calibre people.
We work to achieve a clear understanding of each Secretary We remain committed to the highest accreditation in individuals responsibility for their 19 June 2007 investing in the development of the circumstances.
Specialist own and others health and safety.
our employees by recognising consultants have been appointed We have commenced a their potential and providing to help us with this process.
comprehensive training appropriate training and programme to raise our staffs development opportunities.
awareness and understanding of We strive to offer employees their role in addressing Health career opportunities by advertising & Safety.
This has been tailored vacancies prior to conducting to meet the role and types of external recruitment campaigns.
assets that each individual is dealing with.
