Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 33 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 70% 70% of this years surplus was contributed by rental growth customers, risk is not compounded but 1-3 Maximising our potential shared and substantially reduced.
The focus of last years Sustainability Report was our marketplace and the environment in which we operate.
That is why we used the Mayors London Plan as a key A detailed assessment of the Groups risk reference.
In 2007, with an eye very much on climate profile by reference to the recognised change, we have focused on the impacts of our business sources of risk may be found on the Groups our own, and those of our customers and suppliers.
A summary of this The report highlights the steps we have undertaken to assessment may be found in the section on better understand those impacts, the challenges they Corporate Governance see page 69. present and the greatest opportunities for change.
We hope that as a document it is engaging and sets out an agenda for Social, Ethical and further engagement and partnership over the coming year.
Environmental SEE issues Our business is founded on a financially attractive yet sustainable business model.
From the recycling of older buildings that have outlived their former use, to the provision of an attractive customer focused occupational offer, to new and emerging small businesses, SEE concerns are addressed not just by the way we conduct our business but by the business itself.
Our corporate, social, and environmentally responsible strategies are at the heart of the Workspace strategy supporting our commercial success.
We believe that 1. addressing social, ethical and environmental issues is not simply philanthropy but something that has yielded commercial benefits to the Group.
A more detailed analysis of the Groups engagement is included in the Corporate Governance report on page 70 and in the Groups annual Sustainability Reports.
Harry Platt Chief Executive 11 June 2007 3.
To access more information our corporate responsibility programme, go to workspacegroup.
