Operating review continued Environment Our CSR environmental strategy embraces the whole corporate spectrum Responsible from small initiatives including recycling our polystyrene coffee cups through to major projects like reducing the carbon footprint in our manufacturing sites.
The companys environmental policy has been in place for 15 years and is reviewed and busness updated on a frequent basis.
The manufacturing sites and national Dairy Crest Group plc is committed to the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility distribution centre continue to retain their CSR.
This focus has already lead to some impressive results.
Going forward we will third party accreditation against the continue to use the framework set out by Business in the Community BiTC in international environmental management managing our CSR activity.
This covers four specific areas: the environment, the system EMS standard ISO 14,001. marketplace, the workplace and the community.
Foston achieved accreditation during the The companys CSR committee meets regularly and is attended by the Chief year, as did our acquired dairy at Executive and other executive board directors.
Within the company, colleagues are Nottingham: the Liverpool dairy committed to CSR excellence through good practices as well as working hard to raise is planned to achieve accreditation money for the corporate charity.
In April of this year we hit our target of raising 1 million in September 2007. for Leukaemia Research a great achievement and something we are very proud of.
Stars of the popular ITV programme Emmerdale help celebrate raising 1 million for Leukaemia Research.
16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 Our on-site management systems are the The change in product mix accounts for The Courtauld Commitment means basis for our environmental improvement the absence of any further reduction in we have agreed to support WRAP in programmes and the targets for our water use, as milk bottle washing working towards the achievement of its Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control uses more water than that needed for objectives of designing out packaging IPPC licences are on schedule.
waste growth by 2008, delivering The Companys environmental absolute reductions in packaging waste performance data shown on page 18 The Courtauld Commitment by 2010 and identifying ways to tackle reflect the sale of the Aspatria and Dairy Crest is committed to developing the problem of food waste.
Our Haverfordwest cheese factories and a more environmentally sustainable Courtauld Commitment action plan will the acquisition of the Liverpool and solution for dairy packaging.
For the last ensure that sustainability will continue to Nottingham dairies.
two years we have been working closely be a fundamental consideration in the A significant year on year reduction in with WRAP, the Governments Waste development of our packaging materials COD a measure of milk waste has been Recycling Action Programme, on a and formats going forward.
primarily driven by operational number of collaborative packaging In March 2007 we were central to the improvements at our dairy sites together innovation projects to develop more launch of the worlds first plastic milk with the changes in cheese product mix sustainable packaging formats for our bottle using recycled material.
The manufacture and milk-in-glass production.
In January we were bottles will now contain 10% recycled A similar positive trend has been seen in delighted to become the first dairy high-density polyethylene HDPE.
our energy usage in manufacturing.
company to sign the Courtauld Consumers will be encouraged to Commitment.
recycle more of their plastic milk bottles through clear on-pack labelling.
This innovation was the result of collaboration between Marks and Spencer, Dairy Crest, Nampak and WRAP and forms part of Marks and Spencers 200 million eco-plan, which includes a commitment to use packaging materials only from sustainable or recycled sources.
We are proud to be part of this plan.
Marketplace We continue to set increasingly high standards for food safety throughout our supply chain and have recently enhanced our GMP Good Manufacturing Practice review and audit processes.
Our focus is on the application of GMP standards and the risk based HACCP system Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points, controlled within an effective management system.
Our manufacturing site quality management systems are all third party accredited and we are currently piloting the international standard for food safety management system ISO 22,000 at two sites.
We have undertaken extended testing of our crisis management procedures through a crisis scenario exercise and four workshops on product recall management.
Our crisis management process this year has included preparation and planning for a potential pandemic flu outbreak.
A working group updates regularly these plans.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 17 Operating review continued Emissions to milk The speed of our traceability process is and capable management from within intake trend % being significantly enhanced with the the organisation.
We have therefore put Company CO2 introduction of the new MRP II in place a number of initiatives to enable 100 98 97 computerised manufacturing control our employees to maximise their 92 system.
76 We pay increasing attention to the We have a continuous commitment risks of allergens in our products and to training and development at all levels in in addition to our supply chain controls the organisation.
In particular we have we undertake a full audit of each of our recognised the need to develop the skills products to confirm the accuracy of our within our supervisory teams.
This group allergen labelling and the absence of risk is at the centre of our target to retain, 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 from cross contamination.
We have engage and develop our staff.
In 2006 recently joined the anaphylaxis campaign, we launched a supervisory 6-day Product losses to further raise the awareness of this programme called Leading 4 Change.
to effluent v milk important element of our food integrity.
This covers the essential skills required to intake trend % Work is continuing with the Foods lead a team.
Working with Site Directors, Company COD Standards Agency FSA to ensure that Leading 4 Change has been tailor 100 the nutritional status of the companys made to suit the Dairy Crest supervisory 91 80 product portfolio is aligned with the FSA role.
More than 120 people attended in 68 nutrition strategy.
Our policy in the area 2006 and the programme received a 53 of nutrition is twofold: to provide very positive response throughout the consumers with choice and to provide business.
This year we are planning the the information they need in order that same significant investment for the rest they can make informed decisions about of our supervisory population.
the food they choose to eat.
For the third year we have invested 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 Over the past two years we have in our Operational Excellence programme.
achieved a reduction of salt in cheese This programme develops the technical Water to milk and we have focused our production skills needed for line managers when intake trend % improvement programme to ensure operating a site, and leads ultimately to Company water that we now have a range of reduced the attainment of an MSc accredited by 100 97 97 fat options.
89 89 We continue to support our Workplace Manufacturing Improvement programme We recognise that our future growth and which trains employees in more efficient prosperity will continue to depend on our manufacturing processes.
Significant ability to attract and retain the very best improvements in quality and costs have employees.
We are pleased to welcome been achieved through this projectour new colleagues from Express and based course.
02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 Uniq who increase our workforce total to We continue to place a great 8,500.
In addition we have some 1,600 emphasis on Performance Management Accident incident rate franchisees.
throughout the organisation via our by year % The integration of the Express and Performance Development Review Company AIR St Hubert businesses is progressing well.
The aim of the PDR is to: % of 02 03 Ind Std The closure of the old Express Head Enable managers to make objective 96 93 91 88 Office in Leicester and transfer of assessments of employee 76 activities to our Household Head Office performance in Aldershot will be completed in the Create an alignment of company Autumn of 2007.
We have commenced and personal objectives the process of sharing Best Practice Agree personal development plans with our St Hubert colleagues and the to maximise individual potential and St Hubert Management Team they support effective succession planning.
02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 will participate in the Dairy Crest Group We regularly consult with our workforce annual and long-term incentive plans.
and seek to retain a positive relationship We believe passionately that one with our recognised trade unions.
To this of the key routes to our success is the end, we have commenced a collaborative promotion of knowledgeable, experienced process to review our core people 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 policies and procedures with an efforts include taking part in the London It has been an incredible four years and we objective to achieve improvements in Marathon, parachute jumps and have been overwhelmed by the fantastic employee engagement and higher levels organising a golf day.
The Dairy Crest support of Dairy Crest employees and of productivity.
Colleagues also meet team in conjunction with our loyal customers.
Raising 1 million is a huge with management on a formal basis to household customers raised the largest achievement and one you should all be consult over matters such as Health and corporate donation that Leukaemia proud of.
You have paid for crucial research Safety and Pensions.
Those across the UK, helping us to give every We also distribute a number of involved should be very proud.
patient with a blood cancer the very best company newsletters and employees are The Company also has a staff lottery, chance of survival.
regularly informed of the Groups financial called Quids In where employees can Cathy Gilman, Chief Executive, results and the market conditions in which give 1 per week to charity.
Additionally Leukaemia Research it operates.
To encourage the involvement they can donate via their local payroll of employees in the Group performance, department through the Payroll Giving we operate a Sharesave Scheme and scheme.
in addition the directors, managers and At Dairy Crest we actively encourage many other employees are members of local sites and depots to become a discretionary bonus scheme.
involved in and support the communities Importantly, we are in the process of where they are based.
establishing Corporate Values, which will At Davidstow in Cornwall the home underpin the behaviour of every of Cathedral City, site director Alan Wren colleague in our business.
It is our and colleagues joined the Business in intention to begin the process of the Community CARES scheme to embedding these values over the next support local CSR initiatives including 12 months to ensure that the values working at the soup kitchens in reflect the way we go about our Plymouth, participating in ITVs Big Clean business.
An update on our progress will Up and clearing a duck pond and area in be included in the next annual report.
Colleagues The Health and Safety of our also took an environmental challenge at employees and other people affected by the Saltram Estate in Cornwall which the Company is an integral part of needed a team of 50 volunteers to managing our business.
The Group remove young elm trees to allow ash Health and Safety steering committee trees more room to grow and thrive.
meets monthly and reports to the Board At a national level, after almost four Dairy Crest was biannually.
The steering committee has years with Leukaemia Research it was awarded the Starpack established a three year strategy which time to choose a new corporate charity Gold Award for sets core objectives and requirements to partner.
Following a rigorous selection recycled HDPE milk improve the Company Health and Safety process and panel interviews the new bottles Best use of performance and culture and to drive corporate charity partner has just innovative materials.
consistent standards across the been selected.
For the next two years company.
The main areas we are Dairy Crest colleagues will be giving focusing on include Audits, Inspections, their time and energy to raise money, Risk Assessments, Training, with the help of household customers, Communication, Accident Investigation, for The Make a Wish Foundation, a Health and Well Being and Absence charity committed to granting the Management.
wishes of terminally ill children.
CSR and what it stands for is very Community important to Dairy Crest.
If you would Dairy Crest colleagues have been fund like more information please go to our raising for the corporate charity partner, our corporate website Leukaemia Research for just under four www.
In April 2007 the target figure of The Make a Wish Foundation please 1 million was hit.
The support from the visit their website at Dairy Crest team has been fantastic.
uk Many of our staff as individuals or as part of a team have demonstrated that they really do care.
Examples of their Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 19
