CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 36 DMGT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 AWARD-WINNING MENTORSHIP CHARITY ADVANCE SUPPORTED BY DMGT 2 THE QUEEN OPENS ARMED FORCES MEMORIAL FOLLOWING DAILY MAIL CAMPAIGN 3 NEWSPRINT PRODUCTION WASTE FALLS AGAIN 4 EUROMONEY RAISED MONEY FOR A CHILDRENS EYE CLINIC 5 DMGT DONATED THE ARMED FORCES MEMORIAL WAS OPENED 866,000 TO CHARITY IN 2007 6 CARBON INITIATIVE UNDERTAKEN NEAR LICHFIELD FOLLOWING A CAMPAIGN BY THE DAILY MAIL TO COMMEMORATE THE DEATHS OF MORE THAN 15,600 SOLDIERS.
DMGTs activities are global and diverse.
Please Each business provides important channels send any comments to: of communication and media focus to investor.
@ different sections of society throughout the world.
The DMGT Boards Risk Committee is the forum at which corporate responsibility The Group owes much of its success to the CR risks are discussed.
The Board has entrepreneurial ability of the management adopted policies on equal opportunities, teams leading its six divisions.
These whistle blowing, health and safety and the businesses have thrived by allowing local environment.
Overall responsibility for CR management to take local decisions in at Board level lies with the Finance Director.
a local context, while benefiting from the global outlook and financial resources DMGT AND THE ENVIRONMENT of the wider Group.
The direct environmental impacts from most of our mostly office-based divisions The success of many of DMGTs businesses are relatively low and arise mainly in our is inextricably linked to understanding and printing division.
engaging with the communities they serve, and this allows them to identify needs Our offices around the world practise and to campaign effectively on the issues paper recycling, and more than half of relevant to their customer base.
This office paper waste at DMGT headquarters approach has delivered benefits to a is recycled.
There are also schemes in broad range of stakeholders.
place for the recycling of plastic cups, toner cartridges, mobile phones and THE AIM OF THIS REPORT IT equipment.
The following report provides more detail of divisional activities focused around key Our main focus is on how we manage the impact areas: impact of our Harmsworth Printing arm in the environment the UK and two presses in Hungary, where our readers, viewers and listeners the key environmental impacts are waste the community generation particularly waste newsprint, TARGETS FOR WASTE PAPER ARE SET FOR EACH PRODUCT our employees.
energy use, ink use, and paper purchasing.
Reported here is a summary of our disclosure All printing centres have environmental in this area.
DMGT produced a separate management policies.
The use of energy, Corporate Responsibility Report in 2005.
It newsprint, ink and plates and waste has a dedicated section on the Group website, disposal have cost implications and are, www.
co. uk, with further information therefore, managed for reasons of good available that is updated regularly.
business sense, as well as to reduce their environmental impact.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 37 continued Efficiency DMGT sources its paper from European The Group achieved a marginal mills, most of which hold the environmental improvement in CO2 efficiency, as explained management standard ISO14001.
Ninetyon page 16 of the Business Review.
eight per cent of virgin fibre products are NEWSPRINT PRODUCTION WASTE FELL AGAIN Newsprint production waste, as a sourced from managed forests.
percentage of total output, fell again.
DMGTS CARBON FOOTPRINT Good improvements were made in water During the past year DMGT has employed efficiency during the year with Harmsworth an external firm of consultants to carry Printing making further strides to cut out a Carbon Footprint Analysis across the water use in its printing operations, whole Group.
They focused on every facility following a previous study.
within the Group, gathering data for the base year of 2005 6 and then for the 2006 7 Waste financial year.
In 2005 6 the Groups Carbon Waste newsprint and ink use is measured Footprint was 116,000 tonnes, which and reported to divisional board meetings increased to 119,000 tonnes in 2006 7. on a monthly basis.
Seventy per cent of The results of the exercise to calculate the presses on which we print the Groups the Groups Carbon Footprint are being titles are computer-to-plate processes, analysed with a view to developing a which result in less waste being produced strategy for its reduction.
Digital photography is used in ever increasing amounts.
OUR READERS, VIEWERS AND LISTENERS Targets for waste paper are set for each Editorial standards product printed.
This percentage varies There are a number of standard-setting according to certain criteria, such as the bodies that have established codes to 100% numbers of copies required and edition which DMGTs divisions adhere.
Actual waste volumes are WASTE IS RECYCLED compared against budgeted levels, with The main code for the Groups UK the results provided for monthly review newspapers is established and monitored at the appropriate board level.
Newsprint by the Press Complaints Commission.
The production waste as a percentage of total newspapers also adhere to the Code of newspaper output has fallen again Practice of Newspaper and Magazine this year.
Teletext works to the standards set by Ofcom and its Editorial Code of One hundred per cent of production paper Practice which covers current broadcasting waste is recycled.
legislation, while DMG Radio complies with the Australian Communications and Media Sourcing Authority Codes of Conduct and the DMGT is aware of the responsibility it has Commercial Radio Codes of Practice and along the supply chain, in particular for one Broadcasting Services Act.
of its largest purchases: newsprint.
The Group has a central Newsprint Committee, Responding to reader, viewer and listener allowing co-ordinated review of the needs environmental credentials of paper Remaining in touch with the diverse groups suppliers and the sourcing of their products.
who make up our communities and reflecting and championing their interests Where virgin fibres are used in the paper is critical to DMGTs success.
manufacture, DMGT requires that the forests are certified either by the Forest Reader, viewer and listener satisfaction Stewardship Council or the Pan European is monitored in a number of ways, Forestry Commission, both of which run including timely responses to complaints, schemes that provide credible guarantees regular in-house programming and sales that the product comes from well research, readership surveys and other managed forests.
processes to receive feedback actively from customers.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 38 continued Within the established editorial framework, Internal communication editors and journalists have the freedom A variety of approaches to staff to operate as appropriate.
Compliance with communications exist within the Group, THE PAPER USED FOR editorial standards is strictly monitored including: LANDMARKS REPORTS WILL within the divisions in various ways, the Group extranet NOW BE OFFSET WITH TREE which include compliance committees, regular communication events PLANTINGS AS PART OF A NEW PARTNERSHIP WITH THE editorial responsibility, compliance audits face-to-face communications with WOODLAND TRUST.
management programmes related to specific key DMGT AND THE COMMUNITY events such as major changes in Community involvement is integral to operations or equipment.
our business as well as to the personal motivation of our employees.
We donate Furthermore, a new Group intranet, DMGT money, time and in-kind donations such Connect will be launched in December.
as radio airtime and Teletext pages, and staff actively give time to areas including Health and safety fundraising and trusteeships.
This year, A health and safety policy applies across Euromoney undertook a project to build a DMGT and sets out to ensure the health, childrens eye clinic in Orissa, the poorest safety and welfare of its employees and state in India, in order to tackle avoidable all others who could be affected by the blindness in the region.
In 2007, the Group donated 866,000 There are many examples of good practice 866,000 to charity.
across the Group, in terms of health and DMGT DONATED 866,000 safety management systems, the use of TO CHARITY IN 2007.
The use of media channels and activities independent consultants and initiatives for fundraising is driven through focused on business-specific health and participation in the communities we serve safety risk areas.
and the concerns and contributions of our readers, viewers and listeners.
Health and safety is particularly critical in all printing press facilities, which have Charitable donations are allocated by a appropriate policies and management and Charities Committee at DMGT, as well as monitoring programmes.
being made on a smaller scale by divisional and local managements.
The Committee The Group has had no fines or prefers to make donations to media and prosecutions for health and safety failures local charities where there is an employee over the last year.
representative who will sponsor and report back on the impact the allocation has had.
While the Chief Executive has overall responsibility at Board level for health DMGT AND OUR EMPLOYEES and safety matters throughout the Group, DMGT Group is an equal opportunities day-to-day responsibility is devolved to employer.
In addition to a Group policy, the managing directors of each division.
many divisions have their own policies and practices across a range of employee issues.
Training is taken seriously across the Group.
A GROUP-WIDE INTRANET, DMGT CONNECT, IS ABOUT TO BE LAUNCHED TO KEEP EMPLOYEES UP TO DATE WITH KEY DEVELOPMENTS.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
