CORpORaTE & SOCial RESpONSibiliTy In 2008, the Company will participate in DaNa aimS TO aSSiST the annual Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time.
The Company recognises ORGaNiSaTiONS fOCuSED ON the increased awareness and importance of issues related to carbon emissions and pROviDiNG HiGH qualiTy SuppORT considers participation in this survey as an appropriate step for a Company of Danas TO lOCal COmmuNiTiES iN OuR scale.
As Dana is generally a non-operator KEy REGiONS Of OpERaTiON of the assets in which it holds interests, the carbon emissions over which Dana has direct control are relatively low.
However, recognition from Scottish and Westminster CARE Egypt to fund educational, agricultural efficiency gains are sought wherever governments.
The Foyer focuses on issues and sanitary projects.
The projects focus possible and the use of teleand videoin relation to homelessness, drugs and on promoting basic education, especially conferencing is encouraged to reduce the getting people into steady and worthwhile for girls in Upper Egypt, promoting the number of flights undertaken.
Specific examples of participation of women and youth in local most of the inter-company communication programmes are flats provided to homeless governance, and combating violence against between Aberdeen, Oslo and Cairo is young people, Foyer Drive which is a women.
CARE had originally intended to undertaken using email, teleor videounique scheme for providing disadvantaged support just two projects, but because conferencing with business travel kept to young people with affordable means of of the level of support from Dana and a minimum.
obtaining the driving licence that will help other organisations, three very important As the Company expands and enters towards employment, and a range of social programme initiatives were supported.
new countries, there is recognition of enterprises.
Again, Danas financial contribution and the social responsibility to be directly support directly helps individuals and assist In Egypt, the Company is involved in a involved in supporting local communities.
poor and marginalised people in Egypt to number of charitable organisations, which In the last year, in parallel with acquiring overcome poverty and to live with dignity demonstrates its commitment to the local new businesses in Egypt and Norway, and hope.
the Company has implemented support During 2008, Dana will seek to expand its for a number of organisations which are On a monthly basis, Dana donates food charitable giving in Egypt, and is currently considered to be particularly focused on parcels to the value of $500 to a local looking at relevant organisations with which providing high quality support to the local orphanage.
These donations directly help to work.
some of the most vulnerable and needy children in Cairo on an ongoing basis and The Company also supports its employees In the Aberdeen area, the Company has are particularly vital given the current who are directly involved with charitable recently made a significant donation to the inflation rates, and hence rising food prices, and community activities.
The Aberdeen Foyer was being experienced in Egypt.
established in 1995 to prevent and alleviate homelessness and unemployment amongst A number of Dana Egypt employees vulnerable 16-25 year olds living in North participated in the 2007 BG Challenge East Scotland.
The charity has grown rapidly event held in Sinai in December.
As part of and through pragmatic and innovative this event the Company donated $8,000 to routes, has delivered real results and Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 19
