Corporate social responsibility Overview operations should be matched by the companies and organisations Our belief is that the proper management of environmental, ethical with whom we do business.
and social issues makes us a better business, and we see no conflict between managing these issues whilst pursuing profitable growth in Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere a manner consistent with legal and ethical norms.
we ensure that our products have been tested for safety, health and environmental issues.
At the same time our policy is to work in Initiatives have already been undertaken in four key areas: partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on the environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
Supply chain To improve labour, environmental and social practices in the Group's We source products exclusively from factories that are committed supply chain, by ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental impact.
made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps to ensure We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit from the they are met.
trade in our products and this would be undermined if our suppliers manufacturing production was operating at the expense of the quality Environment of life of those involved.
While the Board considers that the environmental impact of the business is low, the Group continues to seek ways to improve the Group's use of We have introduced two different kinds of audit procedures which are energy, the impact of its transport fleet and use of bulk materials such as designed to ensure proper environmental standards in our suppliers paper and packaging.
factories and to monitor the quality of our products in this respect these are known as the Factory Audit and the Final Random Inspection.
People During the year the number of Factory Audits for new suppliers rose To provide a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment from 33 to 43 and the number of Final Random Inspections increased and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff.
Offering from 967 to 1626. them a safe and healthy place of work.
We wish to be recognised as a good employer aiming to reward people fairly and to provide equality Our quality team based in Shenzhen, China carries out regular factory of opportunity, personal development and training.
audits to ensure that they meet the strict social, environmental and supply chain standards we require.
We know the identity of all our suppliers and Communities the location of where their products are being manufactured.
We work with our customers and local communities, contributing to community activities in the areas we serve.
We also support and The team also carries out random inspections of goods before encourage staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
shipments to ensure that quality standards are being maintained.
They coordinate new product development which includes communicating Supply chain between quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality assurance Customers increasingly expect that manufacturers should have laboratory based in the UK.
procedures in place to ensure that the products they sell have been ethically produced from beginning to end.
Environment Our objective is to minimise the environmental impact of all our As an electricals retailer we have a relatively low operational impact but operations throughout the Group.
We also want to ensure that neither a number of critical supply chain issues.
Many of our electrical products our products nor our operations adversely affect the health of our are sourced through the major international brands who have their own customers, our employees or the community at large.
We are committed to the promotion and marketing of energy efficient We do not have significant operations or retail outlets in countries that products that minimise emissions of CO2.
Figures for the past year show present a material risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour standards that we are selling an increasing number of A-rated fridges and freezers.
or protection of civil or political rights, however some of our suppliers do.
This demonstrates the success of our in-store customer information We are determined that the respect for human rights in our own and the professional advice provided by our sales staff.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 15 Corporate social responsibility Left: Kesa is committed to selling Opposite: Nelly Olin, the French an increasing number of A-rated minister responsible for the products.
environment visited Darty to observe its industry-leading recycling process.
Opposite right: Comet has introduced customer service training for its home delivery employees.
We produce guides on saving energy in the home and we work with the In France WEEE came into force in November 2006.
Dartys recycling Energy Saving Trust in the UK.
programme in Mitry-Mory predated this by some years, benefiting from the use of reverse logistics.
Nelly Olin the French minister with We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and to ensure responsibility for the environment visited Mitry-Mory as she saw it that it can be recycled.
Darty has been especially proactive in this as one of the best examples of WEEE in practice.
respect as they collect all waste packaging when delivering a household appliance unless the customer requests otherwise.
During 2006, Darty recycled 95 per cent of its waste, mostly comprising products.
Packaging waste is also collected from Dartys warehouses and after sales service centres.
All Darty stores send their waste back to a People distribution centre to be sorted for recycling.
Last year alone Darty We want our employees to have satisfying and rewarding careers recycled 16,763 tonnes of packaging waste.
By respecting and valuing our employees we will engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent.
As a further environmental measure we are consciously trying to minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
We continue to develop opportunities for our employees to be heard and we value their input on how the business is being run.
Our The Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS is an EU directive communication channels include regular workers councils where issues which restricts the use of certain substances in electrical equipment.
are discussed with representatives from across the organisation.
This makes it easier to recycle and also protects general health and the We also have many other forums for discussion and we regularly environment.
We ensure compliance with this legislation in a number conduct employee surveys which allow management to take a wide of ways, including a declaration of compliance from all our suppliers, range of viewpoints into account.
process checks to detect banned substances and specific factory assessments.
RoHS is designed to work alongside the Waste, We are committed to extending our training programmes to provide Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive WEEE.
our people with the opportunities to develop their skills and achieve rewarding careers within the Group.
By carefully assessing their abilities WEEE and ambitions we gain a better understanding of their specific training The rapid development of new technology has created high levels needs.
We are closely monitoring the number of training days we provide of hazardous electronic and electrical waste.
to ensure that we are meeting our training goals and we are pleased to report that these have significantly increased over the past year.
In July 2007 the WEEE directive comes into force in the UK.
Its aim is to minimise the impact of electrical and electronic equipment on the In the UK we are members of Opportunity Now, which focuses on the environment when those products eventually become waste.
In order needs of women at work.
to sell products within the EU manufacturers must now demonstrate compliance with the new regulations.
This means that electrical retailers We actively promote health, safety and welfare for both colleagues and must extend their take back facilities to cover all categories including customers across all our sites and we have a team of advisors who smaller appliances such as kettles and microwaves.
monitor and report to our company secretary on these issues.
We have established key performance indicators for accidents at work and are Comet was one of the first major retailers to sign up to the retail pleased to report that the number of accidents is being steadily reduced.
compliance scheme which is run by WEEE compliance organisation Valpak on behalf of the British Retail Consortium.
We have established a written Code of Conduct which outlines the ethical standards we expect from all employees of companies that KESA Comet, along with Wincanton and social enterprise organisation owns.
This includes permanent and contract staff, external consultants Remploy, won the 2006 national recycling award for the best partnership and suppliers.
project for recycling in preparation for WEEE.
The scheme has now been rolled out nationally and anticipates recycling up to 500,000 items at its home delivery platforms every year.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 Communities 2 The number of accidents or injuries to staff Since 1985, Darty has been the leading partner of the ENVIE The provision of a safe and healthy place of work for our staff is a programme which provides training for the long-term unemployed in primary concern and key responsibility.
the repair of electrical products.
During a two-year programme, trainees practice on discarded products which are then sold from ENVIE stores 3 The percentage of energy efficient A-rated products sold at heavily discounted prices.
Since its launch, ENVIE has trained over Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help our customers choose more 6,000 people.
A-rated products use the least amount of energy, thereby benefiting both our customers and the environment.
With the WEEE directive now in force, ENVIE plays a growing role in processing end of life products.
4 The number of tonnes of packaging waste collected and recycled Through our distribution channels and warehouses we can efficiently Comet is the founder partner of a similar scheme in the UK, RENEW.
collect our customers waste for recycling.
Based on learnings from Darty and ENVIE, RENEW also trains the 2006 07 2005 06 long-term unemployed to repair unusable electrical appliances.
Staff training 44,753 38,901 Accidents injuries 2,410 2,609 For the past two years Comet has been raising money for the British A-rated products sold 66.7% 55.6% Heart Foundation through a wide range of employee initiatives and Package waste recycled tonnes 20,356 19,748 schemes.
In 2006, they raised 150,000 which provided local Excludes BUT.
communities with five new specialist heart nurses.
The Company also supports numerous charities through a range of sponsored events.
In France, Darty supports specific initiatives to help bright young people from disadvantaged homes pursue their education.
It has also signed up to the chart dapprentissage to provide opportunities in apprenticeships.
Darty supports initiatives in the medical research and social area and last year donated138,000 for the Fondation Pasteur Weizman.
It also raised over168,000 for childrens charities through the sale of small scale models of their home service vans.
In Belgium, Vanden Borre donated120,000 to an organisation that provides day care facilities for the disabled.
Performance criteria As part of our commitment to corporate social responsibility, we are setting targets and objectives that we expect our companies to meet.
To help us assess and monitor progress against these targets we have extended the use of key performance indicators into non-financial areas.
The focus for the past financial year was: 1 The number of days spent on staff training As a specialist electrical retailer, it is important that we create a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of talented staff who have excellent customer service skills and product knowledge.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 17
