CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DURING 2006 07 THE COMPANY HAS PLACED EMPHASIS ON AMELIORATING THE IMPACT OF ITS BUSINESS ON THE ENVIRONMENT.
THE COMPANY ALSO CONTINUES TO RECOGNISE THE IMPORTANCE OF RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, ITS COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES, ITS HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMME AND RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES AND CUSTOMERS.
Corporate responsibility issues The Corporate Responsibility are integral to all aspects of our Committee is chaired by Nikki Zamblera, 100% operations.
During the 2006 07 the HR Director.
During the year its financial year the Company has activities have been extended to Recycled carrier bags used in all stores.
placed particular focus on encompass all departments, from ameliorating the impact of its product to stores.
The Company business on the environment.
The appointed a head of corporate Company also continues to recognise responsibility in April 2007. the importance of responsible sourcing, its community activities, Reducing the environmental impact its health and safety programme The Company has implemented a and relations with employees and number of new corporate responsibility customers.
This report gives details programmes in 2006 07. of the Companys activities and plans in all these areas and sets out the Companys environmental and sourcing goals.
Left: New stores, such as Exeter, are committed to using 50% of energy from wind and hydroelectric sources.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 19 Section 2 Business review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The environmentally friendly gift of choice Our green edition giftcard is made from chlorine-free PETG material.
All our paper carriers and presentation wallets use vegetable based inks, are made of sustainable source stock and are 100% recyclable.
Right: All 160 Debenhams Help the environment by reloading, reusing and recycling our green edition giftcard.
foodservice outlets now serve TERMS AND CONDITIONS For full terms and conditions please see card carrier or visit www.
Debenhams Giftcards can only be redeemed for merchandise in Douwe Egberts Good Origins the original country of purchase: UK in store and online, Republic of Ireland in store only.
This card cannot be exchanged for cash or vouchers, or to purchase financial or travel services.
No change will be given but the balance may be applied to future purchases.
In the event of 24 months consecutive non-use, the card will expire and any balance will be deducted.
Giftcard balances can be checked in store, online at www.
Choose a charity edition giftcard and help support a worthy cause Just load or top up one of our charity edition giftcards and Debenhams will donate 2% of the value to charity on your behalf.
106209 Above: The new green edition giftcard launched in July this year.
In June 2007, 100 per cent recycled and work, as well as providing post-consumer waste carrier bags assurance that the coffee beans are were introduced into all stores.
derived from 100 per cent sustainable The Company had already been using sources.
100 per cent recycled carrier bags for the Megaday events.
A message from Nigel Palmer, the Retail Operations Director, was sent In July 2007 the Green Edition to all store employees in November Giftcard, the first on the high street, 2006, headed Ways to save money was launched by Debenhams and the environment, with a target Financial Services.
The card is made of reducing the amount of energy from 100 per cent recycled content used: on-target performance earns and is also chlorine free.
a top-up to the stores prize fund.
Next Spring, to help customers The Company has appointed a minimise their impact on the dedicated energy manager.
The 8,700 environment, the Company is Company is outperforming the tonnes launching a 30 degree wash care targets set in the store energy savings initiative on all appropriate apparel plan and has saved over 8,700 tonnes The store energy savings plan and textile products.
Efficiency measures include has out-performed the target 2 set for CO saved.
2 reviewing timings for lights, escalators In February 2007 Debenhams and air conditioning and reducing introduced Fair Trade cotton into overnight shifts.
The Company has also developed more eco-friendly All new stores now have at least packaging in lingerie, by introducing 50 per cent of their energy from 20 per cent recycled content to the renewable sources.
Compared to old collar boards of bra packs: this Debenhams stores, the recently initiative is being pursued across opened Llandudno store is more other packaging developments.
energy efficient by some 25 per cent.
This has mainly been achieved Debenhams 160 restaurants and through the use of diffusion heating cafes now stock Douwe Egberts and cooling systems, as opposed to Good Origin coffee.
Every cup of standard forced air ventilation, and Good Origin coffee can be traced lower power but higher intensity back to the farm where it was grown lighting units.
and has been certified by Utz Kapeh, a global non-governmental Within its distribution operations, the organisation.
This organisation assists Brackmills distribution centre has farmers to protect their workers and been re-lamped.
This has involved the environment in which they live the replacement of all eight-foot Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 20 Section 2 Business review fluorescent tubes with low energy tubes and high intensity reflectors.
Each aisle is also equipped with two PIR sensors, ensuring that the lights are on only when people are working in that aisle.
As a result of the commitment from in-store logistics and head office to reduce energy consumption, the Company has been accredited by the Energy Institute under the Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
The efficiency of the Companys logistics fleet, operated by DHL, has 9% improved compared to last year by nearly 9 per cent.
This reduced CO Improvement in efficiency 2 of logistics fleet.
emissions in the year by 8,800 tonnes.
The Companys print department has been audited by SGS and has been recommended for accreditation to use FSC and PEFC paper to produce certified printed material.
One of the major contributors to increases in CO levels in the atmosphere is fide- 2 forestation.
FSC and PEFC relate to the timber content of papers used.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 21 Section 2 Business review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Either logo appearing on printed matter Supplier selection and monitoring provides assurance that the timber Debenhams remains committed to content of the paper used is sourced its approach to sourcing through from a legal and sustainable source.
reputable suppliers who show the same commitment to ethical trade as the A head office recycling trial, replacing Company.
The Company has completed most individual bins with recycling its review of suppliers and factories.
All facilities for paper and mixed dry waste new factories are required to submit a like newspapers, card, plastic bottles etc, factory information pack covering both has been successful and is currently the social and technical aspects of the being rolled out to all head office floors.
The Company then monitors its This will allow as much waste as suppliers and the standards in their possible to be diverted from landfill.
factories on an ongoing basis in two ways, through an independent audit The Companys plans for 2008 to programme and through assessments continue its work on reducing the by Debenhams own employees and impact of its business on the representatives.
Debenhams audit environment and tackling the effects programme is based on two-day audits of climate change include: and more focused one-day gap analysis audits, carried out by independent Reducing the mix of own-bought auditors.
products currently transported by air by at least 10 per cent.
Debenhams accepts social audit reports completed for other retailers and in Planning to convert transhipment support of this position the Company from port of own-bought product joined the Supplier Ethical Data sea freight standard containers from Exchange SEDEX at the end of 2006. road to rail.
The Company also encourages its suppliers and factories to join so that Reducing the carbon footprint by the number of duplicate audits can be -30% 30 per cent of each new store, in reduced and focus placed on delivering addition to each store obtaining the corrective action plans.
Planned reduction in carbon footprint of new stores in 2008.
50 per cent of its energy from green sources.
Debenhams continues to support fully its commitments to the Ethical Trade Targeting head office and Initiative ETI.
The Company is distribution centres to divert 25 per involved in the Purchasing Practices cent and100 per cent respectively working group where, in collaboration of their waste away from landfill.
with another major high street retailer, the impact of joint purchasing practices Doubling the amount of waste in two Chinese factories is being diverted from landfill to 50 per cent evaluated.
The Company is also active for all our stores and aiming to make in the China Project Group and its subthis 100 per cent wherever possible.
group the Decent Work group.
Through its ETI engagement the Company has Increasing lighting energy efficiency continued the joint remediation in the Lodge Farm distribution programme in northern China and is at centre following the Brackmills the forefront of the effective auditing re-lamping project.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 22 Section 2 Business review Debenhams products Safer chemicals Debenhams has Debenhams operates within a policy evaluated the chemicals used in its framework in relation to the composition products.
Certain chemicals have of its products including: been banned.
A policy has been established in relation to the use of Animal testing Debenhams does other chemicals, covering ownnot sell any products or product bought merchandise, packaging and ingredients that have been tested equipment on which product is on animals.
Following its chemical evaluation, the Company Leathers, hides and furs also stipulates safer alternative Debenhams does not allow its product constituents to be used products to use any snake, crocodile, by suppliers.
Debenhams has been alligator or endangered species.
All participating, with the BRC Product the leather used is a by-product of Stewardship Group and Acona, in the food industry and the Company maintaining records and developing supports the humane treatment best practice for implementing its of animals throughout the supply safer chemicals policy.
Debenhams does not allow the use of real fur in any of its Environmental and sourcing goals products.
In relation to those aspects of its operations which affect the environment, Sustainable timber sources only and its sourcing practices, Debenhams timber from sustainable sources is has established goals as follows: used and the Company requires its suppliers to keep records so that this Climate change can be verified.
Debenhams believes it should be carbon neutral and the next step Genetically modified organisms the towards that goal is driving carbon Company requires all its products to efficiency, continuing to utilise new be GMO free.
This is particularly evident in its new and refurbished stores and Conflict diamonds rough diamonds distribution centres.
sourced for Debenhams production must have been procured and Waste certified in compliance with the Debenhams goals are not to send any of Kimberley Process and finished the waste it generates to landfill and to diamonds must have been purchased help its customers minimise the impact from legitimate sources, not involved of its products and packaging on the in funding conflict, in compliance environment.
Responsible sourcing The Company goal is to increase substantially its Fair Trade and organic product ranges in the short to medium term.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 23 Section 2 Business review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Debenhams in the community to Everyman.
In addition, Debenhams Debenhams has always fostered links worked with Calvin Klein to create a with its local community.
A new special Everyman trunk, which includes initiative for 2006 07 has been the work the charitys colours with a signature with Business in the Community and orange waistband.
This trunk is available Scottish Business in the Community to all year round and 50 pence from every offer store management teams the pair sold is donated to Everyman.
opportunity to become involved on a local project.
We hope this will build Debenhams staff continue to show into a long-term partnership.
For their support for charitable giving with example, part of the Companys new nearly 1,000 staff donating directly to store opening programme now includes charity from their salaries through the a team building event for the new store Debenhams Give As You Earn scheme.
management team that benefits local The Companys stores have also been people and the local community.
The active in raising funds for the Retail first BiTC local activity was carried out Trust through local store-sponsored by the Altrincham team the new Desire initiatives.
by Debenhams store in Altrincham opened in May 2007 who spent a day Employees working alongside community volunteers Debenhams is committed to supporting clearing woods and a play area in an all employees in their balance between area of economic and social deprivation.
Depending on Over 50 children also attended.
Another the area and role in which they work, example was the Team Day, organised the Company offers various flexible by the new Desire Silverburn store team, contracts to suit their individual needs.
who in conjunction with the Aberlour Trust regenerated the front gardens Debenhams recognises that there may and car park of the Pollok church be times when an employee needs to community hall used by the local take time off work or change their community including the stroke pattern of working due to personal 203,000 and pensioners clubs.
There are a number of policies in place to support employees through Raised for the Breast Cancer Campaign in past year.
Debenhams Santa arrival promotion, such events, including parental, maternity, with Santa arriving by fire engine in paternity and adoption leave, flexible most stores, was a great success at working and a career break scheme.
Christmas, raising 55,000 for the Fire Services National Benevolent Fund.
All employees also have free access to The campaign for the Christmas ahead the Retail Trust Helpline.
The helpline, is a Santa arrival event in conjunction provided by the Retail Trust charity, with the NSPCC: for every 3 visit to provides employees with independent Santa 1 will be donated to the NSPCC.
advice and support on a wide range of topics, both personal and work related.
The Companys commitment to the Breast Cancer Campaign continued The opportunity for all employees to with the campaign this year raising learn and develop is a crucial factor in 203,000.
Over several years the Companys future success.
The retail Debenhams has raised 1.1 million environment is fast moving and it is for the campaign.
important that all employees have a flexible range of skills, both from a Debenhams joined forces with Calvin personal perspective and for the future Klein to help support Everyman and the success of the Company.
Through fight against Testicular Cancer.
Between offering a wide mix of training courses 27 May and 18 June, Debenhams and and programmes, Debenhams Calvin Klein donated 50 pence from encourages individuals to develop, each sale of Calvin Klein underwear to expand their skills and to reach Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 24 Section 2 Business review Below: The Breast Cancer Campaign in October 2007 aims to add a further 250,000 to the 1.1 million total achieved to date.
Above: Nigel Palmer and Councillor Roy Davies of Luton Borough Council re-launch our partnership on health and safety policy and procedure.
Comprehensive Centre Plus and the Skill Sector Council competency-based training on a range of measures designed to programmes are offered to provide clear improve the employability skills of paths for progression for those wishing people looking for work.
Whilst some to pursue a career in all fields within the support has been available at a local Company.
A dedicated learning and level, for example training on interview development team works closely with techniques, through this national stores and head office to ensure that initiative Debenhams can maximise the potential and aspirations are maximised.
In addition, Debenhams has become more closely involved in skills Disability awareness development for the retail sector and in At the beginning of the 2006 07 June 2006 Nikki Zamblera, HR Director, financial year Debenhams completed was appointed Vice Chairman of the works required in order to make Skillsmart Retail, the government Skills accessible the mezzanine floors in all Sector Council for the industry.
its stores in this country.
The Company believes that it is at the forefront The Company provides equality of of UK retailers in this area.
Through the equal opportunities policy it is In addition to this work on physical committed to creating an environment accessibility in stores, in 2006 07 the that offers all employees the chance to Company has worked closely with use their skills and talents.
This means the Disability Rights Commission.
a workplace where individuals are Disability awareness has become a key treated fairly, regardless of age, colour, component of the store employee disability, gender, race, sexual induction programme.
A new Company orientation, hours of work, marital induction course and DVD entitled status or religious belief and where First impressions on customer care for policies such as recruitment, training disabled people, which also highlights and career opportunities are based Debenhams commitment to welcome around objective criteria.
applications for employment from disabled people, has been produced.
Debenhams seeks to recruit the best A disability awareness week, run in people from a wide pool of talent and May 2007, was a success and will now attract and retain a diverse workforce become an annual event in the retail which reflects the communities in which calendar.
In addition over the last few it trades.
In July 2007 the Company months the Company has revised its announced its support of the Local equal opportunities policies and created Employment Partnership initiative, thus a disability champion in the HR team.
formalising its involvement with Job Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 25 Section 2 Business review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Company continues to develop its course.
All employees receive basic website to improve accessibility and health and safety training on induction.
one of the Debenhams Direct team has now been given specific responsibility All stores have a nominated health for this area.
and safety representative who is a member of the store health and safety The Company provides information committee.
Revised procedures for the on accessibility matters on the conduct of and attendance at store direct enquiries website health and safety meetings have been www.
The minutes of store meetings details such as: are displayed locally and circulated to the Environmental Health and Safety Designated parking spaces Manager for review.
Location of accessible entrances Passenger lift facilities Debenhams employs an environmental 29 stores Accessible restaurant facilities health and safety manager, a food Location of accessible toilet quality assurance manager and product Received the highest accolade provision technologists to manage the application available from local authorities in Availability and detail of the personal of policies and procedures with regard to recognition of high food quality shopper services health and safety, food and product and safety standards.
Collect-by-car arrangements safety and quality.
In relevant Details of accessible customer circumstances Debenhams appoints collection points consultants to advise on specific safetyrelated areas.
Health and safety The Executive Health and Safety Debenhams has a Lead Authority Committee meets on a quarterly basis Partnership with Luton Borough Council, to review major health and safety which considers and comments matters.
The meetings are chaired by on Debenhams policies and procedure Nigel Palmer, Retail Operations Director, and act as a focal point for contact and attended by representatives from from other local authorities on health training, food services, store and safety matters.
Nigel Palmer development, internal audit, insurance, and Councillor Roy Davies of Luton building services and head office Borough Council met in the Luton facilities.
The minutes of the meetings store to re-launch the partnership in are circulated via the Company intranet September 2006. to all areas of the business and are considered as part of each stores On matters of food safety and trading own health and safety meetings.
standards, Debenhams has a Additional interim meetings, again partnership with Westminster City chaired by Nigel Palmer, are held Council which, throughout 2006 07, quarterly to discuss store-specific issues provided guidance on the development and are attended by personnel relevant and implementation of the Safer Food to the topics under discussion.
Safer Business procedures adopted by Debenhams Foodservices division.
The store managers are responsible During the course of the year 29 stores for health and safety in their stores.
have received the highest accolade On a day-to-day basis this is managed available from local authorities in through the Selling Support Manager recognition of the high food quality and and Technical Services Manager.
In head safety standards maintained.
office responsibility lies with the Facilities Manager.
Certain employees Reviews of store health and safety receive in-house training on risk performance are undertaken by the risk assessment and are encouraged to take management team as part of the the supervising health and safety internal audit process.
All stores receive Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 26 Section 2 Business review a review every two years with high-risk policy and procedure to ensure it was stores reviewed on an annual basis.
The relevant and applicable to that country.
outcome and remedial actions required following a risk management inspection During 2006 07, Debenhams has are followed up by the Store Manager, concluded a survey of all its retail and Sales Director and the risk management head office premises for asbestos, team.
implemented an asbestos management plan and undertaken any necessary During 2006 07, software has been remediation works.
introduced to improve task management and performance.
Further improvements To compliment the existing fire risk are expected in the forthcoming year assessment procedures, an external with the introduction of software to consultant has been appointed to manage maintenance tasks and the prepare a hazard plan and risk visibility of statutory certification.
assessment in stores with complex fire engineering.
Debenhams has worked closely with its major service providers to improve Debenhams records and reviews its health and safety performance.
performance in relation to the number Particularly work has been done in and nature of the accidents reportable 2006 07 with DHL, the logistics partner, to the enforcing authority.
The number and with the contract cleaners.
of reportable accidents to staff and customers are set out below and, A review of the Debenhams health and despite the increasing size of the safety policy and procedures manual Debenhams store base and therefore was conducted during the year with the the consequential rise in footfall into aim of making documentation more our stores, the statistics continue to accessible and the risk assessment demonstrate an encouragingly low process more relevant to individual level of major accidents and incidents store arrangements.
The acquisition to both customers and employees, of the new stores in the Republic of with a substantial improvement in Ireland also necessitated a review of the 2006 07 financial year.
Reportable accidents to staff and customers 140 120 36 100 29 17 80 24 10 60 89 84 81 40 64 61 20 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Sta C ustomers Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 27 Section 2 Business review Number of people
