p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 12 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 12 Corporate and social responsibility Left: Dignitys chosen charity of the year 2008 is Help the Hospices.
Centre: Mason & Gerald Martin Funeral Directors Choir of the Year competition winners, Eldon Grove Primary School.
Right: Dignity issued all locations with its Recycling Mission Statement, reinforcing its commitment to the environment.
Introduction Supporting charities T Thank yo you u The Group is committed to integrating corporate and social As part of our commitment to local communities, staff responsibility into all areas of the business.
We recognise also raise thousands of pounds every year for national and the importance of balancing the needs of our customers, local charities of their choosing.
our shareholders, our employees and the communities in which we work.
This is central to the service we provide At the beginning of March 2007, we presented a cheque to our clients and is reected in our business policies to World Vision for 50,000.
This marked the end of and procedures.
The Group also believes in creating our successful national charity campaign to support the appropriate culture for our staff, who are the most communities in Sri Lanka, affected by the 2005 Boxing important asset of the business.
We aim to achieve our Day Tsunami.
business objectives in a caring and responsible manner recognising the economic, social and environmental Following the success of the Tsunami Appeal, the impact of our activities.
opportunity to run another annual charity campaign was put to Dignity employees.
Three staff favourites were Richard Portman, the Corporate Services Director, is identied for the mantle of Charity of the Year: British the Board member responsible for corporate and social Heart Foundation: Guide Dogs for the Blind and Help the responsibility.
It is his responsibility to identify key impacts Hospices, the final selection was put to a staff ballot.
and report to the Board on such matters.
Nearly 1,000 staff took part in the ballot and 43 per cent In our communities of those responding voted for Help the Hospices as our Making a difference to the local communities we Charity of the Year 2008. serve is at the heart of everything we do.
Dignity staff are extremely committed to this ethos and support hundreds Our four charity fairground organs are provided for of local activities every year.
From organising fundraising use by local charities.
In 2007 the four organs helped to events for national charities to helping out at local church raise over 130,000 during the year for a variety of good ftes, our staff give a large amount of their time to help causes, church halls and community centres, hospices for good causes and charities.
children and adults, care homes and national charity partners.
This is the highest annual total amount ever By listening to and understanding the needs of local raised by the charity organs.
communities our staff are able to provide help where it is really needed.
Environment As in previous years, our business continues to For example, Zealley Funeral Service in Newton Abbott, have a low environmental impact and its activities are Devon provides ofce space at no charge to their local not expected to give rise to any significant environmental CRUSE Bereavement counselling charity providing a risk over the next 12 months.
valuable service to the local community and a useful resource to the charity.
Blackburns Funeral Service Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we of Broadstairs, Kent arranged a summer outing for all live is an important concern for the Group.
All areas residents of a local nursing home, enjoying sh and of the business operate in accordance with the Groups chips at the seaside.
We recognise the impact of our operations on the environment and our aim is to reduce In Scotland, branches came together to raise over 8,000 this impact and to operate in an environmentally at a charity dinner and dance.
Daredevils from E F Edwards responsible manner.
of Erdington in Birmingham raised 250 for The Stroke Association by abseiling 125ft down the side of Good Hope At our cofn manufacturing facility in East Yorkshire, all Hospital in Sutton Coldeld.
wood waste from the manufacture of cofns is used to heat the factory.
A significant and increasing proportion At Dignity, we believe in supporting our staff every step of packaging which cofns are packed in for transit to our of the way and provide advice and support for those who funeral locations is now returned to the factory for re-use.
want to give something back to their local community.
As this is done when the next delivery is made, there is no increase in the use of vehicles or emissions to achieve this.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 13 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13 Recognising our role and responsibilities We are committed to achieving our strategic objectives and integrating corporate and social responsibility into all areas of our business.
We recognise the importance of balancing the needs of our customers, our shareholders, our employees and the communities in which we work.
We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner recognising the economic, social and environmental impact of our activities.
Throughout the year our staff participate in many fundraising activities, raising thousands of pounds for national and local charities.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 14 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 14 Corporate and social responsibility Left: Londons Air Ambulance receives a donation from the North East London community group.
Centre: Trekking in Iceland to raise funds for continued local hospice care.
Right: Dignity uses various materials and paper with FSC accreditations.
All our raw materials are sourced from well-managed embalmers and the vaccination programme.
Their roles and sustainable sources, the majority of whom have Forest will be broadened in 2008 to include all health and safety Stewardship Council FSC accreditation.
All promotional matters thus strengthening the overall team in this area.
literature produced and despatched by the pre-arranged funeral plan division is printed on paper with FSC Mixed Supporting our staff Sources accreditation.
Our employees are critical in the continued success of the Group.
We are committed to high standards of At our head ofce in Sutton Coldeld paper and card employment practice and aim to encourage and develop recycling policies have been successfully introduced, successful employees.
leading to the introduction of can and bottle recycling on the premises thus cutting waste by over half.
The Group provides direct support to employees through both in-house training and external training courses.
Such A recycling mission statement has been developed external training includes both relevant job training and and will be rolled out to all locations in 2008. tutoring for professional qualications.
These professional qualications include the National Association of Funeral The Group and its employees undertake to act whenever Directors NAFD Diploma and Membership of the British necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current Institute of Embalmers BIE.
In addition, the Group has environmental legislation and continue to review the three members of staff who are qualied to act as tutors policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste for the NAFD Diploma and two members of staff who are generated is properly disposed of in accordance with accredited BIE tutor.
current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste wherever practical.
Furthermore, the Group supported staff development and welfare through its Welfare Trust.
The Welfare Trust provides Health and Safety funds for staff for professional training and hardship grants.
Effective heath and safety management is critical The Trust has approximately 2.1 million of funds available to the Group and is a key priority of the Directors.
operations are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as far as is reasonably practical, the health, The Group publishes a quarterly in-house magazine safety and welfare of all of our employees and all persons Dignity Express which is supplemented by monthly who may be attending our premises.
news bulletins to keep all employees informed of what is happening in the Group.
Copies of Dignity Express are The Group is committed to the prevention of accidents further provided to employees who have retired from the and regularly reviews and updates procedures and training Group.
In addition, the Group has developed a dedicated to ensure that staff minimise any risks associated with employee website which contains news, useful information their tasks.
During 2007, we produced and issued policies and background on the Group.
on smoking, pregnancy and distance driving to ensure that our employees understood their responsibilities and to keep them safe.
This adds to the range of policies the Group has already created covering health and safety.
For our staff involved in the preparation of the deceased, a training and assessment programme has been developed and rolled out during the period.
By the end of 2007, the majority of embalmers had been successfully assessed and further training and assessment is continuing.
The Group has a full time dedicated Health and Safety Manager who is supported by a network of co-ordinators who are based and work in all areas of the business.
In addition there are two other full time members of staff Above: Dignity Express is a quarterly newsletter for all Dignity staff, in the health and safety team.
They are both qualied highlighting our news and communicating new initiatives.
embalmers and have conducted the assessment of
