Corporate social responsibility report steps with a rollout to a small learner sample, and plans OVERVIEW are underway to offer the benefits of the Saturday As our global business grows, our Corporate Social School to a wider pool of learners, using technology to Responsibility initiatives are keeping pace.
Across the give them access to tutorials, research material and globe, Dimension Data is engaged in diverse projects online libraries through video feeds.
which, despite regional differences, align to our culture In the past year, we invested $235,000 in the and deliver on our corporate values of integrity, construction of classrooms and libraries for teamwork, personal commitment and professional underprivileged schools.
The region continues to excellence.
Our aim is for our Corporate Social support the CIDA City Campus, where our Internet Responsibility initiatives, supported by our management Solutions division provides technology infrastructure and and people around the world, to be executed with the assistance with administration, the presentation of same drive, energy and professional values we deliver in lectures, as well as the compilation of the IT curriculum the execution of our business.
As environmental issues gain prominence, we face a In keeping with our commitment to environmental growing number of requests from our clients around responsibility, we have rolled out a power and utility the world to develop and implement more saving system at our head office at the Campus in environmentally friendly IT solutions.
This enables motion and infrared consume less power and generate a smaller carbon sensors to control the lights in all office, open plan and footprint are particularly important to large enterprises basement areas.
When there is no movement, the light and governments.
We are working on ways to assist sensor turns off the lights it controls.
In addition, we our clients with this challenge as well as incorporate focus on water conservation and recycling projects to more environmentally friendly processes into our own minimise our environmental impact at the Campus.
In Australia, Dimension Data focuses on children, We are conscious that each country within which we education and the environment, areas chosen by operate has a diverse range of social issues relevant to employees when the regions CSR programme, Heads their own societies and environments.
Our philosophy is Hearts and Hands, was established in 2004.
This year, to drive initiatives which are most relevant to the unique Dimension Data in Australia has achieved success with communities and social and economic circumstances in the IT Fund for Kids, the Arwarbukarl Cultural Resource these countries.
Association, Hands On Learning, and Oz GREEN.
We continue to promote the Workplace Giving Program HIGHLIGHTS which raised over $60,000 in the past financial year.
In In Africa, the Group leverages education and technology addition, $380,000 was raised for the IT Fund for Kids, to affect change and upliftment.
The regions flagship and we matched employees private donations to the initiative, the Dimension Data Saturday School, equips sum of a further $27,000.
learners with leadership, entrepreneurial and other vital In an exciting marriage of technology and corporate skills which not only uplift individual competencies, but social responsibility, Dimension Data in Australia also contribute to the growing economy.
Twelve partner partnered with Microsoft to trial Microsoft Office schools are involved, sending between 900 and 1,500 SharePoint Server 2007 with the Arwarbukarl Cultural students to participate in the programme every week.
ACRA was founded to Dimension Data employees volunteer to mentor and preserve and revive the Awabakal language, and the teach the students.
The Saturday School Bursary programme is currently being extended to more than Programme also sponsors three exceptional students 250 indigenous languages.
Dimension Data in Australia from the programme, paying their living and tuition fees provided its expertise to develop the application for while they attend the university of their choice.
ACRA to store words, images and sounds.
We were Because of the outstanding success of our Saturday recognised for this project and other CSR achievements School programme, we have taken the step of by Microsoft: nominated as one of three finalists for introducing an e-Learning Management System into Citizenship Partner of the Year in 2007: and received a government schools.
Dimension Datas vision is to reach Microsoft Worldwide Partner Program award for 40,000 learners through the e-Learning Management demonstrating the use of technology to empower and System by 2015.
The region has already taken the first deliver value in a practical and effective way.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 39 Corporate social responsibility report continued Through employee involvement in Living Communities, For example, Carecraft China undertook extensive a programme where employees learn to practise sponsorship and volunteer work for WorldVision sustainable environmental procedures, employees sponsored schools in Ping Quan, Hebei Province.
This is one of the poorest regions in China, with low average were able to significantly reduce their individual income and a compelling need for upliftment and further environmental footprints.
Our Chinese office provided full year Across Europe, we support a range of diverse local scholarships for 15 junior high school students in Ping causes.
For example, Luxembourg has a paper Quan, and also committed to providing sports facilities recycling initiative and donates to Unicef.
We have also sponsored basic supports Dynamo, an organisation which looks after stationery requirements for another school in the region.
street children and vulnerable youngsters.
The United Our Mentorship Programme enables employees to Kingdom supports havens for women and children who support and encourage students, and we extend are victims of domestic abuse.
Employees in the UK support to their teachers too, by means of a computer office are also actively encouraged to contribute training centre set up by our partner WorldVision, where individually to charitable activities.
we provide the IT training.
Other examples include the Philippines, where we donated money to three relief In North America, our CSR programme is called organisations involved in relief work following Typhoon Network of Hope.
In the past 12 months, Dimension Reming, and Malaysia where we assisted with material Data in America increased the number of regional relief for flood victims in Muar, Johor.
initiatives it participates in, as well as facilitating employee contributions to two charities, City Year and United Way, through payroll deductions.
In addition, each employee was allocated eight hours time off for the year to volunteer for worthwhile projects.
The aim of Network of Hope is to support employees as they offer their time and skills to the betterment of their communities.
There is a corporate team as well as local field teams, and each office has a designated person who initiates opportunities for which employees may volunteer.
These co-ordinators liase with the United Way and City Year, as well as many regional charities.
Examples of activities undertaken include renovation and upgrading of two residential homes for mentally and physically handicapped people: assisting at the Mecklenburg County Special Olympics: the renovation of Apostles House, a homeless shelter in New York: volunteer work at the Miracle Kitchen, which is run by the Salvation Army: donations of used cell phones to womens shelters: collection of food and donations to the Second Harvest Food Bank: and sponsorship of runners who took part in the Susan G Komen Triangle Race for the Cure, which raised money for cancer research.
Asias CSR programme is called Carecraft.
All our charitable efforts in the region are co-ordinated and directed under the Carecraft banner.
Highlights of the past 12 months include volunteer work with WorldVision, schools, kindergartens and educational projects, as well as disaster relief work in partnership with Unicef and the Red Cross.
