Business review continued Corporate and social responsibility review Investor relations Further positive news on the future for Drax is committed to delivering co-ring came with the publication of CSR and our business shareholder value.
We communicate the Energy White Paper in May 2007, We operate our business within a our results and prospects to our which proposed a fundamental reform framework of increasingly stringent shareholders in an accurate and of the Renewables Obligation RO.
and challenging legislative and timely manner using a variety of The proposal to band the RO will place regulatory requirements.
In addition to the Annual the various renewables technologies however, mindful of the still tougher General Meeting, we communicate into bands according to their state of expectations held by our wider through our Annual Report and development, and reward each band stakeholder group.
For us, corporate Accounts, Half Year Report and with differing fractions or multiples of and social responsibility is about Trading Updates.
The proposal is consistent with achieving a balance between the also have the obligation to provide the representations we made during commercial and regulatory rigours Interim Management Statements.
the Energy Review and we believe of the competitive sector within which All of these documents are made that it has the potential to deliver we operate and our commitment to available on our website at a mechanism that is fair to all forms our stakeholders.
significant of renewables and enable co-ring The Board has ultimate control of matters relating to trading and the to make a meaningful contribution policies in respect of both the wider development of the business are to targets for reducing carbon dioxide corporate and social responsibility disseminated to the market by way CO2 emissions.
Throughout 2007, and in relation to environmental of announcements via a regulatory we continued to work with the and health and safety matters.
information service and those Government on the detail of the The Boards policies are implemented announcements appear as soon proposals to ensure appropriate by dedicated specialists who make as practicable on our website.
sure effective processes and Face-to-face meetings are held with Locally, we have continued to engage procedures are in place to assure our major institutional shareholders with parish, town, district and county compliance and to identify and to to assist them in understanding councillors and ofcers, with the report on risks and opportunities.
the information announced to the intention of keeping them up to As a responsible business, we continue market and to ensure that the date with our business issues to invest, not only to comply with the Board is aware of investors views and developments.
Our regular environmental and health and safety and concerns.
In 2007, a formal communication channel with these requirements, but, where practicable, meeting programme was delivered and other local opinion formers takes to go further.
Throughout 2007, in the UK, US and Europe after each the form of an annual consultative we maintained our presence in the of the Preliminary and Interim meeting, and three meetings each FTSE4Good Index Series, which is Results announcements.
To aid our year with our local parish and town designed to measure the performance communication with our private councillors.
This year, in addition of companies that meet globally investors, during 2007 we developed to these formal meetings, we held recognised corporate responsibility further the investor section of our meetings with councillors, opinion standards and facilitate investment website improving the information formers and the local press, and in those companies.
public drop-in sessions to disseminate information concerning our plans Engaging with our stakeholders External relations for developing our co-ring facility Like many businesses, our stakeholders Following on from our public affairs at the Drax site and the results, are diverse and include: our shareholders: focus in 2006, we maintained our specically from environmental employees: customers: suppliers: engagement with the Government on monitoring, of our coal petcoke trial.
the local community: Government: issues arising from the Energy Review, non-governmental organisations: including the regulations governing No political donations were made opinion formers: and the media.
in the UK or elsewhere during 2007, Communication with all our stakeholders On 1 April 2007, we were pleased to and the Companys contact with those is considered to be an essential part see an amendment to the renewables active in the political arena has been of our business and we aim to be regime come into effect which and will continue to be aimed solely open and transparent in all that removed the caps and constraints at the promotion of the Companys we do.
We full our communication in relation to energy crop co-ring.
commitments through an investor Importantly this removed the relations programme and a wideregulatory barrier to accessing ranging external relations programme.
value from Renewable Obligations Certicates ROCs when co-ring energy crops.
24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Suppliers As in previous years, we encouraged local and national companies to bid for contracts to supply the many goods and services required by the Company.
In making purchases, we are mindful that some companies or indeed countries may have poor ethical standards or human rights issues.
Covering, as we do, a varied marketplace with a number of indirect manufacturers supporting the end product, it is impossible for us to be certain that we do not indirectly trade with certain companies or countries whose standards are poor.
However, we do not knowingly support or trade with such companies or countries and we remain alert to changing circumstances.
Tacklingclimate Caring for the environment Tackling climate change change.
We believe we have an important part to play in managing the transition of We believe we have an important part to play in the UK towards a low carbon economy.
We fully recognise the challenge managing the transition of the UK towards a low that we and other fossil fuel-red carbon economy, whilst delivering secure and reliable power stations face in tackling supplies of electricity.
carbon emissions and we have already committed to a CO2emissions reduction programme that will reduce our emissions by over three million tonnes or 15% by the end of 2011.
The focus of our programme is on co-ring and thermal efficiency improvement.
On co-ring, we have set ourselves the challenging target of producing 10% of our output from renewable biomass materials by the end of 2009, saving over two million tonnes of CO2 each year.
The single biggest challenge in meeting this target is sourcing the volume of biomass material required to produce one-tenth of our output, which is equivalent to the output from around 500 wind turbines.
During the year, we have worked with suppliers of biomass materials to build a strong supplier base and facilitate the development of a supply market for this renewable material.
25 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Corporate and social responsibility review continued With a focus on sustainability, In addition, we have been involved We freely discuss our environmental we have endeavoured to improve in research projects with industry performance and activities with our our understanding of the long-term partners which have the potential stakeholders and are sensitive to their environmental impacts of growing, for considerable savings in emissions views and concerns.
Amongst our staff, harvesting and transporting biomass of CO2.
We are also participating business partners and contractors materials.
As part of our drive to in Yorkshire Forwards initiative to we promote environmental awareness, promote sustainability throughout the examine the potential for carbon ensuring that they understand the biomass supply chain we have been capture and storage infrastructure environmental aspects of their activities, working with our biomass suppliers in the Yorkshire area.
that they act responsibly and are to incorporate sustainability criteria competent to undertake their duties.
Taking these initiatives forward, and into our supply contracts in advance others like them, is only possible within Over the last few years, UK industry of possible regulatory requirements.
a regulatory framework which is both has been moving towards Pollution This approach has been positively certain and predictable.
Given the right Prevention and Control PPC received and provides a solid platform framework, investment in clean coal regulation, which replaces the former for further development in this technologies which will put the UK Integrated Pollution Control IPC important area.
on a sure path to a low carbon future, and Waste Management legislation At the centre of our thermal efficiency whilst delivering reliable and secure and covers not just the discharges programme is the 100 million upgrade supplies of electricity, will be incentivised.
from site, but site issues such as of the high and low pressure turbines contamination, wastes, odour, noise, Environmental performance of each of our six generating units.
energy efficiency, risks, accidents and compliance The upgrade programme benefited and management systems.
The new We recognise our responsibilities from the early installation of one high legislation places greater focus on to society and the environment and pressure turbine module during our individual performance through we are committed to furthering the outage in the third quarter of the year, a requirement for staff competency.
environmental leadership position giving valuable engineering experience we hold in the coal-red sector.
In 2004, we applied for a PPC permit ahead of the double outage in 2008 Where practicable we work towards to replace the Waste Management during which two high pressure and reducing the environmental impacts licence for the ash disposal site.
six low pressure turbine modules will of our business, in line with our policy In 2006, we applied for a PPC permit be replaced.
to regard compliance with legislation for the main power station site On completion of the upgrade in 2011 as a minimum level of achievement.
to replace the IPC authorisation.
we will see an improvement in our Both of these permits were received We manage our environmental overall baseload efficiency of 5%, during 2007, and as a result we have compliance under an Environmental taking it towards 40%, and an annual commenced a programme of staff Management System EMS.
saving of one million tonnes of CO2.
re-training to reect the wider scope During the year our EMS was externally of the new regulations and procedures.
audited and we were successful in achieving re-certication to the international standard ISO 14001: 2004.
Emissions to air 1 1 C Carbon dio arbon dioxide xide k kg g k kW Wh h S Sulphur di ulphur dio oxide xide g g k kW Wh h Nit Nitr rogen o ogen oxid xides es g g k kW Wh h 2001 2.05 2001 2.63 2002 2.55 2002 1.78 2003 1.70 2003 2.49 2004 1.07 2004 2.36 2005 1.01 2005 2.30 2005 0.83 2006 2.12 2006 0.84 2006 0.78 2007 0.83 2007 0.77 2007 1.99 Notes: 1 CO2 EU ETS veried taking account of carbon neutral status of biomass 26 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Emissions to air Disposals to land Petcoke is derived from the The principal emissions from burning When coal is burnt, ash is left as petrochemical industry and is coal are CO2, sulphur dioxide SO2, a residue.
The ner particles of produced from oil, it contains higher nitrogen oxides NOX, and particulates ash, pulverised fuel ash PFA, levels of sulphur than coal but the dust.
Our generating units have are collected from the ue gas by FGD plant at Drax ensures that, all been retrotted with ue gas electrostatic precipitators: the heavier on average, at least 90% of the SO2 desulphurisation FGD equipment ash, furnace bottom ash FBA is removed before the gases created which removes, on average, at least falls to the bottom of the boiler.
during combustion are emitted into 90% of SO2 emissions before the ue The majority of ash is sold to the the atmosphere.
Because of this we gas is released via the chimney into construction industry with the have the capability to burn petcoke the atmosphere.
remainder sent for landll at the power within the permitted sulphur levels stations adjacent ash disposal site, set for the power station by the We maintain investment in our which over time has been developed Environment Agency.
emissions abatement equipment into farmland, woodland and wetland and consider this to be a high priority.
The combustion trial commenced in features providing a haven to many Our FGD plant already complies June 2005, although designed to last species of wildlife and birdlife.
with SO2 emissions limits to 2016 for 18 months the trial was extended and we are nearing completion of During 2007, we sold some 75% of by a further six months to allow a programme of retrotting all units our ash: our target is zero ash landll.
for some additional environmental with low NOX technology Boosted The construction of an ash rail monitoring.
A considerable amount Over Fire Air in line with the NOX loading facility will help us to improve of environmental data has been requirements of the Large Combustion our ash export capability through collected and analysed, where possible Plant Directive LCPD.
Currently five providing greater and more efficient using independent specialists.
In line of our six units have been retrotted access to construction markets with our policy on openness and with work underway to complete the around the country.
transparency all data have been remaining unit by mid-2008.
We pay landll tax on the PFA Discharges to water disposed of to the ash disposal site.
The results of the trial have provided Procedures are in place to ensure that Through the Landll Tax Credit conclusive evidence that there all discharges and drainage to water Scheme, we are able to claim a is no detectable impact on the are monitored and treated where tax credit against our donations environment through burning blends necessary to meet our discharge to recognised Environmental Bodies.
of coal and up to 15% petcoke at Drax.
There are a number We have worked with Groundwork We believe the results strongly support of sources of discharge and drainage Selby since 2001 on projects designed our case for full commercial burn of as part of the electricity generation to help mitigate the effects of landll coal petcoke blends across all six units.
process, including the cooling water upon our local community.
During Reduce, reuse and recycle used to cool the condensers, which as 2007, we contributed approximately In line with the new PPC regulations, part of the steam cycle condense 89,824 towards local communitywe have stepped up our focus on the steam to water after it leaves the based projects designed to bring about handling of wastes through embodying turbines and before returning to the sustainable environmental benets the philosophy of reduce, reuse and boilers.
The FGD process produces and contribute to the social and recycle.
During the year, a new recycling efuent water which is treated in economic regeneration of the area.
centre was constructed and the range a specially designed plant before it Alternative fuels of materials recycled was expanded.
is discharged to the river, and there To help maintain our vital role in Monitoring our performance showed is also drainage from the main plant, the UK economy and safeguard cost that an impressive 76% of all our coal plant and roads.
effective power production, our fuel wastes were recycled in 2007.
Water is abstracted mainly from strategy recognises the need to Our plan is to focus our efforts on the River Ouse and boiler feedwater sustain a ready supply of traditional the remaining 24%, with greater originates from two boreholes on site.
quality coal and how best to emphasis on ofce-based wastes.
Approximately half of the water is incorporate alternative fuels, returned to the River Ouse at a few including different fossil fuels and degrees warmer than the river water.
The choice of fuels has to be balanced with availability and exibility of supply.
The trial burn of petcoke, which concluded in June 2007, was an integral part of our strategy of developing alternative fuels.
It involved burning a blend of coal and up to 15% petcoke on one of our six generating units.
27 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Corporate and social responsibility review continued We commit to maintain and support a Throughout the year, we have met range of share plans which encourage regularly with the ofcials of the Our people all of our staff to build a personal stake recognised trades unions to address Our principles in the ownership of the business.
In the issues of mutual interest and to At Drax we believe that our people case of executive directors and senior maintain a positive and constructive are one of our key assets and all of staff this includes a commitment to industrial relations climate.
our practices and policies are designed own shares to a significant percentage A comprehensive pay benchmarking to maximise the contribution of of their annual salary.
exercise was conducted in the early our human resource to achieve our We commit to operate a suitable level part of the year in support of our business objectives.
Our core principles of occupational health services on annual pay review process, ensuring are underpinned by commitments to site to promote the well-being of all that accurate data was available for our staff.
our staff and to ensure a professional managers involved in the process.
We commit to comply with all relevant response to any and all emergency The use of the Share Incentive Plan legislation and regulations, and strive situations that occur.
We ensure was reviewed in the early part of to achieve best practice in the areas that our first aid response is the best the year and widened to provide the of employment practices, for example, that we can make it by training our opportunity for employees to purchase through the avoidance of any and all staff to the highest level we can.
Partnership shares which also attracted discriminatory practices, recruitment Our programmes an award of Matching shares at a and termination of employment, Over the past 12 months we have ratio of one Matching share for each and staff training and development.
introduced or maintained a number Partnership share purchased: this was We commit to working constructively of activities to support our human in addition to an award of Free shares.
with the recognised trades unions resources principles.
We have recruited All staff were eligible to participate and representing our staff, to ensure that a new head of human resources and the level of take up of the Partnership all parties are engaged and committed a senior occupational health nurse and Matching elements was significant to the Companys objectives, and that to strengthen the team supporting at 91%: the take up of the Free shares we maintain a positive industrial these activities.
Further details on relations climate which mitigates the the Companys share plans can be Through the recruitment of a further risk of disruption to the Companys found in the Remuneration Committee six young apprentices in September operations.
This includes our report on pages 46 to 53.
2007, we have continued to support commitment to be fair in the settlement our technical apprenticeship Draxs commitment to employee of any grievances or disputes.
The year also saw eight share participation received We commit to using a variety of apprentices from our first intake independent recognition at communication techniques, both after re-introducing the programme the ifsProShare Annual Awards one-way and two-way, to ensure complete their apprenticeships.
ceremony held on 20 November 2007, that all staff are kept fully informed We were especially pleased to see at which we won the award for the of developments in the Companys one of our second year apprentices Most Effective Communication of an operations.
The communication win the Empowers Apprentice of Employee Share Plan for companies methods include monthly team briefs the Year Award 2007 in the power with 0 to 1,000 employees.
to all staff, plant-wide meetings at least generation category.
six monthly on Company performance For the second year running, we have and major initiatives, written conducted a thorough 360 appraisal communications such as leaets and process for the management newsletters, e-mails, 360 feedback of the organisation and provided and employee opinion surveys.
detailed feedback to all participants.
We undertake to fully consult staff Our Company-wide staff appraisal on all changes that have a material process identied competency gaps impact on their employment.
which have been addressed through We commit to operating fair and nearly 2,000 separate training and transparent remuneration policies development events.
ifsProShare Annual Award winner which ensure that staff are paid an In addition, training and development appropriate rate for the work they of our staff has been taken further undertake, and that we compensate through the design of the first stage appropriately where staff work unsocial of a competency-based management hours to support our operations.
development programme to be implemented over the next 18 months to all those with supervisory responsibility for employees or contractors.
Phil White, Drax Group plc Assistant Company Secretary second-left receiving the award from Anthony Nelson, ifsProShare Chairman.
28 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Personal Safety Statistics 2004 2005 2006 2007 Fatality 000 1 Lost time accident 87 2 10 Restricted work accident 64 1 2 Medical treatment accident 511 3 First aid 182 140 127 267 1 RIDDOR reportable 66 2 13 Notes: 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations We continue to ensure that all our Attaining leading performance Spotlight on Safety is our policies and procedures are reviewed The lost time injury rate for 2007, implementation of the internationally to comply with legislative requirements was 0.34, compared to 0.08 in proven DuPont STOP programme.
and to move towards best practice.
2006, but against an increase of This behavioural safety programme During 2007, we developed a new service nearly one-third in the total hours coupled with the recently launched for employees to support the whistle worked.
Although this represents a Safety Kick-Off, start of shift safety blowing policy introduced in 2006, deterioration, the safety programmes briengs and Take-2 dynamic point enabling staff to log concerns implemented in the last few years of work risk assessment initiatives give condentially with an external agency.
are becoming well entrenched and us the framework we need for open The service was launched plant-wide are delivering sound performance and engagement between operatives and in January 2008. our safety record compares favourably supervisors to develop the defensive to that of our sector peers and behaviours which are a fundamental We will continue to ensure that international benchmarks.
component of the robust world-class we have the right complement of safety culture we aspire to create.
skills and experience to deliver our In March 2007, we were delighted to business objectives.
We will focus announce that the Companys Health Communicating the safety message on deriving mutual benefit from and Safety Management System Our Weekly Safety Bulletin brieng the employer employee relationship was certied to the internationally process provides a fast track for safety through a range of initiatives, recognised Occupational Health and communication to all those working including opinion surveys, appraisals, Safety standard OHSAS 18001.
Drax is on the site, through which we draw good lines of communication and amongst the first of the coal-red attention to specic safety issues above all we will aim to increase power stations in the country to hold and our performance record, and transparency in the relationship.
the standard, which is approved by recognise achievements.
In addition, Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
the safety representatives and Health and safety In addition to this, the Company management team members of Health and safety is at the heart of our was equally delighted to be awarded the Health and Safety Advisory corporate responsibility.
Protecting our the RoSPA Gold Award for the third Committee continue to play a vital employees, contractors and all visitors year running.
role in facilitating staff consultation from injury and promoting employee on health and safety issues.
well-being is fundamental to our Processes underpinning performance business philosophy.
We are committed The Production Integrity Management Our ongoing safety exchange to developing and maintaining a Systems programme launched during relationships with ScottishPowers positive health and safety culture the year will provide the platform the Longannet power station and E. ONs in which statutory requirements are business needs to deliver continuous Ratcliffe-on-Soar power station viewed as a minimum standard and improvement of business critical continue to provide new ideas and leading performance our goal.
systems which are fundamental to stimulation to drive our health and the safe and effective operation of safety improvement efforts forward.
Although we have made significant the power station.
progress in working together with our own staff and contractors on all aspects of health and safety, we were Accident frequency rate deeply saddened by the death of a civil works contractor following L Lo os st time inju t time injur ry y ra rat te e an incident at the power station 2004 0.42 site at the end of September 2007.
2005 0.35 The Company has given its full 2006 0.08 co-operation to the relevant authorities in their investigation of the incident.
2007 0.34 Although these investigations have T To ot tal al re rec co or rdable inju dable injury ry ra rat te e not yet concluded, no indication has been given to the Company that it 2004 0.99 will be prosecuted for any offence 2005 0.60 arising from the incident.
2006 0.17 2007 0.49 29 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Corporate and social responsibility review continued Each month the team meets to For the third year running, we ran consider requests received for a scheme to encourage and reward Caring for the community charitable donations and community good safety performance during the We are committed to being a good sponsorship and makes awards against planned outage periods.
Through the neighbour to our local community our criteria of furthering community, scheme 500 is donated for every and our caring for the community environmental and sporting interests.
seven days that goes by without an philosophy involves being part of injury requiring more than first aid local and regional communities.
An example of the good causes treatment, in total 7,500 was raised Our involvement takes the form of supported through the sponsorship during the two outages.
Employees sponsoring a variety of local charities team in 2007, is the Sherburn-in-Elmet and the outage contractor, Doosan and fund raising events, promoting Youth Drop-in, a scheme aimed at Babcock, were each asked to nominate our own campaigns which focus on the 1119 year-olds in the village.
The Dropcharities to receive a share of the total.
three themes of youth sport, education in is held every Friday evening and and the environment, and maintaining has proved hugely successful in In December 2007, Drax staff open communication channels and encouraging local youths to take responded to a request to raise money good working relationships with the part in a range of activities including for a very special and deserving cause.
arts and crafts, drama and music.
Marni Smyth, a 13 year-old girl who Our donation was put to good use lives with her family in a nearby village, Sponsorship in the community through the purchase of new arts was born with spinal muscular atrophy.
During 2007, we gave financial support and crafts materials.
Marni wakes every hour at night and of 121,108 in total across a range of has to call out to her parents to be charitable and non-charitable causes.
Drax also operates a for turned in her bed.
Through a variety Of that total, charitable donations matching scheme, under which we of initiatives we raised just under amounted to 73,754 2006: 45,872. match, for, any monies raised for 7,000 to purchase a special bed charity by employees.
During 2007, Some 12,000 of the total donations which can be programmed to alter the approximately 42,518 of the total were made under the direction of air pressure in the mattress and turn donations made were through our sponsorship team, across a range Marni in her sleep, which will mean this scheme.
of activities within a 20-mile radius an uninterrupted nights sleep for her of the power station.
30 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 A new visitor centre The new facility uses large format graphics, multimedia presentations and interactive models to explain the electricity generation process.
Thousand of visitors are welcomed to the power station every year.
During 2007, we played host to some 5,750 visitors from schools, colleges, business organisations and associations.
Other sponsorship activities included A total of 86 primary schools Visitors to Drax a 15,000 donation to the Selby Abbey across Yorkshire took part in the In October 2007, the Minister of State Restoration Appeal.
The donation, knock-out tournament organised by for Energy, Malcolm Wicks MP, ofcially used to sponsor two fundraising The Yorkshire County Cricket Club opened the new Drax Visitor Centre.
concerts, one of which was held in Yorkshire CCC in conjunction The Minister joined pupils from October 2007, and the second to be with The Yorkshire Cricket Board Dringhouses Primary School, York to held in July 2008, allows all proceeds and The Yorkshire Schools Cricket be part of the first group to tour the raised from the concerts to go to the Association.
The semi-nals and final new exhibition.
The new facility uses Appeal as the restoration work enters were played at Headingley Carnegie large format graphics, multimedia its seventh and final phase.
Stadium, the home of Yorkshire CCC presentations and interactive models and a long-standing venue for test to explain the electricity generation Education in the community matches and one-day internationals.
Visitors can also discover fun Our Cricket in the Community The trophy, crafted from recycled facts about the power station and its initiative launched in May 2006 has boiler tube from a Drax boiler, was pioneering environmental projects.
continued to prove popular with local presented to the winning school, schools.
We now boast four England Thousands of visitors are welcomed Wheatlands Primary School, and Wales Cricket Board ECB to the power station every year.
Redcar by Darren Gough, Yorkshire qualied coaches on our staff, who The appeal of discovering more about CCC captain and ex-England together with England ladies cricketer, how power is produced and the sheer international.
Katherine Brunt took cricket coaching scale of the site and its associated to schools in the local area as part Art in the Community, a new activities attracts schools and colleges of our support for education and to initiative designed to encourage and as well as business organisations and promote sports learning as part of develop art appreciation, was launched associations.
During 2007, we played the National Curriculum.
Primary and host to some 5,750 visitors.
secondary schools in the area were Strengthening our links with the invited to enter and have the chance game of cricket, we launched the to share in prize money totalling Drax Cup, the regions first-ever cricket over 2,500.
The prize money for competition for teams of girls and the winning artists was matched with boys under the age of nine.
31 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
