Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review The Groups overriding priority is safety at work.
DS Smith is committed to providing good sustainable Given the nature of the Groups operations, our returns for its investors while maintaining high standards primary CR focus is on safety and environmental of behaviour in all its business dealings.
With a worldwide workforce of over 11,000 overriding priority is safety at work and it also places people operating from over 100 sites, the Group also special emphasis on care for the environment.
places considerable importance on its dealings with its employees and local communities.
This review presents The Board considers risks to the Groups shortand information on these highest priority aspects of CR for long-term value arising from corporate responsibility the Group.
CR matters as part of its regular review of the key risks to the Groups operations.
It ensures that the Health and Safety Group has in place effective policies and systems Safety at work remains our top priority and its for managing any significant CR risks and it receives importance is reected in it being the first xed regular reports on performance.
The Group Chief agenda item at all main Board, executive committee Executive is the Director responsible for CR matters and divisional review meetings.
DS Smith is committed and he reports to the Board on these.
It is the to the protection and safety of its staff and others responsibility of the Divisional Chief Executives and affected by its operations.
Providing a safe workplace General Managers of the individual businesses to and ensuring safe working practices are not only communicate and to apply the policies, to ensure legal and ethical responsibilities for the Group but compliance and to review procedures, taking account are also essential factors in achieving our aims of of local legislation and potential risks.
Divisional Lost Time Accidents attracting and retaining a high quality and wellChief Executives are required annually to attest that Number of accidents resulting motivated workforce and in carrying out our the companies for which they are responsible have in lost time of one shift or more operations productively and cost-effectively.
complied with relevant Group and divisional human resources, health and safety and environment policies.
The Group places strong emphasis on communicating with our people about the importance of safety at work We have a clear set of principles, the Groups Key and the ways in which safety can be improved on our Corporate Values, which stipulate that all employees sites.
A Group-wide campaign was launched in autumn will at all times act ethically and with integrity, treat 2006, under the slogan think safe be safe!
aimed their colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect, work at further raising employees awareness of their 2005 2006 2007 safely and protect the environment.
The Key Corporate individual responsibilities for preventing accidents.
Our Values statement, which may be viewed on the Groups businesses have used the campaign as a platform for website, is underpinned by more detailed policies on Accident Frequency Rate implementing improvement programmes, linked to this health and safety, the environment and other relevant Number of accidents of all types core theme, which focus attention on particular types topics.
The Group has a workplace malpractice policy, per 100,000 hours worked of accidents that are most relevant to their operations.
under which employees may report in confidence concerns they have about any perceived wrongdoing Information on safety performance is reported to the within the Group on matters relating to safety, the Board quarterly.
In 2006 07, the continuing emphasis environment, unethical business conduct or breaches on safety throughout the Group was reected in an of company policies, the law or other regulations.
This 8% reduction in the number of accidents that resulted policy is reinforced by a condential Employee Concern in one shift or more of working time being lost and a Helpline and e-mail facility which is progressively being 2005 2006 2007 13% reduction in the accident frequency rate, which made available to our employees worldwide as local measures all accidents in proportion to the number legal and regulatory issues are resolved: to date it has of hours worked.
Regrettably, the accident severity Accident Severity Rate been extended to approximately 70% of our employees, rate, which measures the hours lost as a result of all Working hours lost as a result of located in nine countries.
Any concerns reported are accidents as a percentage of the total hours worked, accidents as a percentage of appropriately investigated.
increased by 5%, as a result of an increase in the hours worked number of accidents which resulted in the affected DS Smith has been selected as a constituent of the employees being absent from work for longer periods.
FTSE4Good UK Index of companies deemed to meet Despite this increase in the severity rate for the year globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
as a whole there was evidence in the second half of DS Smith is also a constituent of the Kempen SNS the year of an improving trend in this indicator and Smaller Europe SRI Index for smaller companies the gure for the final quarter was signicantly lower deemed to have high social responsibility standards 2005 2006 2007 than that of the previous years final quarter.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 33 0.25 10.25 438 0.22 9.60 324 0.23 8.39 299 560 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued The Groups businesses share experience and information The Group had a number of minor environmental on safety matters and use a wide variety of techniques incidents during the year, following which prompt in their continuing efforts to reduce accidents.
They work corrective action and steps to prevent any recurrence closely with external health and safety agencies to were taken and, where necessary, the appropriate identify areas for increased attention and to provide agencies were informed.
The circumstances surrounding appropriate training.
Site health and safety audits by all environmental incidents are investigated immediately internal specialists and external consultants are used and the findings and lessons learnt are communicated to measure performance and highlight areas for throughout the Group as part of our drive to reduce improvement.
Investigations are carried out of all such incidents.
accidents and situations that might have resulted in The Groups paper manufacturing operations account accidents to ensure that we learn from these incidents for over 80% of the Groups environmental impact, and prevent recurrence.
Training in risk assessment particularly because their manufacturing process uses and root-cause analysis features strongly in health large quantities of energy and water.
The UK paper mills and safety training programmes.
Surveys carried out are regulated through Pollution Prevention and Control at a number of sites about employees attitudes towards PPC permits under which they each have specific safety have been followed up with initiatives aimed at improvement programmes and targets: St Regis overall addressing the issues identied.
Although we have compliance with its PPC emission limits was 99.7% in made significant progress in improving our safety 2006 07.
St Regis is a key participant in the UK paper performance, we are determined to reduce accidents sector Climate Change Levy CCL Agreement with the further and continually seek new ways to achieve this.
Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs under which the industry has undertaken to achieve energy Environmental Management Environment consumption reduction targets.
St Regis met its target The Group makes a major contribution to conserving % of Group operations with an appropriate environmental management for the year to September 2006 and is on course to resources and reducing landfill waste through its position system EMS meet its next target for the year to September 2007. as the leading UK collector of waste paper for recycling We are investigating potential alternative energy and the UKs largest producer of recycled paper.
DS sources, including refuse-derived fuel, for our UK Smiths corrugated and plastic packaging products are made from recycled raw materials wherever it is paper manufacturing operations.
practicable: in 2006 07, 74% of the paper, polymers The Groups UK and French paper operations are subject and films used were recycled material.
The Groups to the terms of their respective national schemes for businesses work with their packaging customers and 2005 2006 2007 implementing the EU Emissions Trading Directive.
Under retailers to optimise the use of resources and reduce the terms of the UK scheme, our UK mills have opted out waste in their supply chains.
In the year, the Group made Higher potential environmental impact of the first phase of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme operations with ISO 14001 accreditation progress towards its objective to reduce its impact on the EU ETS as they are a participant in the UK paper sector environment and it further strengthened the environmental Lower potential environmental impact CCL Agreement: they will, however, be subject to the operations with a simplied EMS management of its operations.
second phase of EU ETS, which commences in January The environmental performance and activities of the 2008.
Our French paper mills, which have been subject divisions are reviewed at the Group Environment to Phase 1 of EU ETS, have invested in a combined heat Committee, which meets three times a year and is chaired and power facility and have, to date, had an emissions by the Group Chief Executive.
Further progress was made allocation which is in excess of their actual emissions.
in 2006 07 towards our goal that all Group operations The extent of the effect of future phases of EU ETS on will have an appropriate environmental management our UK and French paper mills is as yet uncertain, being system EMS in place.
94% of the Groups operations dependent upon the details of the emissions allocations now have an EMS and, within this, 91% of the 35 and the market price of carbon under future phases of the Group operations identified as having higher potential scheme.
Present indications are that phase 2 of EU ETS is environmental impact, due to their size or type of activity, unlikely to have a significant negative effect on DS Smith are now accredited under the internationally recognised but the effects of subsequent phases from 2013 onwards ISO 14001 EMS.
95% of the Groups other 60 operations are likely to be more onerous.
There is an added risk that, have a simplified EMS in place, appropriate to their lower over time, governments will extend emissions trading, or level of potential environmental impact.
As part of their other forms of regulation of carbon emissions, to additional EMS, many Group businesses have procedures in place sectors of the economy which will encompass more of for assessing their suppliers environmental policies and management systems, as appropriate.
34 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 77 84 87 94 91 95 Environmental Performance Environmental Key Performance Indicators Throughout the Group, our businesses undertook 2006 07 2005 06 a variety of initiatives to reduce their environmental 1 Energy consumption impact in the course of the year.
The Groups overall Gigawatt hours 3,106 3,671 performance is reflected in the environmental key Megawatt hours 000 revenue 1.76 2.22 performance indicators shown in the adjacent table.
2 Emissions to air The Group consumed 15% less energy in 2006 07 Carbon dioxide CO 2 compared with the previous year, principally as a Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 336 421 result of the closure of two paper mills.
Energy usage Kilograms 000 revenue 190 255 per 000 of revenue was 21% lower.
Excluding the Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 474 504 effect of the two paper mill closures, the Groups Kilograms 000 revenue 268 305 energy usage was 1% lower, reflecting improved Sulphur dioxide SO 2 overall energy efficiency in the light of the increased Tonnes 135 137 production at the continuing operations.
Grams 000 revenue 76 83 Nitrous oxides NO The Groups lower energy usage in 2006 07 X Tonnes 851 1,050 resulted in a 20% reduction in direct emissions of Kilograms 000 revenue 482 635 carbon dioxide CO and a 6% reduction in indirect 2 Water Usage CO emissions associated with the Groups usage 2 Million cubic metres 9.5 14.9 of bought-in electricity and steam.
Direct emissions 000 cubic metres 000 revenue 5.4 9.0 of sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides, the other gases 3 Water discharge quantity paper mills only emitted to air in material quantities, were 2% and 19% lower, respectively, than in the previous year.
Million cubic metres of process water discharged 7.5 10.5 000 cubic metres tonne of paper produced 6.8 8.4 Water usage was reduced by 36%, as a result of Water discharge quality paper mills only a combination of the closures of two paper mills and Biological oxygen demand load our investment in water recycling processes.
Our paper 000 tonnes 1.5 14.5 mills account for approximately 95% of the total water Kilograms tonne of paper produced 1.4 11.6 used by the Group.
The average quality of the water Suspended solids load discharged by the paper mills, as measured by the 000 tonnes 1.3 3.6 biological oxygen demand and suspended solids loads Kilograms tonne of paper produced 1.2 2.9 of the effluent, has improved substantially following the Waste management closure of Sudbrook Mill: the particular manufacturing Waste sent to landll process of that mill resulted in its effluent containing 000 tonnes 62 72 a high level of cellulose material.
Kilograms 000 revenue 35 44 4 The waste sent to landfill by the Group reduced by Waste recycled 14% while the proportion of the waste produced by 000 tonnes 332 324 our businesses that was recycled increased from 82% Kilograms 000 revenue 188 196 in 2005 06 to 84% in 2006 07.
A substantial % of total waste recycled 84% 82% proportion of this recycling is accounted for by the Methodology: The Group is working towards collecting and reporting its environmental data in accordance with the reprocessing of waste created during the production guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is currently practicable.
The gures relate to all of the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned operations.
As a result of corrugated packaging and plastic packaging.
The of some changes in data coverage and methods of calculation, in order to comply with the above guidelines, the data paper mills also recycle much of their reject material, for 2005 06 has in some cases been restated from that published in the 2006 Annual Report.
such as plastic and polystyrene, which enters their process 1 Energy gures relate to usage of all fuels, including diesel for freight transport.
2 Emissions to air gures have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, including for freight transport.
As required by mixed in with the waste paper and is separated out during the GHGP, Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon dioxide emissions are reported separately.
Scope 1 direct emissions are paper manufacture.
Kemsley Mill utilises a substantial those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or vehicles owned by the Group: Scope 2 indirect emissions are those arising from bought-in energy e. g. electricity or steam where the combustion has been carried out by another proportion of its process waste through its own wastecompany.
The 2006 07 Scope 1 emissions included 18,000 tonnes 2005 06: 19,000 tonnes of CO which 2 to-energy plant, which efficiently burns the waste to were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants.
The reported emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides are those produced directly by the Group.
produce electricity and steam to power the mill.
3 Water discharge gures relate only to the Groups paper mills, which account for approximately 95% of the total water usage of the Group.
The quantities measured, in accordance with the requirements of the IPPC regulations, are for process water only and do not include cooling water.
48% of these discharges are to the sea, 35% are to rivers and Packaging and the Environment 17% are to sewers.
There is growing concern by society and government 4 Waste gures relate to waste generated by our operations: waste recycled includes recycling through waste-to-energy about the need to conserve resources and lower the and for agricultural use as landspread.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 35 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued amount of waste being disposed of in landll through materials, due to the large variety of polymers in use, a reduction in the amount of waste being created and the practicalities of separate collection and processing, an increase in the amount of materials being recycled.
contamination from contact with food and other This is resulting in increased attention being paid to technical considerations.
Wherever it is appropriate, reducing the overall quantity of packaging in use and our Plastic Packaging businesses use recycled materials increasing the proportion of packaging that is recycled.
and they increased the recycled proportion of their The Group recognises its responsibility to contribute polymer and lm raw material requirements from to the conservation of resources and is fullling this 18% in 2005 06 to 21% in 2006 07. responsibility in a number of ways.
Although corrugated packaging is not generally re-used, Most packaging performs the valuable functions of it is a fully recyclable packaging material that is produced protecting products, reducing product wastage, enabling predominantly from recycled paper in what is essentially more efficient and lower-cost handling and transportation a loop system.
Used corrugated boxes are recycled The Group makes a major contribution and, in many cases, contributes to lowering the into paper: this paper is converted into boxes which to recycling in the UK as both environmental impact of the supply of goods.
The are packed with goods: retailers or consumers discard a collector and reprocessor of choice of the most appropriate packaging material waste paper.
the used boxes which are then collected for recycling and pack design for a particular product depends and delivered to the paper mill to be turned into upon a wide range of factors including the nature of paper once again.
Corrugated products are playing the product itself, how the total supply chain for the an increasingly important role in the pursuit of product operates and the requirements of retailers sustainable,  packaging.
It is increasingly being recognised The Groups operations make a major contribution that packaging is just one, often relatively minor, aspect to the corrugated packaging recycling process.
of the total environmental impact of a product and it Severnside Recycling is the UKs largest collector should be considered in that context.
Our packaging of waste paper and also collects other materials for businesses work with their customers to develop packaging recycling.
It sources waste from major supermarkets, of the optimum specication for the required end-use.
other retailers and industrial operations and is Material Collected by DS Smith Packagings PackRight system enables all the providing the waste collection services for Tesco plcs Severnside Recycling factors relating to a particular pack to be analysed and project to collect consumer packaging waste at an 000 Tonnes in many instances our design and technical expertise increasing number of its stores.
All of the paper enables the customer to reduce the weight of raw produced by the Group is made from recycled paper.
materials used in a pack as well as to pack the St Regis is the UKs leading recycler of packaging goods more efficiently: this reduces transport costs waste and largest producer of recycled paper, while and thereby the carbon emissions per unit.
Recent DS Smith Kaysersberg is a significant recycler of collaboration by DS Smith Kaysersberg over a particular recovered paper in France: in total the Group recycled item of packaging for a major international beverage 1.2 million tonnes of paper in 2006 07.
76% of the company, for example, resulted in our recyclable 2005 2006 2007 paper used by the Groups corrugated packaging corrugated packaging replacing the previously used operations in 2006 07 was 100% recycled paper Corrugated packaging material which was difficult to recycle, and in the process and a further 3% was paper made from a mixture the weight of the packaging was reduced by 20%.
Total paper and plastic of recycled and virgin wood pulp.
The other 21% of the paper used was made from 100% virgin In some circumstances, packaging which is designed wood pulp: it has particular strength and appearance to be re-used many times, such as the Groups plastic characteristics which certain customers require for returnable transit packaging, may be required by their packaging and it is sourced from producers which customers if the packaging can be readily recovered, obtain their wood pulp from sustainable forestry sources.
transported and cleaned for re-use.
Plastic bag-in-box packaging is increasingly being used to contain liquids Our UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging businesses in bulk as well as for consumer use.
It has significant recently completed a project, supported by the Carbon benets for storing and transporting beverages and Trust, to establish the carbon footprint of their operations.
other liquids hygienically and securely, and can This work is enabling us to collaborate with other substantially extend the storage life of products, thus companies in our supply chain on analyses of the total reducing product wastage.
Bag-in-box packs use space environmental impact of products that use our packaging.
efficiently and are relatively light-weight compared DS Smith Packaging and Severnside Recycling are with bottles or drums so they may reduce the overall working together to help large supermarket chains energy usage in the supply chain because they can be and other businesses to reduce the amount of waste transported and stored more efficiently.
Plastic materials they send to landll and improve their environmental may be more difficult to recycle than some other performance with regard to packaging.
36 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 682 1,077 688 1,130 728 1,183 The Groups paper collection and recycling operations of locations.
In situations where there is no viable play an important role in meeting the EU and UK alternative to making employees redundant, the government objectives for recycling of packaging Groups approach is to minimise the number of waste, as prescribed in the EU Packaging and compulsory redundancies and, in situations where Packaging Waste Directive and the UK Packaging compulsory redundancies are unavoidable, to make Waste Regulations.
Under the Directive, the UK is every effort to assist employees in nding alternative required to recycle at least 60% of all paper packaging positions within the Group or with other employers.
by 2008: it is already well ahead of this target, with Training and development programmes are carried 77% of paper packaging being recycled in 2006, and out by the Groups businesses to meet their specic DS Smith is the largest contributor to this reprocessing.
needs for raising operational performance and career development.
The individual training needs Employees of employees are met through a variety of schemes We aim to create a working environment which will including: management development programmes, attract, retain and motivate good people, and enable which in some cases involve external accreditation: them to full their potential.
The Group ensures that support for study for external vocational and professional the divisions have in place appropriate structures, qualications: and E-learning programmes.
procedures and resources to implement the employeerelated aspects of the Groups Key Corporate Values, Community Involvement which include: providing fair opportunities for We seek to develop and maintain good relations in employment to all: treating everyone with dignity the local communities in which we operate.
As well and respect: not tolerating any form of harassment as providing significant employment opportunities, or discrimination: ensuring advancement is based we aim to make positive contributions to these on merit: and providing appropriate training and communities and build a reputation as a good development opportunities.
Our businesses work The Group is committed to applying equal opportunities closely with local schools and colleges providing in all recruitment and employment practices.
It is also training, mentoring, work experience placements and committed, as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights other opportunities for pupils to learn about industry and legislation requirements in each of the countries in and business.
The Group is involved in a wide range which it operates: in practice the Group often exceeds of other local community activities including sponsorship the local and international requirements.
As DS Smiths of community projects or sports teams and provision operations are almost entirely located in member of adult skills training.
Our businesses participate in countries of the OECD, human rights matters are liaison groups with local residents, particularly at not perceived as a significant Group risk.
locations where there is a need to review ways in The annual turnover rate in the Groups workforce which we can reduce any inconvenience to neighbours worldwide of 11% 2005 06: 11% compares from our operations as a result of trafc movements, 1 favourably with the UK national average of 18%.
Some sites hold open days to foster Recruitment and retention of employees is not a relationships with their local communities.
significant issue for most of the Groups operations The Group supports charitable fund-raising activities but the situation varies depending upon the alternative through cash contributions and in the form of product employment opportunities in any particular location and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest and the skills required.
In common with many other amount of money donated by the Group is given by employers, a number of our businesses experience individual operating units, principally to good causes difficulty in recruiting high-calibre engineers: this in their local communities.
Donations by the Group is being addressed through the provision of headquarters are principally focused on helping young apprenticeships and graduate sponsorships.
disadvantaged people become involved in business Our divisions and businesses communicate with, and working life.
and consult, their people through newsletters, intranets, brieng meetings, local works councils, national Content of the Business Review employee forums and a European Works Council.
This Business Review has been prepared to meet the requirements for companies to provide an enhanced The recent restructuring actions undertaken to improve Business Review in accordance with the March 2005 the Groups performance regrettably resulted in amendments to the UK Companies Act 1985. significant reductions in employment at a number 1 Source: Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 37
