Corporate Social Responsibility Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide Introduction Health and Safety Policy are: This report describes the policies and procedures that the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko ensuring that health and safety issues are at operates in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, the forefront of considerations when we design which protects the environment as well as safeguarding our equipment: the health and safety of its employees, its customers, and the communities in which it operates.
The ensuring that our equipment is built and process for identifying, evaluating and managing the maintained to the highest standards: risks that are considered significant is summarised under the heading of Internal Control on page 49. training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment: and The nature of our business is that we work in many different countries, often in remote and difficult ensuring that health and safety issues have environments, with equipment and substances, which the appropriate level of focus throughout the if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to management chain.
people and harmful to property and the environment.
We frequently operate in response to natural or Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental man-made disasters, where the infrastructure has been Health and Safety Management System GEMS badly damaged and where operating conditions are far which has been implemented throughout the business.
Over time, therefore, we have developed At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice a comprehensive range of operating procedures and document that is published in 8 languages English, processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian to people or to the environment.
and Singhalese and made available to every Aggreko employee worldwide.
The Best Operating Practice is Health and Safety updated in the light of experience and incidents.
Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively which is designed to ensure that the Company knows produce high-pressure compressed air and high of every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform voltages, either of which can be harmful to people accident and incident data collection procedure is if mishandled.
implemented worldwide, and from these we can measure our performance and benchmark our Aggrekos policy is to implement common health operations.
Performance measures are reported at a and safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian incident is immediately reported to the Executive desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
procedures are the same high standard.
Meetings of the senior management of each region are held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
On a quarterly basis, the Executive Director responsible for Health and Safety, George Walker, reports to the Board.
46 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
