We measure our safety performance using a metric The Environment called Frequency Accident Rating FAR, which is a Environmental Policy measurement of lost-time accidents in relation to the Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all number of hours worked.
The usefulness of this measure continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design is that we can benchmark our performance against and use of the most suitable technology, we also other businesses.
It is calculated as the number of aim to minimise the environmental impact of that lost-time accidents multiplied by 200,000 hours being equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers the base for 100 full time employees working 40 hours equipment and solutions that are designed to comply per week, 50 weeks per year, divided by the number with applicable laws, regulations and industry standards of man-hours worked.
The benchmark is the 2006 wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, this means level reported for the US rental and leasing industries they comply with the laws, regulations and standards by the US Department of Labor of 1.0.
Aggrekos of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which FAR performance is much better than the benchmark we operate and, therefore, far exceed the levels and has also seen considerable improvement over the required in many others.
A FAR score of 0.40 has been set by The two major environmental issues we deal with in the Group as a target for 2008.
This measure is also our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment included under Key Performance Indicators in the the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the Business Review on page 27. safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
Set out below is an explanation of the technical terms Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar used in this section.
They comprise: ensuring that environmental issues are at the Technical Terms forefront of considerations when we design our eet: NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
ensuring that our equipment is built and Particulate In general this term relates to maintained to the highest standards: visible smoke.
Tier 1, tier 2, tier 3 US Federal Government target training and educating our staff worldwide emission reduction levels.
in the safe operation of our equipment: and g bhp-hr Emissions in grams per brake-horsepower hour.
ensuring that environmental issues have the appropriate level of focus throughout the CO2 Carbon Dioxide.
LWA Sound power level at source.
Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of kVA A thousand volt amperes.
Over the years, as engines have become more efficient and legislation to limit emissions around the world has become Equal Opportunities stricter, emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities works in co-operation with the manufacturers of for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender diesel engines in order to meet new emission or any other considerations that do not affect a requirements at the earliest opportunity.
persons ability to perform their job.
The principle contribution we can make to reducing The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in development and promotion of employees are based good order, and introducing engines into the eet on the suitability of the individual.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The chart below shows a summarised account of the Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over requirement to meet emission guidelines for Oxides other energy sources.
It is seen as economically more of Nitrogen NOx and Particulate as set out by the US efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas Federal Government.
Most of Aggrekos generator eet produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
are powered by Tier 1 engines, although an increasing In addition, technological advances are constantly proportion of our new-build engines are now Tier 2. improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation Subject to manufacturers ability to introduce the and storage techniques as well as in equipment that necessary technology into diesel engine volume uses natural gas.
production, we expect that by 2010 the vast majority of engines we build will be certied to at least Tier 2.
Natural gas is considered as an  clean fuel, offering important environmental benets when compared to other fossil fuels.
The Diesel Generator Emission Development superior environmental qualities over coal or oil are 16 that emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and 1995 Unregulated that the level of nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide 14 emissions is signicantly lower.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a stranded resource or is derived from 12 a biological source, a CO2 and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
This helps to reduce problems 10 of acid rain, ozone layer or greenhouse gases.
8 In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is Tier 1 6 effectively a stranded resource which dictates that the gas is ared to the atmosphere as opposed to Tier 2 4 being used for beneficial services.
This practice is Tier 3 being increasingly regulated and Aggrekos service 2 allows for generation of power from this valuable resource on a more exible and scaleable basis than 0 2014 existing solutions.
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 Particulate [g bhp-hr ] Alternative Energy Sources In addition to the work we have undertaken developing natural gas-powered generators, we are Our strong presence in markets which are particularly constantly reviewing product technologies, looking sensitive to emissions, such as California, means that for advances that we can adopt within our product the control of emissions is at the forefront of our portfolio.
These include: design considerations and decisions on engine choice.
Bio-fuels Across many of our markets we have Aggreko Natural Gas Generator Development seen the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing energy source.
Provided the right preparation of emissions, and have completed the development of equipment, these fuels are compatible with most a new gas-fuelled temporary power solution, which of our generator eet, either in a blended, or pure has signicantly lower levels of emissions see below.
Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given Tier 1 Engine Gas engine Reduction % that the crop that derived the fuel has absorbed CO2 from the atmosphere.
While we will continue to NOX 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87% Particulates 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75% support customers who wish to run our equipment on Bio-fuels, our main concern with this energy source is sustainability of the sources of production, and the environmental impact of certain production methods.
Consequently, we are not actively developing Bio-fuel use in our business.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 NOx[g bhp-hr ] Fuel Cells We have noted with interest the Petroleum Spills and the Safe Disposal increasing reliability and reduced costs of fuel cells.
of Waste Fluids At present, the main obstacle to adoption is the Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable availability of non-fossil fuel derived Hydrogen.
quantity of diesel fuel and the occurrence of fuel Nearly all fuel cells currently either run on Hydrogen spills is an area that the Group monitors very closely.
reformed from fossil fuels, or reform fossil fuels in The measure used by management to measure the their energy process, producing similar Carbon performance of the Group in handling fuel is the and pollutant levels as todays diesel engines.
This is calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage the average MW on rent.
The PRR performance over application of renewable energy sources to large the past three years has been: 2007 a rating of 0.13, temporary power generation projects.
While we 2006 a rating of 0.60 and 2005 a rating of 0.48. have for example reviewed the application of fuel Our equipment has been specically designed to cell battery technology in combination with a minimise the risk of uid spillage through features diesel generator to provide hybrid power, which can such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.10 has been technology is not yet advanced enough to enable set by the Group as a target for 2008. us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We do however foresee a role for our products in Another potential source of environmental damage supporting systems and grids which rely upon is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil renewables, where seasonal restrictions can occur.
In our Local business, these are normally returned to our service centres where they are safely Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide CO2 disposed of.
In our International Power Projects All of Aggrekos core activities release CO2 into the business, site-specic arrangements are made to atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
The most ensure the safe handling of these items.
significant impact arises from power generation in Aggreko International due to the intensiveness of Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way to our activities in providing temporary power stations.
safety incidents, with monthly reporting at regional Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon level, and quarterly reporting to the Board.
fuels inevitably causes the release of CO2 and the performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable Noise to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through researching the availability of alternative mobile an equipment eet that minimises external noise.
power sources that will reduce the level of CO2 This is done by the use of custom-built acoustic emissions: until an economically viable alternative enclosures as well as high performance isolation becomes available, the level of emissions will mirror and attenuation systems.
Aggreko continues to work the level of our business activity.
The actual amount closely with its suppliers and local university research of CO2 released by our engines is driven by the usage departments in order to develop its expertise in this our customers make of our equipment on rent: an eld.
As a result, our equipment is able to achieve engine running 24 hours day will emit much more the following performance standards that are well CO2 than an engine used for a few hours a day.
below the maximum levels permitted by current These patterns of usage can vary widely from country European legislation.
to country and from year to year.
We estimate that customers using Aggreko engines produced an average CO2 emission rate of 0.65 tonnes of CO2 per megawatt hour.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
