Corporate Social Responsibility continued Size of Generator Certied Noise Level Sound Power LWA The feedback we receive from Book Aid International Aggreko Aggreko and their partners is extremely encouraging.
For Maximum Standard Premium example, in 2007 the Kenya National Library Service EU Limit Product Product suffered a 20% reduction in funding.
A donation of 30kVA 98.3 93.3 78.0 4,000 books through our project helped to maintain 60kVA 98.6 89.9 80.0 the library service through this difficult period.
It has 125kVA 99.0 90.0 83.0 supported them in the re-launch of mobile and 200kVA 99.1 95.0 91.0 provincial library services, and enabled them to open 320kVA 99.4 94.0 90.0 three further community-based libraries.
It has also Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certied noise level equates helped support a mother and child reading project.
to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
Refrigerant Business Ethics In accordance with the timelines and accords set out Ethics Policy by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, CFC plant from its temperature control rental eet performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: long-term success is something less tangible and less we have introduced HFC replacement prototypes easily illustrated with gures or case studies.
This key and production models in all areas.
element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term Social Responsibility relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, Policy as well as consultants and agents who we work with, Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to are expected to behave ethically in their work, and engage with the communities in which they work, our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate and each year they undertake innumerable initiatives Ethics Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make to help the disadvantaged or those affected by Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain natural disasters.
our reputation for exceptional customer service and ethical business dealings, to compete ethically, and One such initiative is Book Aid International, a to ensure the business is managed to a consistently charity promoting literacy in developing countries, high standard.
Further discussion of our policies with which we signed a funding agreement in 2006. for handling ethical risks is set out under Principal We have undertaken to provide them with 40,000 Risks and Uncertainties on page 24. each year, to enable them to provide books and other educational material to schools and libraries in Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Africa.
Last year, from the funding we provided, Book Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their Aid International supplied over 20,000 books to its condentiality and position is protected if they do so.
partners, including Non-Governmental Organisations, refugee camps, prisons and orphanages in six subSee our Corporate Responsibility Website Saharan Africa countries.
Further information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy The wide variety and diversity of the books supplied are available at www.
com ourcompany is, we are told, of enormous value to Book Aid .
asp international partners, who can reach out to many communities and meet the information needs of key target groups, including the poorest people.
Whenever possible, partners undertake activities to promote books and reading within their networks.
These can include major initiatives, such as the East Africa reading tents project, or smaller bespoke activities for the visually impaired, or reading awareness days.
All activities are aimed at ensuring the target groups are aware and able to access the books made available, and that a culture of reading begins to develop.
50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 COMMITTEE REPORTS Committee Reports Audit Committee Report 52 Nomination Committee Report 54 Remuneration Report 55
