Social responsibility At EMI we take responsibility to our stakeholders very seriously, A variety of training programmes continue to be offered be they shareholders, employees, artists, customers, suppliers both regionally for example, the European Future Executive or the communities within which we operate.
Our social Programme, which is designed to ensure a pool of future senior responsibility policy, adopted by the Board in 2003, summarises staff who are networked within the business and have a wide our key principles in the workplace, community, environment appreciation of regional strategy and business objectives and marketplace.
This policy is implemented around the world and locally for example, UKs new Aspire programme, launched by local management, who also have flexibility to develop their in September 2006, which aims to equip young participants with own programmes in line with the expectations of their the core skills required to be a successful manager and leader local stakeholders.
We have also created the EMI Academy which is a web-based training facility that extends online We are pleased that EMI continues to be included in the leading learning to all employees across the Group.
global Corporate Social Responsibility CSR indices, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good.
We also remain During the year to 31 March 2007, 43% of the total workforce active in the Media CSR Forum in the UK and sit on its steering received some form of skills training, compared to 29% the group.
More detailed information on our programme can be previous year.
found in our annual social responsibility reports, which are available on our website, www.
For some time we have measured and reported on employee diversity and health and safety across our worldwide operations.
Employment As a result of a Board review of our CSR programme in Our social responsibility policy includes the key points of our May 2006, we revisited our definition of management for employment policy framework equal opportunity, health and our diversity reporting to ensure that it captured only senior safety, open communication and fair reward.
The data was found to be robust and we can, matters are the responsibility of each business division and are therefore, report with consistency for this fifth year.
overseen at both a regional and global level.
Our Standards of Business Conduct, which apply to employees throughout the During 2006 07, women made up 48% of all staff, showing no organisation, aim to ensure that all our people comply with our change from the previous year: however, the number of women high standards of integrity and accountability.
in management increased from 23% to 27%.
Ethnic minorities rose slightly to 15% of all staff, with management representation The last quarter of 2006 07 has been a testing one in terms staying at 9%, unchanged from the previous year.
The number of managing our people, in the wake of our announcement in of employees with self-reported disabilities is still very small, January of a significant restructuring programme to reduce our at 0.4% of both staff and management.
overheads and streamline the Group.
We believe that a carefully managed programme which has included consultation, We were delighted that EMI Music Australia was named as voluntary redundancy, redeployment where possible, good an Employer of Choice for Women during the year by a severance terms and outplacement has ensured that governmental equal opportunities agency.
redundancies have been handled fairly.
During 2006 07 there were 12 reportable injuries illnesses Given the rapidly changing nature of our marketplace, the key 2.4 per 1,000 employees based on the UK standard measure: employment challenge now facing the Group is to ensure the this compares to 17 2.9 per 1,000 employees the previous year.
necessary skills are in place across the business to deal with Days absence from illness per employee was a little lower, at that transition.
Increasingly our training and development 3.6 compared to 3.9.
We did not incur any health and safety programmes are addressing this need.
Roundhouse Studios launch London Sinfonietta in-school workshops Songwriter and producer Guy Chambers far right helps out Students at the EMI MSF-supported Roselands School in Cornwall at the launch of the Roundhouse Studios in July 2006. discover the work of Simon Bainbridge.
Credit: Mary Neale 34 Community Roundhouse Studios, the north London state-of-the-art 2007 marks the tenth anniversary of the EMI Music Sound multi-media facility that includes the EMI Live Music Studio, Foundation EMI MSF, our flagship initiative in music education.
was opened in July 2006 and described by UK Culture Minister EMI MSF is independently governed but EMI continues to cover David Lammy as the engine room of young peoples creativity.
virtually all of its administration costs, which enables the charity Since opening, over 3,000 young people aged 11-25 have to spend close to 100% of its investment income on supporting participated in Roundhouse Studios projects in music, digital schools, teachers and students in the UK and Ireland.
To date, and visual arts, film, video, TV and radio, photography, dance EMI MSF has granted awards in excess of 2.7m, close to half and drama.
One of the projects during the year was the of which has supported state secondary schools in their bids development of a radio documentary about 75 years of EMIs to become specialist performing arts or music colleges.
Staff there who had also designed and The charity is the largest single sponsor in this sector.
equipped the EMI studio at the Roundhouse offered extensive help to the participants, broadening their experience and As a result of a recent strategic review, EMI MSF decided to look enhancing their enjoyment of the project.
for a way to make the same sort of impact on music education at a primary level as it had in the secondary sector through We continued to support music education in the Royal Borough its specialist schools programme.
The charity this year of Kensington & Chelsea, where the Groups headquarters commissioned the Institute of Education to carry out research are located, and to work with Teach First to recruit the most able looking at the value and provision of music education in the graduates to teach music in under-resourced secondary schools UK during the early years of primary school.
The results will across the UK.
In the US, we continued our partnerships with the be announced later in 2007, and will guide future funding.
California Institute of Arts, enabling music students there to work with Capitol Studios staff, and The Grammy Jazz One of the highlights of the year for EMI MSF was a fundraising Ensembles programme.
classical concert at Londons Cadogan Hall, devised and put together by the head of EMI Classics in the UK a professionally A new initiative in the US during 2006 07 was the establishment trained concert pianist and a marketing manager in the of the EMI Music Publishing Centre at Syracuse University.
This International Classics division a viola player and manager of the exciting new programme will help co-ordinate student internships Kensington Symphony Orchestra.
They both took part and were for academic credit, facilitate the pairing of students with music joined by four EMI artists soprano Natasha Marsh, cellist Natalie industry mentors, and provide career placement services to Clein, tenor Alfie Boe and pianist and radio presenter Myleene students before and after graduation.
Klass and the Kensington Symphony Orchestra conducted by Russell Keable.
Our worldwide charitable cash donations for the year were 0.8m.
This was complemented by additional community This was the fourth successive year in which EMI and EMI investment from participation in industry fundraising events MSF have worked together with the London Sinfonietta to around the world, arts sponsorship, staff time and gifts in kind.
give secondary music students workshops and first-hand In the UK, for the seventh consecutive year, EMI was a member experience of classical contemporary music.
This years project of the PerCent Club, which recognises companies that invest was based on a new piece by composer Simon Bainbridge a minimum of 1% of pre-tax profits in the community.
We also which explores the relationship between music and architecture.
received a Bronze Award from the Charities Aid Foundation The London Sinfonietta, together with EMI, also secured for our payroll giving scheme.
matched funding from Arts & Business for the project, which will enable work to continue with participating teachers to design and develop resources for teaching classical contemporary music in the classroom.
This will be made widely available to music educators.
EMI Music Sound Foundation fundraising concert EMI Classics signed artists Natasha Marsh, Myleene Klass, Natalie Clein and Alfie Boe at the concert for EMI MSF.
35 Social responsibility continued Environment Across EMI one of our key goals is to give consumers the best During 2006 07, our worldwide energy use decreased by 12%.
possible digital music experience, and at the close of the financial This was primarily due to operating for a full year without our year we took a major step in that direction by announcing that we previous manufacturing operations in Japan and our European will provide downloadable versions of our releases that are free of central distribution facility in the Netherlands.
Associated carbon digital rights management software see page 11, which will dioxide emissions dropped by 15% in absolute terms but rose enable music fans to play their music on a much wider range of 1% when related to revenue.
Globally we sourced 24% of our electricity demand from Artists are the lifeblood of our business and we are increasingly renewable resources, an increase of 3%.
looking at ways in which we can work more in partnership with them and their managers.
A new initiative during 2006 07 was to Most of our businesses around the world continued to reduce pilot an Artists Music Portal AMP, which will provide managers their environmental impacts where they could.
Actions taken with easy, quick and online access to physical and digital sales included commissioning energy audits by third parties in the UK figures for their artists releases, chart information, and a range of and the US where the Christian Music Group achieved a resulting media assets such as photos, press releases, audio and video.
5.4% reduction in both electricity usage and cost and reducing AMP was developed specifically after engaging with artists resource use for instance, EMI Music Australia reduced water management about what they wanted from a music company consumption by 27% through more careful management and and as part of our move to greater transparency with the creative various companies reduced their paper use by between 5% to community.
We also increased the use of recycled paper and vegetable inks in product packaging.
Globally, both our budget reference We continued to work hard at discovering the very best musical manual and inter-company royalty statements are now sent talent from around the world and to provide long-term investment electronically.
and support to these artists.
One notable feature of this is our consistent investment in local repertoire.
We work to establish Environmental management is an area that needs vigilance and those artists outside their home markets, supporting their commitment.
Throughout the Group, we reinforce the message commercial aspirations but also helping to spread the diversity of as often as we think necessary and the results can be impressive music in a multi-cultural world.
when a particular business unit embraces the challenge.
A good example this year was our EMI Music offices in Ireland which, in a A good example of this in the last year was the international period of just six months, implemented changes to heating, sash success of Chinas 12 Girls Band, a group that fuses the ancient window repairs to reduce heat loss, a switch to 100% recycled traditions of Chinese classical and folk with sounds of Western paper only, more robust switch off procedures for electrical pop, classical and jazz.
This approach is also reflected by the equipment, higher energy efficiency from duplex printing, and growing popularity of RBD, a Mexican signing, in the US and recycling streams for all materials except polystyrene.
Spain as well as in Chile, Argentina and Brazil, and the strong global sales of the latest album from Frances Air.
Marketplace Today, more people are listening to more music in more places and in more ways than they have ever done at any time in history.
That is good news for the music industry, but it also makes it of paramount importance that we adapt our way of doing business to the rapidly changing demands of the consumer and the marketplace.
