Operating and financial review continued Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Responsibilities to our people and communities Enodis is committed to socially responsible conduct in all its business Our people are critical to our success.
We strive to provide a working practices.
To this end, the Company and its businesses seek to environment where employees are empowered to contribute to the achieve the highest standards consistent with its obligations to its success of the business while also achieving their own personal shareholders, employees and customers.
We concentrate on first hiring the best and then helping our people develop their potential on an ongoing basis with the correct As a global company, the Board recognises the need to reflect training and tools.
We are an equal opportunity workplace and local conditions in its approach to Corporate Social Responsibility.
recognise that diversity helps to foster innovation.
So while we apply a number of policies across the Group, for example the Group Code of Ethics, we also look to each operating In addition, we offer opportunities for personal development at company to develop its own particular programmes and policies a local level through community action.
Developed at each operating that are relevant to its own business environment.
company, these programmes help meet real local community needs as well as the needs of our employees.
Participation ranges from Each company in the Group also undertakes a range of initiatives to: office-wide fundraising, to sponsoring local sports teams, to the support our people: donation of equipment for people in need.
benefit the communities in which we operate: and Some examples of this years activities are described below: reduce the impact on our environment.
In Italy, Frimont S. p. A. is working to support the disabled.
How we do business This year, they donated a transport vehicle to a local association.
Frimont also sourced about 478,000 of materials We conduct business in an ethical manner and do not tolerate from local cooperatives of disabled workers.
bribery, corruption or unfair practices.
Our Ethical Code sets a framework for ensuring our responsibilities are consistently In the US, Delfield supports the Michigan Special Olympics, delivered in the following areas: which provides sports training and athletic competition in a variety of Olympic-type sports for children and adults with fair business practice: intellectual disabilities.
Volunteers from our Delfield operations staff relations and dignity: assist in the management of the events as well as providing support to participants during the event.
bribery and corruption: Charitable fundraising is pursued with great enthusiasm supply-chain issues: and across all of our North American businesses.
contribute individually and can apply for matching funds through the Enodis Foundation.
This year, total donations We are proud to make this Code publicly available at of nearly US$160,000 were made to 75 different http: www.
com organisations, ranging from national causes like Ronald This year we have further developed our privacy policy, which McDonald House and the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer strengthens our commitment to the protection of personal Foundation, to local organisations such as the Art Reach of information.
In all cases personal information is collected, stored Mid Michigan, Friends of Brooker Creek Reserve and the and used in a fair and non-intrusive manner, and only with fully Childrens Museum of Denver.
Where applicable, our privacy policy Enodis plc came together as a group this year in response is compliant with US and EU laws.
This policy is also publicly to the damaging flooding in Sheffield, England.
A special fund available on our website.
was set up to contribute to the Flood Relief effort.
In addition to helping with specific cases of hardship involving Enodis employees, the fund also supported the general relief appeal coordinated by the South Yorkshire Community Foundation.
In total, Enodis plc raised 30,000 under the banner of Hands Across Enodis.
Hands Across 48 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Our safety statistics are collected globally and distributed monthly.
Workmens compensation incurred in dollars Group FY05 to FY07 FY07 has seen 11 of our 28 manufacturing sites without lost time due to a work related injury.
Workmens compensation incurred across the Group are down 3% from FY06, following significant cost US$1,081,312 reductions at some operating companies.
For example, Jackson MSC has had a 92% reduction in incurred dollars for workmens US$793,121 compensation over the past three years.
Garland Commercial US$769,083 Industries has lowered this expense by 83% in the same time frame.
In addition, Merrychef and Viscount Catering have achieved a full year without work-related injuries, totalling a combined half a million man-hours.
Frymaster has achieved over two million hours with no lost time injuries.
For FY08, we are working towards a target rate '05 '06 '07 of no more than five recordable injuries and a lost time rate of no more than one.
We want all of our operating companies to achieve Workmens compensation Workmens compensation this commitment in FY08.
incurred in dollars Garland incurred in dollars Jackson FY05 to FY07 FY05 to FY07 Responsibilities to our environment US$72,537 US$163,819 We believe a proactive approach to environmental issues is the best way to manage our risks and develop opportunities related both to our operations and our products.
As a Group policy, Enodis plc requires each operating company to manage its own US$28,909 environmental risks and impacts.
This includes compliance with the letter and spirit of local environmental legislation.
US$11,764 US$21,483 US$11,529 Consistent with this approach, many of our companies are early adopters of environmental legislation.
In Italy, Frimont and Castel '05 '06 '07 '05 '06 '07 MAC were early co-founders of a consortium for disposal of WEEE in compliance with the European Directive and early adopters of the RoHS European Directive banning hazardous substances from Health and Safety electrical equipment.
The safety of our people is paramount.
We use an approach We recognise that there is a business case beyond compliance that takes into account the work environment in its entirety: the with environmental protection.
Many of our companies undertake people, the equipment they use and the building they work in.
voluntary efforts, such as implementing environmental management Safety inspections are performed at all manufacturing locations systems certified to ISO14001 and undertaking recycling initiatives.
to ensure that we are in compliance with local regulations, as For example, Cleveland Range Ltd has implemented a policy for well as our own Risk Management Manual.
In the US, an internal recycling 60% of its metal, cardboard, wood, paper, cans, glass and OHSA Occupational Health and Safety Administration Compliance hydraulic oil.
Ice-O-Matic recycles packaging and scrap metals, and has Audit is completed by all operating companies.
an on-site water treatment facility.
Castel MAC in Italy has reduced Property inspections, involving all aspects of fire protection and water consumption by almost 2530% in the galvanising plant by building safety from an engineering standpoint, occur at regular recycling water, with additional water recycling projects planned.
These also include reviews of equipment and electrical Enodis is also working to develop  products safety with recommendations for improvement.
We have researched alternate ecological non-ozone Enodis has also adopted an aggressive ergonomic programme depleting refrigerants for our equipment to reduce global warming that addresses symptoms before they become injuries.
This is potential and prototypes are being tested.
We have also adopted accomplished by looking at the individual workstation and how easy cleaning devices in our machine range to increase efficiency the worker has to move to perform his or her job with the emphasis and reduce water and power consumption.
We are also a leading on body mechanics and providing professional therapy if needed.
designer and manufacturer of energy-efficient and environmentally responsible equipment.
Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 49 Operating and financial review continued Corporate Social Responsibility continued Through our Enodis Enerlogic programme, we make it easy for operators to identify, evaluate and purchase more than 600 foodservice products that are verified to meet independent third-party standards to save energy, water and money.
Because different types of equipment have different standards, depending on the type of energy and conservation benefits involved, the Enerlogic programme incorporates a combination of third-party standards, including: Meeting or exceeding California Energy Commission rebate standards, or Being ENERGY STAR rated, or Meeting criteria outlined by the US Federal Energy Management Program, including products that: Working with our partners incorporate new energy-saving technology, Customers and suppliers are key elements of the success of our involve renewable energy, business.
We work together to ensure that our business is run in a responsible and profitable manner, with mutual benefits.
demonstrate water efficiency, and or Customers feature sustainable design and operations.
We work with our customers to ensure they are able to use Scotsman, Ice-O-Matic and Jackson are currently submitting our equipment in the most efficient manner.
This year, we were documentation to participate as ENERGY STAR partners, and honoured to be named as the Education Provider of the Year by the documenting equipment performance for qualifying units.
Foodservice Consultants Society International for our accredited Cleveland, Delfield and Frymaster already participate as ENERGY training programme, Energy Saving Technology in Foodservice.
STAR partners, and offer more than 200 products that meet or The training is offered several times each year at the Enodis exceed ENERGY STAR standards for energy efficiency.
Technology Center in Tampa, USA.
Consultants are presented with a one-day overview of current environmental trends driving kitchen innovation and the ways in which different categories of equipment Going green: meet those needs.
The energy-efficiency training programme is Beef OBradys held in conjunction with a second day focused on Accelerated Cooking Technology.
Beef OBradys franchisees have been thrilled with the Scotsman Prodigy Cube Ice Machine, according to Debbie Ferris, Project Suppliers Manager of Beef OBradys.
We chose Prodigy because it uses We are working to help our suppliers undertake the changes less water and power.
We are all trying to go green, its very necessary to underpin Enodis CSR objectives.
Enodis includes in important to be as energy efficient as possible.
The very simple its supplier agreements and terms and conditions requirements for plug and play serviceability of Prodigy was another very attractive suppliers to meet environmental, social and other similar local and reason why Debbie Ferris chose the new Scotsman Prodigy Cube national laws.
Part of our evaluation of existing and future suppliers Ice Machine.
is to review supplier workplace conditions and processes, and provide necessary feedback.
On some occasions, we provide hands-on support for improvement.
We are also working with our suppliers to develop more environmentally and energy friendly products, including development of CO driven non-ozone depleting 2 refrigeration products, green products, environmentally friendly foam, recyclable packaging and RoHS compliance along with products systems for major energy improvements.
50 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review
