 13 12 07 11:37 Page 8 Corporate Responsibility The Group continues to adopt an approach to the management of corporate responsibility that balances the long term interests of stakeholders by focusing on those matters which are relevant to long-term success and the environment in which the business operates.
The Board is committed to act in a responsible manner.
This report sets out the key areas we have focused on during the period under review.
Our approach to corporate responsibility includes: analysing and managing risk: maintaining a continuing dialogue with stakeholders: and managing the environmental and social impact of the business on employees and the community.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Risk Management The identification, management and monitoring of key risks is undertaken as part of the Groups system of internal control as described on page 28.
In addition, we work with employees, licensees and suppliers as appropriate to ensure we understand any issues which may impact on the workplace, the community or the environment.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of the approach to social responsibility matters.
All executive directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in environmental matters and report to the Board as necessary on significant risks.
The most significant corporate responsibility issues for the Group are considered below and the Group has put in place policies to ensure: compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice: employees are provided with a safe working environment: and ongoing training needs of employees are met.
The Workplace The Groups Health & Safety Policy the H&S Policy clearly states its intention to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
In order to deliver this policy, the Group has established an internal Health & Safety Management Group the H&S Group with responsibility for advising, reviewing and delivering the agreed management systems employed by the business to satisfy its health and safety responsibilities.
The H&S Group reports to the Company Secretary who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board.
The H&S Groups remit is carried out in accordance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all other relevant health & safety statutory provisions and approved codes of practice.
The H&S Group has adopted the principles contained in the Health and Safety Executive guidance HSG65 Managing Health and Safety, which includes the following specific requirements: the establishment of a formal written policy: the establishment of a communication system with staff: the ongoing identification of risks and required responses: and the ongoing measurement of performance and the continual improvement of process and procedure to address changing risks.
The H&S Group monitors accidents affecting staff, licensees and contractors, audits the understanding and application of the H&S policy and procedure by staff and contractors and, in September 2007, provided its annual report and risk assessment to the Board.
During the year the H&S Group has organised fire warden, first aid and lift evacuation training for office-based employees.
In addition, the H&S Group has reviewed its policy providing guidance for the health and safety of employees driving on company business and introduced an HSE guidance pack for homeworkers.
8 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:37 Page 9 Corporate Responsibility The Directors Report sets out employment policies and explains the way we communicate with employees.
The key risk area in our working environment is the health, safety and well-being of employees.
Employees work in a low risk environment.
Again there has been no material health and safety issue, incident or fine for noncompliance during the period under review.
The Environment The Group recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement through education, communication and direct action where applicable.
i Carbon Management The Pub Estate The Group has established an Environmental Impact Committee with a view to reviewing strategy and implementing policies to deliver high quality energy services to our pubs, including, in 2007: continued promotion of cellar cooling maintenance contracts under which our licensees are able to utilise highly energy efficient cellar cooling equipment 4,244 pubs are currently under such contracts and to target the replacement of 10% of inefficient cellar cooling equipment each year to ensure optimal energy performance: the introduction of a marketing campaign to raise the profile of and promote the benefits of the cellar cooling maintenance contracts to our licensees: and continued focus on piloting and incorporating new technologies to ensure optimal energy performance of cellar cooling equipment.
As reported in 2006 the Group adopted the Carbon Trusts 5-Step Carbon Management approach across its operations, including our head office and the pub estate to accelerate the integration of carbon issues throughout the Group and address our short, medium and long-term climate impacts.
During the year we appointed LowC Communities Ltd, an external consultant, to provide the necessary skills and expertise to elevate carbon and energy to the forefront of our business thinking.
In 2006 and 2007 we undertook a full carbon analysis of our operations, looking for both environmental and business benefits.
As a result of this work we now have a detailed 3 year implementation plan which will be progressively rolled out throughout the business commencing in 2008.
The Group continues to be supported by the Carbon Trust and LowC to implement a range of measures focused on our most energy intensive activities, including: the piloting of an energy efficient refurbishment programme in the pub estate, whereby a range of energy efficiency upgrades primarily to boilers and lighting will be delivered through our existing supply chains, delivering significant energy savings.
This will encompass: training of employees and supply chain partners: implementation and integration of innovative energy efficiency model specifications: pre and post-implementation monitoring of performance: integration of the model specification for all of our funded capital investment and refurbishment projects: and an awareness campaign to all licensees.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 9 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6  13 12 07 11:37 Page 10 Corporate Responsibility continuing to develop the advanced maintenance contract for cooling and heating systems in the pub estate, including extensive maintenance to deliver improved energy efficiency e. g. efficiency checks, descaling of hot water heating elements and to ensure that the installation of all new mechanical plant carries the green flag efficiency mark to reduce wasted energy use: providing advice to licensees on the most beneficial energy contracts through an energy broker who is also tasked to provide energy reporting methods to the pub estate and promote energy consciousness and efficiency amongst our licensees: the consideration of a focused awareness programme targeting our licensees who will be able to choose from a range of energy saving improvements for their pub and become involved in their implementation: and undertaking ongoing audits of the pub estate to accurately measure energy efficiency savings and to monitor and report the progress of the above-mentioned initiatives.
Head Office During the year an energy audit was undertaken at our head office to highlight the most important activities that need to be undertaken to reduce carbon emissions and energy costs.
This audit tabled a carbon footprint which showed carbon dioxide emissions were currently 818 metric tonnes of CO, and found that current annual energy 2 consumption levels for our head office were as follows: 2 Electricity: 372 kWh m 2 Gas: 333 kWh m 2 Total: 705 kWh m Since the audit we have drawn up an action plan with a detailed list of initiatives that will target annual reductions of approximately 10% of this carbon footprint over the next 12 months.
It is anticipated that further savings can also be made in future years.
These savings will be targeted by the introduction of: an energy management programme adopting a formal energy policy: the appointment of an energy manager: investment in a monitoring and targeting system: implementation of an energy awareness campaign for all employees: and energy saving technologies, including a full lighting system upgrade.
3 In addition, annual water consumption levels for our head office are currently 1,726 m. The focus for 2008 is to capitalise on the substantial carbon saving opportunities identified in 2007, and to explore in detail the possibility of introducing an on-site renewable energy programme to further reduce our direct business carbon impacts.
ii Other Environmental Issues At head office materials continue to be recycled where possible and paper is sourced from a renewable and sustainable source.
Upon acquiring the building in 2002, the Group complied with the local planning authoritys environmental policy relating to the construction, occupation and utilisation of office facilities.
This included the provision of a transport policy aimed at reducing the demand for car parking and promoting employee behaviour consistent with local planning, environment and social policy.
The Group supports home working where appropriate.
10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6 144  13 12 07 11:37 Page 11 Corporate Responsibility The head office catering facility uses kitchen equipment carrying the green flagged efficiency rating.
Wherever, possible biodegradable materials are used in its operation.
During the year, and in accordance with our obligations under the Packaging Waste Regulations, our compliance manager recycled approximately 4,389 metric tonnes of glass, paper and plastic used in the pub estate by our licensees.
The Community and Social Issues The Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned with the interests of local communities and consumers.
In this regard, the Group seeks to ensure that its pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and promote the positive contributions that pubs make to their local communities.
The Group continues to work extensively with licensees, local authorities and local communities to ensure that licensing hours and conditions are appropriate and take account of the opportunities and interests of all parties.
Through its membership of the BBPA, the Group continues to engage with Government departments within the Home Office and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, to promote understanding of, and compliance with, the licensing regime.
A ban on smoking in public places was introduced across England and Wales in 2007.
The Group works extensively with licensees to provide solutions in pubs which balance the interest of smokers and non-smokers alike.
The Groups capital investment programme continues to reflect opportunities to enhance the retail proposition of pubs in the post-ban era.
In addition: the Group is committed to high standards of customer service to its licensees and gives serious consideration to complaints from the local community.
Procedures are in place to ensure disputes are monitored and dealt with quickly: training is arranged to provide support to our licensees and to develop business potential: the Group has recently revised and updated its Code of Practice with benchmarked status from the BII Benchmarking and Accreditation Services under which the Group manages its relationships with licensees, and includes provisions in its agreements with licensees requiring licensed premises to be operated in a responsible manner: and the Group seeks to ensure that appropriate and reasonable actions have been implemented across the pub estate to ensure its licensees comply with the Disability Discrimination legislation.
Finally, as a corporate sponsor we continue to support the philosophy and ethos of The Prince of Waless Pub is the Hub campaign, encouraging rural licensees to diversify and deliver a wider range of services to the communities they serve, ensuring that the pub becomes the heart of the community and continues to thrive as a vital part of village life.
During the year a number of our licensees have developed a range of such services including the use of their properties as village shops and post offices.
Responsible Drinking The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have detrimental effects on the social structures of local communities.
The Group recognises that pub licensees, supermarkets, off-licences, the Government and the consumer all have responsibilities as regards the promotion and management of a responsible drinking environment.
We seek to be responsible by the following means: Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2007 11 14414 06 12 2007 Proof 6  13 12 07 11:37 Page 12 Corporate Responsibility as a voluntary contributor to the funding of the Drinkaware Trust, a new body which brings together industry, charities, lobby groups, medical professionals and experts in the field to address alcohol misuse and promote sensible drinking across the UK: being a signatory to the Portman Groups Code of Practice, and working proactively with drinks suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing and packaging regime: actively promoting the Proof of Age Card Scheme to all licensees and providing details of a variety of schemes to all new licensees to enable them to operate the scheme in their premises: actively promoting the industrys Challenge 21 campaign and providing campaign materials to every pub: through its membership of the BBPA, the Company has actively participated in discussions with Government in the preparation of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy: continuing to work proactively with local authorities to develop and implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers: and a number of our suppliers have introduced sensible drinking messages on their products.
Future Corporate Responsibility Requirements During the year the Group has engaged the services of Salta Sustainable with a view to developing a long-term approach to effective corporate responsibility strategy and the adoption of good reporting practices during the next two years.
The Board is committed to continuous improvement in its corporate responsibility practices where relevant to its operations and to build appropriate measures and procedures into its existing risk management and governance systems.
