Business Review Corporate Responsibility In pursuing its strategic goal to deliver long-term value to The Company has designed procedures and developed a shareholders, Filtrona recognises the significance of culture which aims for continuous improvement in all areas of environmental, social and governance matters and is health and safety, with the sharing of best practice in addition committed to being a responsible corporate citizen in the to strict compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The workplace, marketplace, environment and community.
The degree of autonomy afforded to local management allows Companys risk management processes include the them to set the agenda best suited to the requirements of consideration of the impact of corporate responsibility issues individual businesses, but subject always to the proper on Filtronas performance.
In support of its business plans to implementation of the core health and safety policies and drive long-term profitable growth, Filtronas corporate principles which Filtrona has adopted.
responsibility initiatives seek to maintain the support of its employees, customers and suppliers and assist in the Local initiatives have been implemented such as Fire in the sustainability of the environment and communities within Hole and Race for Safety within the Cigarette Filters division, which its international operations are conducted.
whilst at Filtrona Fibertec a global contest was launched which saw the adoption of an employees safety slogan Think The Filtrona Values set out on page 7 of this Report form the Safety Locally, Zero Accidents Globally.
These initiatives, core of the Companys adoption of the highest standards of which reflect the input of employees who are encouraged to business ethics and integrity to underpin its relationships with identify improvements in the Companys operations, have both internal and external stakeholders.
Filtrona believes that proved very successful both in improving the safety record the responsible winning culture developed with the adoption and strengthening the engagement of employees.
of those values at each of its international sites adds its own value to the Companys reputation and performance.
The Company aims to continuously improve its health and safety record and ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, Filtrona is a member of the FTSE4Good Index which is assess and drive performance.
The embedding of the group designed to measure the performance of companies striving management system has enabled the implementation of an to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility extensive programme of active monitoring that measures in standards and to facilitate investment in those companies greater detail than ever before exactly how successful the where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing factor Company is in managing the safety of its workplaces.
The in an investors decision-making process.
The FTSE4Good Company believes that the additional visibility on relevant Committee annually reviews the members for continual performance statistics has secured the increased focus of compliance with the criteria as laid down by the Committee.
management on all health and safety issues.
The FTSE4Good Index was set up in 1991 and is compiled by The Filtrona Health, Safety & Environmental HS&E Council is the Ethical Investment Research and Information Service, an an international body which includes senior operating independent research company.
This Index was supported management from all divisions.
This body is responsible for by UNICEF on conception and the link continues with all reviewing the HS&E performance, developing appropriate licensing profits being donated to UNICEF.
standards and procedures and overseeing the Companys internal HS&E auditing process.
Workplace Health and safety The Company manages occupational health by identifying Filtronas overriding commitment in the workplace is to the key risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, health and safety of its employees and all those who visit the where appropriate, implementing health surveillance Companys operations.
The Board provides health and safety programmes.
The Company is committed to achieving, at all leadership and the Chief Executive has primary responsibility principal manufacturing sites, accreditation to Occupational for setting the overriding health and safety goals within which Health & Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 by the the detailed policies operate and for reviewing progress end of 2008.
As at 31 December 2007, 15 of the Companys against those objectives.
sites 2006: 3 have achieved this objective.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for Filtronas training programmes are designed to secure occupational health and safety management systems.
It has continuous improvement, with the Companys businesses been jointly developed by a number of international third party benefiting from the increase in the capabilities of its certification bodies and national standard bodies in response employees.
At the principal tear tape operation in Nottingham, to the need for companies to meet the health and safety UK, 85 employees successfully completed NVQ level 2 obligations effectively and efficiently.
training in modern manufacturing techniques.
In 2007 the Company established within the Cigarette Filters division a Details of the Companys health and safety performance learning and development centre which offers employees for 2007 can be viewed at the Companys website from around the world technical and professional training for www.
The Company operates Filtrona Group Safety Awards Filtrona seeks to ensure that the training opportunities are whereby sites can achieve gold, silver and bronze status on extended beyond the simple development of skills focused on the basis of annual performance assessed against stringent fulfilling a particular role within the current operations.
The criteria set by the Filtrona HS&E Council.
Learning Centre at the Cigarette Filters facility in Jarrow, UK, continues to be successful in enabling a number of Employees employees, and their families, to complete a variety of With Filtronas focus on operational excellence and the courses.
The Learning Centre was the first in the region, provision of quality products and service to its customers, and one of the first in the UK, to achieve the Matrix Standard, the Companys employees are a vital resource.
The skills a national standard of excellence in delivering high quality and expertise of Filtronas employees drive the innovation information, advice and guidance.
which enables the Company to provide added value to its customers, enhance supply chain logistics with its suppliers In addition to the impact of the training and development and reduce the environmental impact of its operations.
programmes, employee engagement is enhanced by the communication practices which have been adopted across Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair the businesses.
Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employment environment and the opportunity to develop and employees and recognises the importance of communication advance employees subject to personal performance and to good working relationships and practices.
Filtrona encourages its employees to seeks to ensure that employees are informed on matters develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by relating to their employment and on financial and economic providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, aiming factors affecting the businesses.
This is achieved through to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees are management briefings, internal announcements, the Filtrona suitably qualified and experienced.
website and by the distribution of public announcements.
Filtrona Focus, a bi-annual newsletter, seeks to update all Filtronas commitment to the growth of its employees as employees on the Companys progress and key news across individuals, challenging them to fulfil their potential through the various divisions.
Within the individual divisions, various investment in training and personal development, is initiatives focus on the dissemination of important information fundamental to the recruitment, motivation and retention and messages.
of people with the talent and energy to drive Filtronas growth as a profitable business.
The Graduate Development Programme in Europe and North America aims to capture tomorrows managers and the Management Development Programme aims to enhance the skills of todays management team and share knowledge and opportunities across Filtronas global network.
Succession planning and internal recruitment policies look to ensure that the pool of talent within Filtrona is utilised to best effect.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Business Review Corporate Responsibility The Company seeks feedback and ideas from employees to Filtronas Standards of Business Conduct Policy is applicable improve its operations, and forums appropriate to Filtronas to all its businesses around the world.
The policy details the local businesses have been established to allow employees standards expected by Filtrona in the conduct of its business to voice their views on how the Company should fulfil the and its relationships with third parties, including free and fair demands of all its local and international stakeholders.
The competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations Companys European Information and Consultation Forum and provides general guidance on honestly and fairly dealing facilitates the discussion of issues across all of its operations with suppliers, customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to The Company is committed to offering equal opportunities ensure the welfare of workers, and employment conditions to all people without discrimination of any form and within its supply chain, meet or exceed internationally remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, recognised standards.
competitors and local market conditions.
Filtrona conducts its business in a way that seeks to ensure individuals are Environment treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training As part of its risk management process, Filtrona recognises and career development decisions are made on job-based that climate change may be the single most important criteria.
Recruitment procedures avoid the employment of environmental constraint impacting on the future of its under-age staff.
Harassment in any form is not tolerated businesses.
Filtrona considers that it is an important in the workplace.
requirement in managing its global activities properly and efficiently as a responsible corporate citizen to measure, The Company gives full and fair consideration to employment monitor and reduce the impact its businesses may have applications by disabled persons.
In the event of members of on the environment and to develop initiatives to secure staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that its sustainability.
The Company strives to ensure that the training, career development and promotion Filtrona is a member of the Carbon Trust and during 2007 opportunities enjoyed by disabled persons are as far as participated in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project 5 possible identical to that of other employees.
Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights The Carbon Trust is an independent not-for-profit organisation as set down by the UN Declaration and its applicable aiming to create a lasting relationship between shareholders International Labour Organisation conventions.
Operations and corporations regarding the implications for shareholder based in India, Indonesia, Jordan, Thailand and Venezuela value and commercial operations presented by climate are also accredited to SA8000.
Its goal is to facilitate a dialogue, supported by quality information, from which a rational response to climate SA8000 is based on the principles of international human change will emerge.
It measures the performance of companies in eight key areas: child labour, forced labour, health and safety, The Company is committed to continuous improvement in its free association and collective bargaining, discrimination, environmental performance, reducing emissions, preventing disciplinary practices, working hours and compensation.
pollution and improving efficiency in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other raw materials.
Marketplace Filtronas challenge is to determine how, through current Filtronas reputation with its customers and suppliers is based initiatives and current technology and with further projects not only on its quality but also its integrity in the management and future innovation, it can reduce the impact of its of the workplace and the environment and its ethical conduct environmental footprint, within a realistic financial framework in the marketplace.
The development of long-term business and appropriate time frame, and in a manner relevant to, and relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company and meaningful in, the context of the Companys overall strategic such commitments are an important component in the objectives and financial performance.
ongoing success of the Company.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Filtrona seeks to ensure good environmental practice at all Community its locations and in its operational processes and investment Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen decisions.
Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO extends through to the support for appropriate non-political 14001 accredited and all of the Companys European and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations businesses comply with EU and domestic waste and charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries management regulations.
the Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised standard for countries and cultures within which it operates.
In its attempts environmental management systems.
It applies to those to bring benefits back to those communities whose support environmental aspects over which an organisation has control provides a basis for Filtronas success, the Company has and where it can be expected to have an influence.
focused on education and enterprise, health and welfare and the environment.
In pursuit of its aims within the community, A range of initiatives are being undertaken to drive the the Company has developed targeted programmes for local efficiency of Filtronas energy consumption and the Company communities often involving commercial sponsorship and has developed bespoke software to monitor the effect of significant employee engagement through direct involvement such projects, as well as identifying potential future or secondment.
Landfill is being reduced as local initiatives seek to recycle waste materials or Applying Filtronas principles explore alternative uses with third parties.
The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for the implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate As Filtrona looks to target achievable goals within its Responsibility across the Company.
The Director of Group businesses for the improvement of its environmental Human Resources, supported by the Company Secretary performance, the successful implementation of the group and General Counsel is responsible for co-ordinating the management system has enabled the collection and analysis operation of the detailed policies on human resources, health of data.
This system is being used to record raw material and safety, ethics and the environment which support and energy usage and waste levels across the Companys Filtronas commitment to its Corporate Responsibility global operations.
Further details of those policies can be viewed via the Corporate Responsibility page on the Companys website Given the diversity of Filtronas global operations within its at www.
businesses, local management drive environmental performance based on divisional objectives set in accordance with Filtronas environmental policy.
Copies of the policy can be found on the Companys website www.
The Filtrona HS&E Council provides an opportunity to share best environmental practices and waste minimisation initiatives across all sites and has established a group award to recognise the best divisional project initiated in each calendar year which in its opinion delivered the best environmental sustainability in the course of the year.
