70409 Pre 1 31 5 07 15:20 Page 17 Annual report and accounts 200717 Corporate Social Responsibility Winner Winner OIL & GAS INDUSTRY OIL & GAS INDUSTRY Sector Award 2006 Sector Award 2007 Corporate social responsibility matters at Expro.
Our people effectively while also reporting a further reduction in our headline are conscious that what we do has the potential to impact accident rates against prior year.
a wide range of stakeholders and our everyday decisions need to take account of this.
We operate in over 50 countries, often For the third year running the Group has been recognised with a performing our work in remote areas and at worksites controlled significant safety award from the Royal Society for the Prevention by our customers or others.
In this commercial environment, of Accidents RoSPA.
Expro were awarded the Oil and Gas sector it requires clear leadership, accountabilities, effective processes, award for outstanding performance, a further demonstration of training and good communication to deliver our services in how seriously it takes health and safety management.
In short, it takes planning and teamwork.
For the fifth consecutive year we can report no significant environmental spills and, in a year of increased operational activity, This is our fifth year of producing a Corporate Social we have continued to maintain our focus on reducing resource Responsibility Report separate to this Annual Report.
At the usage and waste generation.
Having completed a major outset, the ethics and values enshrined in Social Responsibility acquisition in the year, we are working with these new areas of the were so embedded in our culture that we tended to think of them business to further develop environmental improvement plans.
Over time, we have examined those areas of our business impacting most significantly on our social People are core to our business and we focus on their performance and focused our efforts on measurement and development during the year within the CSR report.
Further improvement in those areas.
increase in our delivery of training and in employee diversity have been significant milestones in the year.
For the last seven consecutive years we have reported the improvements in our headline safety performance.
For the last Looking forward, we have set out a new vision for the future in our three years Expro has reported accident rates which are lower Excellence in Operations strategy.
This links the key aims than the industry benchmark.
With the acquisition of Power Well of people development, customer care and service quality into Services midway through the year, we anticipated a dilution in our one cohesive programme.
We will use this to further progress our safety efforts while the new business was absorbed.
Through CSR performance and to ensure that we maintain the high effective planning, we have been able to integrate this new team standards expected by all our stakeholders.
The Group has not been prosecuted or fined during the period and has had no whistleblowing incidents.
Actual Actual Actual Actual OGP Measure Description 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 Benchmark Lost Time Injury Frequency Number of LTIs per million man hours worked 1.2 1.1 0.5 0.4 1.19 Total Recordable Number of injurious injuries Case Frequency per million man hours worked 3.7 3.5 2.2 1.6 3.91 Significant Spills Spills reaching the environment Nil Nil Nil Nil N A Industry Benchmark figures provided by International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, 2005 Safety Performance Indicators, May 2006
