Corporate social responsibility report: Social and ethical policy and practice FKI recognises that the practice of sound social and Full compliance with Health and Safety regulations ethical responsibility will deliver competitive advantage Safeguarding and maximising the use of Group property and contribute to the Groups long-term success.
The greatest contribution that the Group makes in Protection of confidential information this area comes from the wealth created by maintaining Communication of policies to appropriate stakeholders employment, both within the Group and through its 1 supply network.
In addition to FKIs policy, 58% [66%] of business units operate their own supplementary social and ethical policy, Social and ethical policy which covers 91% of employees.
These policies are The FKI social and ethical policy is applied in all regularly reviewed and updated and are shaped to meet businesses worldwide and acts as a reference point to the needs of individual businesses.
The vast majority of guide employees and other stakeholders on the aspects FKI business units also have an individual member of that drive the conduct of FKIs business relationships.
staff who is responsible for social and ethical matters.
The policy contains detailed provisions covering the The Groups social and ethical policy states that it following aspects: respects the legal right of employees to membership of Standard of conduct to be followed in dealing trade unions: 32% of its workforce is unionised and 45% with employees and everyone with whom the are covered by collective agreements.
In early 2005, the Group has relationships Energy Technology European Works Council was set up to represent European-based businesses within the Energy Compliance with the law and applicable regulations Technology group.
The Council held its second annual Sound employment policies, which take account of meeting in July 2006.
The CEO briefed the Council labour rights and conventions, include recruitment, on Group Strategy and the role played by each Energy employment, promotion on fair and legal grounds Technology business in the Groups success.
and prohibit discrimination As part of social and ethical practice, FKI recognises Commitments to customers, partners and suppliers the need to encourage the development of its staff, with around 76% of business units offering an employee Safeguarding of shareholders interests including personal development and review programme, which applying good corporate governance and prohibiting covers 83% of the workforce.
On average, this year, the insider dealing number of training days per employee was five days Utmost integrity in business dealings and absolute boosted by an increasing recommendation of a personal probity in business transactions development and review.
1 Avoidance of conflicts of interest by employees Internal recruitments filled 17% [22%] of the Groups vacancies this year.
As well as direct recruitment Community involvement and charitable assistance opportunities, FKI also operates an engineering graduate Engagement with government and other organisations recruitment programme, which is fully accredited to promote and defend FKIs business interests by the relevant professional bodies.
This scheme was re-accredited by IMECHE in 2007 for the next five Continuous improvements in managing its years.
Several businesses also offer comprehensive environmental impact apprenticeship programmes.
91% 83% of employees covered by of employees are offered a supplementary social and personal development review ethical policy 1 22 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005 06.
Independent audits ensuring FKI remains progressive in Health and Safety policy and practice have been extended globally Charity and community Social and ethical compliance 1 FKI businesses are encouraged to support the local This year, there were two [four] complaints made communities in which they operate.
FKI also supports against FKI businesses, one of which involved two charitable activities and donations to both local and individual complaints pending further investigation.
international causes through its corporate donations The other allegation is currently active and pending 1 policy, which includes the potential for funds raised mediation.
There were five [five] cases of disciplinary by employees for charitable causes to be matched by action against employees.
One individual case involved donations from their business or Group.
three employees who each received verbal reprimands: another case involved two employees where verbal and 1 This year 68% [68%] of FKIs businesses, representing 74% written reprimands were issued respectively.
Two cases are of employees, participated in local community activities, pending further investigations and the final case resulted in charitable events or made charitable donations.
A large a dismissal due to a breach of social and ethical policy.
number of these businesses supported development of the local community, donating time and money to local Auditing for compliance charities, schools, hospitals and sports teams etc.
FKI implemented a policy of peer auditing in 2004 to A large percentage of FKIs US-based businesses facilitate accelerated continuous improvement in social also support United Way, a charity which includes and ethical policy and practice, whereby business units around 1,350 community-based organisations run are audited by their peers to assess the compliance with by local volunteers.
This support included voluntary Group policy at operating business level.
Three businesses deductions from employee wages and locally organised were audited in 2006 07 and no major non-compliance fundraising events.
All minor non-compliance issues were resolved within the agreed timescales.
FKI also makes annual contributions to the Headstart scheme, part of The Engineering Development Trust The FKI human resources network which in turn is a component of The Royal Academy A Group-wide network of people involved in human of Engineerings Best programme.
The Headstart scheme resource operations was established during 2004 05. promotes careers in science and engineering to 16-17 This network has continued to be active in 2006 07 as a year olds through university-based, residential courses.
vehicle for more effective and consistent implementation The Group is also becoming more directly involved of Group policies and continues to uphold FKIs with Headstart through its graduate scheme, providing commitment to CSR.
volunteer graduates to speak at a number of the residential courses.
FKI embraces opportunities like this to re-invest in the engineering graduates of the future.
Princes Trust Challenge three Brush Traction Site Welfare Fund Hickory Hardware connected with Bridon America gave monetary graduates with a sponsorship of has donated 500 each to six local United Way of Middle Tennessee donations to the American Cancer 2,300 each from FKI, took part part in charities in the last year.
while moving into its new location Society, United Way, and Independent the Scandinavian three peaks challenge in Nashville and conducted a pledge College Fund.
The company also Harrington Generators have loaned in September 2006.
The challenge campaign in which the company has a membership with the local generators to several local charity events.
was to climb three peaks in Norway, matched employee contributions: Chamber of Commerce and the Sweden and Finland in just four days Marelli Motori maintains good over $5,000 USD in pledges were management is involved on the which they came first place and raised relationship with local schools and received.
In the last year, Hickory Board of Directors of NEPIRC over 11,000. public administration through social began an affiliation with the Nashville Northeastern Pennsylvania Industrial events.
They have increased business area Habitat for Humanity where door Resource Center NEPIRC.
Also, the with a local social company that employs and cabinet hardware from excess management is involved on the Board disabled people by outsourcing simple inventory was donated.
Lastly, the of Directors for the County Rail Board, work such as assemblies.
individual locations support local which promotes use, expansion, blood bank drives.
and improvement of local railroads.
1 23 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005 06.
