Corporate social responsibility report: Health and Safety policy and practice FKI Health and Safety roles and responsibilities FKI maintains its commitment to progress towards an accident-free Health and Safety culture.
The diagram opposite illustrates that Health and Safety commitment Accident free culture starts at the highest level of management, with a structure put in place to drive improvement throughout the Groups worldwide operations.
FKI is committed to full compliance with Health and The Guardians FKI Board of Directors Safety regulations in the workplace for all of its employees Strategic control, policy approval, monitoring improvement, worldwide.
Businesses are requested to record all unsafe managing the external interface and providing resources.
acts, near misses and injuries during operations.
These are then analysed to enable continuous improvement through shared knowledge, new initiatives and improved working practices.
Last year a UK Health and Safety audit programme was The Champions Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Operational control, policy development, monitoring performance, launched in conjunction with the Groups insurance prioritising areas for improvement, integrating best practice and reviewing brokers, AON, which resulted in a number of local for compliance.
This audit programme is now being rolled out to many Group businesses worldwide.
Independent audits such as this ensure FKI remains progressive in this area and that Health and Safety systems are improved and maintained in line with best practice.
The Experts Health, Safety and Environmental network Ensuring data integrity, data analysis, translating policy into practice, identifying and sharing best practice, influencing regulatory compliance and disseminating new regulations.
The Enforcers Operational Line Managers Communicating and educating, ensuring compliance with local policy and practice, investigating incidents accidents breaches, eradicating root causes, enforcing agreed standards and performing risk assessments.
The Agents of Change Each Employee Complying with and endorsing all local Health and Safety rules and regulations, reporting incidents and accidents, challenging current practice through identifying to colleagues any ways in which hazards and risks can be reduced or removed.
24 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report Health and Safety policy Health and Safety performance In order to ensure that its workplaces are safe and FKI follows the UK classification of incidents for Group to provide a sustainable healthy working environment reporting.
Health and Safety reporting guidelines are FKI pledges to: communicated to every company to assist them in reporting their performances each year.
All businesses are Consider Health and Safety in all transactions also aware of local legislation and reporting mechanisms Meet or exceed current Health and Safety legislation and often report under both sets of procedures.
Introduce and maintain good working practices The chart on page 26 plots the total number of recorded incidents and occurrences and the Group Accident Develop effective Health and Safety procedures Frequency Rate respectively.
The Accident Frequency including identifying and assigning responsibilities Rate AFR is defined as the average number of accidents within each organisation per 100,000 hours worked.
Dangerous Occurrences, Make employees aware of potential risks, hazards, which are incidents that are reported but have not resulted safe systems of working, operating procedures and in an accident, will continue to be recorded by businesses their responsibilities and statutory obligations: and the data utilised internally to help remove the root cause of incidences.
Provide appropriate training This year has seen a continued decrease in the total Continually improve systems for recording, reporting number of actual accidents, that is, major accidents, and analysing accidents and incidents work related illnesses and other reportable accidents, Set and publish objectives and targets and monitor hence a reduction in the Groups AFR.
There has also progress and assess performance in relation to been an improvement in the Groups AFR.
There was these targets no workplace fatalities reported in this year.
This policy is in operation in all FKI businesses globally.
A dedicated Health and Safety committee is set up in a large proportion of FKI businesses, representing 99% of the workforce.
These committees are tasked with driving down accident rates and ensuring that the working environment remains safe for all personnel.
1 Detailed performance is measured in 77% [89%] of FKI businesses: covering 94% of employees and all businesses are currently practicing the setting of improvement targets.
1 25 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2005 06.
Number of incidences Other reportable incident Work related illness Dangerous occurence Major incident Accident frequency rate 324 77 26 38 313 68 24 39 250 52 15 37 225 48 7 30 216 49 32 19 220 25 9 11 1.50 1.42 1.34 1.26 1.26 1.09 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Relative performance standards There has also been a reduction in the number of dangerous occurrences in the last year.
In all cases, As part of FKIs drive towards an accident-free culture, reported dangerous occurrences are investigated and all business units have been encouraged to identify a preventative measures applied.
It is by the recording of comparative industry sector accident frequency rate dangerous occurrences and their subsequent resolution AFR as an external benchmark for Health and Safety that FKI aims to reduce the number of future incidents performance.
Currently over half of the business units and injuries and hence continue to move towards its have identified a target AFR, 12% more than last year goal of an accident-free culture.
and of these 68% have successfully achieved or bettered Within the Group, four units received fines in relation this target.
FKI will continue to encourage external to breaches in Health and Safety regulations following benchmarking with the aim of accelerating improvements four Health and Safety related convictions.
A fifth fine in all areas of Health and Safety.
was as a result of a Health and Safety audit following Target setting an accident two years ago.
The company in question has implemented the required changes in line with the audit In 2006, the Group moved away from setting a universal recommendations and these have been accepted.
Both 1% improvement target for its Health, Safety and policy and practice is been reviewed by all the units in Environmental performance.
In its place, the Group order to prevent recurrence.
established with each business, targets for 2006 07 based upon previous actual performance.
This led to much more ambitious target setting in 2006 07.
This actual performance based target setting will also be applied in future years.
26 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report
