Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Our aims are to provide excellent service to our customers, to provide a safe Personnel working environment for our employees and to create places where people A new Group health and safety manager was appointed in March 2007 and will aspire to live.
is responsible for driving strategic safety management and sharing of best safety practices across all of the businesses within the Group.
Scottish port The Company has been a member of the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe Index operations appointed a new health and safety manager in May 2007 with since October 2003, membership being available only to companies with the a wide health and safety management career background including a period very highest standards and practice in the three areas of business ethics, as a health and safety executive eld inspector.
In October 2007 the Port of human resources and the environment.
The Company is also a constituent Tilbury enlarged its health and safety department with the appointment member of the FTSE 4 Good Index.
of a member of the Forth Ports graduate training programme to the position of safety, health and environment officer.
Health and safety As a Group, the health and safety of our employees, visitors, contractors Scottish Port Operations and members of the public is of the highest importance.
Our safety culture is Safety seminars were held in relation to the Scottish port operations in underpinned by the application of five Strategic Safety Drivers: Simplication, February and September, attended by the Scottish Ports Director, and senior Education, Engineering, Engagement and Enforcement.
A Group Strategic management and safety representatives, as well as external participants from Health and Safety Plan for 2008-2010 was presented to the Board in August trade unions.
The seminars covered a number of issues including slips, trips 2007.
The plan, detailing objectives and targets for safety performance and and falls, working near water, engineering safety, workplace transport and line improvement, has been published and delivery against the targets is handling.
Following the meetings action plans were developed which included monitored.
reviews of risk assessments and the creation of a work transport DVD.
Group Accident Statistics We reported last year that behavioural safety would be a particular focus for Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 2007.
The February safety committee seminar was attended by external RIDDOR consultants with expertise in behavioural safety.
Following this a behavioural safety programme was introduced which has as its aim the attainment of an 2007 2006 improved safety culture based on improving safety performance through All RIDDOR All RIDDOR addressing attitudes and mindsets.
Phase 1 of the programme was concluded Reportable Accidents Reportable Accidents in 2007 with seven behavioural safety workshops having been held with over includes Major Injuries includes Major Injuries % of change 100 members of staff from all Scottish ports attending.
Each member of staff 35 36 3% agreed to a personal action plan which was reviewed at further workshops held in October.
The feedback from these workshops will be used in 2008 in 2007 2006 phase 2 of the programme with the introduction of behavioural safety forums.
All RIDDOR All RIDDOR Major Injury Major Injury Reportable Accidents Reportable Accidents % of change 2 4 50% 2007 2006 All Accidents All Accidents % of change 139 157 11% Group Five Year Trend Analysis 2007 2003 RIDDOR RIDDOR Reportable Accidents Reportable Accidents % of change 35 58 40% 2007 2003 All Accidents All Accidents % of change 139 217 36% Corporate Social Responsibility continued Port of Tilbury Property Division Port of Tilbury and UNITE have agreed and signed a Safety Partnership A site co-ordination manual for Western Harbour and Granton has been Agreement for 2008-09.
This document details the commitment of both produced by the property team, with the intention of promoting construction parties to further improving safety standards and reducing accident rates systems that implement best practices to provide a clean, efficient and safe by delivering a series of objectives and initiatives.
The agreement also details building environment.
both parties commitment to delivering the objectives identied by the Safer Ports Initiative 2.
In total during 2007 there were 4 accidents incidents that were reportable by our principal contractor to the HSE under the RIDDOR 1995 Regulations.
The second annual Port of Tilbury Safety, Health and Environmental forum This led to a 2007 Accident Frequency Rate of 0.80.
The latest available was held in March 2007.
The event was attended by a cross section of the construction industry statistics released by the Health and Safety Executive port including port management, port staff and health & safety representatives.
show a 3 year average Accident Frequency Rate for the industry in general The event focused on the themes of accident reduction, implementation to be 1.67. of Safer Ports Initiative 2 and sustainable improvement in health and safety performance and monitoring in partnership with the trade union health and The Property Division continues to promote Continuing Professional safety representatives.
Development CPD for all staff by hosting a series of presentations and lectures which covered a diverse range of subjects such as the Construction The Port of Tilbury T&GWU partnership health and safety awareness training Design and Management Regulations 2007. programme has continued throughout the year with the Enterprise Distribution Audit Centre EDC and grain and bulks asset employees all attending a one day workshop with a tutor from the London Metropolitan University.
The Group continues to use a hierarchical system of internal and external process safety audits to measure, monitor and demonstrate compliance In readiness for the introduction on 1st July 2007 of the Smoke Free with all relevant health and safety legislation and internal safety management Workplace Regulations 2007, a thorough review of all existing arrangements procedures.
was undertaken to ensure compliance.
This was satisfactorily concluded in June 2007.
The second British Safety Council 5 star audit at Port of Tilbury was undertaken over 5 days in June 2007 and we are pleased to report that Following a strategic review, it has been decided to introduce an Integrated a score was achieved which merited a further 5 star award.
The Certicate Management System IMS within Port of Tilbury integrating three technical was presented to the Company at a ceremony held at Lords Cricket Ground disciplines namely Safety and Health, Environment and Quality SHEQ.
This will align the current port accreditations to the international standards for Quality Management BSEN ISO 9001, Environmental Management Scottish port operations 5 star audit was re-scheduled from November 2007 ISO 14001 and Health and Safety Management OHSAS 18001. to February 2008 to allow the new health and safety team to further develop the safety management systems and it is pleasing to note that after a four day Port of Tilbury continues to be involved in all core activities of Port Skills and British Safety Council Audit in February 2008 the Scottish ports operation also Safety Limited PSSL including attendance at the national accident prevention achieved a 5 star award.
ofcers meetings and other special work groups.
In addition, Perry Glading, Managing Director, Port of Tilbury continues to be a member of the PSSL management board.
PSSL is the port industry body with a remit to work with its subscribers and other external agencies on promoting high standards of health and safety and skills competence within the port industry.
Following the national launch of the Safer Ports Initiative 2 in 2006, Port of Tilbury developed a matrix table containing 15 minimum health and safety criteria.
All asset areas and departments have been subject to internal verication in order to ensure that these criteria are embedded within the business.
This initiative was concluded in June 2007 and the table continues to provide an audit tool to ensure that compliance is being sustained.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 24 25 Employees Our commitment to the Environment The main potential environmental impacts associated from our Group activities Industrial Relations and Manpower fall under the following broad categories: Our employees play a key role in the success of the Group.
We have a stable workforce with relatively low turnover.
Our total employee headcount rose Noise during 2007, primarily due to the purchase of Nordic.
At the year end the Dust air quality total employee headcount was as follows: Water pollution Waste Scottish Operation 525 Conservation Tilbury 611 Climate change Nordic 110 Total Group 1,246 The Group is committed to managing its ports, regeneration and recycling activities so as to limit insofar as practicable any adverse effects on the More than forty per cent of the Groups employees have more than ten years of environment.
service and a third have over twenty years of service.
Each year the Board hosts a long service awards dinner for those employees with twenty five years service.
Each of our ports liaises with tenants, customers, regulators and other key stakeholders to communicate and share information on environmental and We recognise the importance and value to our business of good industrial associated topics.
These issues could include new initiatives, legislative relations and there have been no days lost to industrial dispute since 1989. changes and associated issues such as safety, security or port development.
Employee Involvement Our property division continues to be committed to sustainable development The group wide information and consultation forums continue to provide across our sites, evidenced by the continued provision of land for affordable great benets and are held at both Group and local levels.
At these meetings housing with two sites for up to 234 apartments being sold to Port of Leith employees are encouraged to contribute ideas which would benefit our Housing Association in 2007.
Forth Ports is now the largest contributor of employees and our business.
In 2007 a number of employees suggested affordable housing in Edinburgh.
that the Company adopt the Governments Childcare Voucher Scheme and this was assessed and subsequently implemented.
Following the acquisition of Nordic Recycling as part of the acquisition of Nordic we are actively examining the opportunities to increase the recycling In addition, the regular meetings with the recognised Trade Unions where capability of both our businesses and those of our customers.
matters of common interest are discussed continue to take place.
Environment issues and performance against targets are reported on and Training and Development discussed at the Environmental Management Committee Meetings in Tilbury Training continues to be a priority for the Group for all levels of staff.
This and in Scotland at operational management meetings.
years topics ranged from management training and development, through health and safety, including behavioural safety workshops, to training in the We reported last year that the Group had appointed the Edinburgh Centre safe and efficient working of plant and the impact of the new Construct Design for Carbon Management ECCM to undertake a climate change impact and Management Regulations.
During the year the Group recruited a further assessment for the year 2006 covering all group companies.
As a result of two graduates to our graduate training scheme.
the studys findings, we have begun an energy efficiency trial in one of our ofces Forth and Tay Navigation Service in Grangemouth.
An energy During 2007 there were 485 courses 2006 521 for 1,280 employees in champion has been appointed and tasked with monitoring energy use in the Scotland 2006 1,313 and 1,152 courses 2006 776 for 2,170 employees building, encouraging behavioural change and examining investment options 2006 2,081 in Tilbury.
As Nordic did not become part of the Group until to improve efficiency.
Whilst this initiative is still in its infancy, the early signs June 2007 we are unable to report comparable gures for the year.
As part are very encouraging with a considerable drop in energy consumption of our commitment to the development of our workforce we continue to through behavioural change evident in the meter readings in the last quarter support Vocational Qualications, particularly Level 2 Cargo Operations of the year.
It is intended to extend this initiative throughout the Group in 2008. for our port operators.
During 2008 we aim to work with the Carbon Trust to identify if there are areas where further savings could be made.
During the year South Tyneside College completed the bespoke new simulator system for training pilots and tug crews for both the Rivers Forth and Tay.
The system and training tool is state of the art, allowing pilots and other marine personnel to simulate manoeuvring vessels of any size anywhere in our harbour area under any sea and weather conditions.
The package also allows the tug crews to simulate towage either individually, or as part of a larger simulation of a vessel voyage in the harbour areas.
It is proposed in the coming year that training on this system will be extended to VTS ofcers with simulation of river operations.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued Transport Energy We continue to promote the movement of goods via shipping through our In the report last year we announced that there were a number of renewable ports.
The movement of goods via water remains more environmentally initiatives under review across the Group.
sustainable than moving goods via land through road or rail.
Ships are more fuel efficient per tonne of cargo handled than road or rail and they do not Following that review it was decided to focus on on-site renewable energy contribute to the congestion issues on our road network.
In Scotland, Port of Dundee was identied as having potential by ship reduces fuel use and therefore emissions, congestion and indeed the as a renewable energy hub and the port has received a number of inquiries frequency of maintenance on the road network, thereby benefiting the from customers involved in both manufacture of renewables infrastructure economy as well as the environment.
With rising fuel costs and the growing awareness of the impact of transport Tilbury has made significant progress on two planning applications for on the environment our customers are also focussing much more on the renewables generation within the port.
The first of these is an application by sustainability of their businesses and it is becoming a key performance the port for the installation of four wind turbines capable of generating 24,710 indicator in projects such as the London Olympics.
The Olympic project in mWh of electricity representing approximately 30 per cent of the ports current particular provides an excellent opportunity for Port of Tilbury to play a pivotal electricity requirements.
Tilbury is also supporting an application by Tilbury role in achieving the UK Governments stated aim of making the 2012 Green Power on the site of one of our customers, Cargill plc, to convert their Olympics the Green Games.
Tilbury is working closely with the Olympic facility at Tilbury to an energy from waste plant.
Both of these applications are Delivery Authority and has already provided space for the Green Barge expected to be heard in the first half of 2008.
Companys barge terminal for the movement of construction materials to and from the Olympic site.
The property division is also continuing work, as part of the masterplanning for the LDDF, on identifying sources of on-site generation which would be The majority of our ports have rail handling facilities and we have seen growth appropriate for, and in keeping with, the Masterplan.
in rail trafc, particularly in Grangemouth, related to containers.
2007 saw almost a tenfold increase in containers entering the port from the rail link when Recycling compared to 2004.
All of the coal for Cockenzie Power Station continues to be The acquisition in July 2007 of Nordic Recycling Limited NRL, which transported from Leith via train, and over the course of the year this amounted operates a MRF at Tilbury and a paper recycling operation at Chatham, to 1.3 million tonnes of coal, which would otherwise have travelled by road provides a number of exciting opportunities for the Group.
In addition to through North Edinburgh.
the potential to offer recycling services to both new and existing customers in both ports and property, NRLs expertise is available to all Group companies At the Port of Rosyth, the new spine road, which links the port with the main in striving to further improve our recycling rates.
M90 motorway and the Forth Road Bridge, was opened in February by the Prime Minister, the Rt Hon Gordon Brown MP.
This new road has allowed The initiatives we reported last year are all continuing with substantial benets trafc to enter the port from the M90 without having to travel through the to the Group.
The Port of Tilbury recycling scheme continues to be a success town of Rosyth.
and has been extended to segregate waste such as timber to ensure it is recycled and not disposed to landll and all paper and cardboard is collected We reported last year that Forth Ports is part of a group, including SESTRANS, and recycled without cost.
In addition Tilbury is introducing a compactor to and Fife and Edinburgh Councils, which had appointed Hyder Consulting to compress waste reducing the number of collections by 150 each year saving carry out a feasibility study on a cross-Forth ferry between Fife and Edinburgh.
Last year we advised that a recycling initiative was being The study was completed in 2007 and concluded that a viable service could examined for Grangemouth.
This has been successfully implemented, be operated between Burntisland and Granton.
It is hoped that with a diverting in the region of 600 kg of waste from landll every month.
The preferred route now identied progress can be made this year towards funding scheme was extended to Leith in November and we expect to roll the project of the infrastructure investment required to allow the service to commence.
out to the remaining Scottish Ports in the course of this year.
89% of the waste In parallel Stagecoach PLC also carried out a 2 week hovercraft trial from by volume uplifted from the Grangemouth logistics shed is now being Kirkcaldy to Portobello in July 2007. recycled through on site sorting by our staff.
We are pleased to report an increase, for the third year running in the number of trees saved by our The property division continues to monitor the options for construction condential shredding service 132 trees across the Scottish ofces, materials to be brought in for Granton, Western Harbour and the Leith Docks compared with 89 in 2006.
Development Framework LDDF via ship rather than road.
The Group also uses recycled aggregate where possible in preference to virgin aggregate, particularly for reclamation or ground level works.
In 2006 we reported the creation of Forthside L. C. and in 2007 through this vehicle 3 the property division utilised 165,000 m of inert recycled materials that would otherwise have gone to landll, in the creation of Western Harbour Park.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26 27 As a responsible landlord we take a rm and pro-active approach to ensuring Environmental Management that our tenants comply with their environmental obligations, including The Port of Tilbury continues to expand its certied ISO 14000:2004 remediation where required.
As a statutory harbour authority we have legal Environmental Management System to new asset areas.
Last year we reported duties regarding monitoring, reporting and prosecuting in relation to acts that the target for 2007 was accreditation for the conventional asset area and of pollution in our waters.
we are delighted to report that this was achieved.
Tilbury remains on target for the last asset area, the Grain and Bulks Division to achieve accreditation Environmental Research in 2008.
Once this is achieved the whole Port of Tilbury will be covered by the Forth Ports have reached an agreement with the University of Dundee to fund ISO 14000:2004 environmental management standard.
a post-graduate research student to examine changes in relative sea level in the Firths of Forth and Tay.
There is little up-to-date data relative to sea level NRL has a target to achieve ISO 14000:2004 accreditation during 2008 for change in the Forth and Tay.
The aim of this project is to identify the historic all recycling activities.
This is a challenging target and one that the team changes in sea level and to use this to identify what changes, if any, we can at Nordic has already begun work on with the help of an external consultant.
expect in the future at our ports.
Similarly the Marine Department in Scotland is working towards ISO 14000:2004 accreditation in 2008.
The Marine Department includes Forth Natural Environment and Tay Navigation Service, Conservancy, Forth Estuary Towage Limited, and the pilot boats.
We are particularly aware of the importance of balancing port and property development with the protection of the habitats and species around our ports.
Following on the work done by the Ecoports Foundation reported on last The designations of protection range from the highest levels of European Protection through Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection year the Scottish Ports operation is currently in the process of appointing a consultant to advise on the introduction of an environmental management Areas to national legislation through the Sites of Special scientific Interest network of sites, and in some cases local designations.
These, along with the system for the rest of the Scottish operations.
impact of the new policies under the Water Framework Directive are regularly considered in port and property development discussions.
As part of the EU marine Consolidated European Reporting System, Safe Sea Net has been developed to cover all European Ports.
The Maritime and As the statutory harbour authority for the Firths of Forth and Tay we Coastguard Agency MCA has developed its links into this system and requires all UK ports to enter safety and environmental information including believe that it is important that we remain members of the Forth Estuary Forum www.
co. uk, and the Tay Estuary Forum waste, dangerous or potentially polluting goods and incident reporting, which then links to the EU database.
The Group already has the capability to provide www.
In Tilbury, as a major port operator on the Thames we are an active partner in the Thames Estuary Partnership this information automatically through Integrated Port Operating System software and has already begun to do so.
The aim of these organisations is to promote the wise and sustainable use of their various geographic areas and our commitment Pollution Avoidance and Control to these organisations includes financial donations, membership fees and in-kind contributions, including ofce accommodation and substantial Our ports handle a diverse range of cargoes, many of which have the potential management time.
to cause damage to the environment if great care is not taken.
Oil is handled at many of our facilities or at facilities within our harbour authority areas.
Forth Ports sit on the Forth Area Advisory Group, which is tasked with Even where oil is not handled as a cargo, oil is present as a fuel or lubricant preparing the river basin management plan for the Forth under the Water for the ships that ply our waters and enter our ports.
Each of our ports has Framework Directive.
As part of the work for the Water Framework Directive, its own oil spill plan or is covered by our overarching framework plan for the we continue to allow the Scottish Environment Protection Agency to place Firth of Forth: Clearwater Forth CF.
During 2007, the CF plan was reviewed monitoring equipment on some of our navigation buoys in the Forth and Tay.
Similarly, the Port of Tilbury oil spill plan has been reviewed and approval from the MCA is expected early in 2008.
Port of Tilbury is a Gold corporate member of the Essex Wildlife Trust which manages 7 visitor centres and 87 nature reserves in the Essex area.
As reported in previous years, regular exercises are carried out to test the robustness of the plans.
This years CF exercise was a major tier 2 exercise Security Exercise Black Bay utilising our Marine Emergency Centre in Grangemouth All of our ports remain compliant with the International Ship and Port Facility to manage the marine elements of the exercise.
This year, for the first time, we had a Forth Ports liaison officer in the shoreline response centre at Fife Security Code ISPS and the associated EU and UK implementing legislation.
All of our port facility security plans have been revised during 2007 in light Councils new emergency centre, thus giving immediate access to the shoreline command and control team and to the Environment Group, which of new guidance from the Department for Transport.
We await proposals from the Department for Transport on the implementation of the EU Port consists of environmental experts from local authorities, Scottish Natural Heritage and the Governments Fisheries Research Laboratory.
also included BP, Briggs Environmental Services, RSPB, SSPCA, the MCA, the Scottish Government and towage companies in the Forth, who provided tugs for exercise purposes.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued Community Engagement Community responsibility and involvement Port of Dundee has again made an in-kind contribution to both the North Carr Education and Unicorn historic vessels berthed in Victoria Dock and the Port of Leith Port of Tilbury has enhanced its partnership agreement with Thurrock and continues to support the historic vessel SS Explorer.
Basildon College and remains a significant business partner in the Academy of Logistics and Transport.
Employees from the port have visited a number The Forth Ports property team participated in the Rob Roy Challenge during of local schools and colleges through the year, including Chafford Hundred June raising 3,500 for a variety of local childrens charities.
This charity fundSchool and the Gateway Academy, contributing to careers events, assisting raising event included a 17-mile walk from Drymen to Callander and a 38-mile with the preparation of CVs and participating in interview training.
cycle from Callander to Kenmore at the north end of Loch Tay.
The property team has been working with Heriot Watt University third year Forth Ports continue to sponsor a number of local community publications students on their external site projects with the Hub at Leith being used as in the Leith area.
The Leith Harbour and Newhaven Community News the model.
Members of the property team stage the site visits and attend is distributed to local residents and is a focus for debate on local issues.
the presentations to assist in judging the quality of the work.
The Leither Magazine is a free community magazine with links to youth organisations, community facilities and local businesses.
Forth Ports also Forth Ports also sponsored the water safety section of a work book published part-sponsored the East Coast Sailing Week, based at Granton.
This year by an organisation called the Risk Workshop which trains school children 75 yachts and 300 sailors took part in the event and there are plans to in the Edinburgh and Lothian area on risk and safety issues.
Performing Arts in the Community Port of Tilbury has supported a variety of charities this year, including St Lukes For the third year running the Tilbury cruise terminal was used to stage a Hospice, Demelza House Childrens Hospice, Tilbury Riverside Project and variety show, based on the Twelve Days of Christmas which ran for ten days the Surestart Childrens centre.
It was produced by the arts team at Thurrock District Council and sponsored by the Port of Tilbury.
The event involved six professional For the third year running, Port of Tilbury sponsored the Mayors Award at actors, with participation from fty community groups and forty five local the Thurrock Council Civic Awards.
The Mayors Award is presented to an schools.
The success of the show was demonstrated by the Port of Tilbury individual who has performed a specic single act of bravery or courage and Thurrock Council winning the Community Award at a prestigious or who has overcome exceptional difficulties.
The nominees are selected ceremony at the Theatre Royal, Bury St Edmunds.
Tilbury has also agreed and chosen by the people of Thurrock.
During the year, the port has continued to host a week long event at the cruise terminal in July 2008 where the its support for a number of community groups and has also extended that Royal Opera House will lead an event designed to encourage community support to a number of new groups, including Thurrock Council Family involvement in music and the performing arts.
Services Christmas Gift appeal, Thurrock District Scouts and Guides, Hawkwell Athletic Football Club, Essex Wildlife Trust, Orsett Show, Thurrock Forth Ports development site opposite Ocean Terminal saw two major events Rugby Club U11s, and the Essex Racial Equality Council.
The first of these was Fuerzabruta which was the most popular event at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
The spectacular show held in a dramatic black tent attracted over 20,000 people over the five week run.
The second event for which Forth Ports was co-sponsor, Twas the Night Before Christmas, was an entertaining retelling of the classic Christmas tale.
It was held on 24th November and attracted nearly 6,000 people.
The show formed part of the Edinburgh Winter Festival and was the first time a winter festival event had been held outside Edinburgh city centre.
Forth Ports were also the headline sponsor for the Leith Festival held between 1st and 10th June.
The festival has a long history spanning over a hundred years and hosted 150 events at 40 locations with over 30,000 people attending the music, drama, theatrical, comedy, sporting and outdoor events.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28 29 Management Involvement Members of the Management Team hold a variety of posts in organisations whose aim is to improve the community, environmental and economic health of the areas in which our business operates: Charles Hammond, the Group Chief Executive, is also the Chairman of Scottish Enterprise, Edinburgh and Lothian SEEL and an advisory member of the board of Scottish Enterprise.
He also sits on the Waterfront Development Partnership Board.
Perry Glading, the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, is the Chairman of the Academy of Transport and Logistics for Thurrock and Thames Gateway represents the Group on the management board of Port Skills and Safety Limited, the organisation which promotes safety in the port industry.
Morag McNeill, the Group Company Secretary, is a member of the Waterfront Recruitment Initiative.
Nathan Thompson, the Managing Director of the Property Division, sits on the Waterfront Development Partnership Board.
Derek McGlashan, the Security and Environment Manager, is a Director of the Forth Estuary Forum, an Honorary Research Fellow in the Department of Geography at the University of Dundee and has been appointed to represent the United Kingdom Major Ports Group on the new Sustainable Seas Task Force, an advisory Group set up by the Environment Secretary of the Scottish Government.
Malcolm Butchert, Project Manager, Property Division, is a member of the Waterfront Recruitment Initiative.
