22 OUR EMPLOYEES ARE THE PUBLIC FACE OF G4S AND WE RECOGNISE AND RESPECT THE VALUE THEY ADD TO THE BUSINESS BY DELIVERING EXCELLENT SERVICE DAY AFTER DAY.
OUR PEOPLE Investing in the workforce we place great focus on Programmes such as these ensure that we grow our WE ARE INVESTING in regional and country attracting and retaining the right talent at all levels, to talent from within local communities alongside an level employee development ensure the continued success of the organisation.
internationally mobile team of top managers, helping programmes around us to develop markets, create new businesses and Our international spread requires great strength and the world.
operate consistently in often challenging circumstances.
depth in management to allow us to continue Succession planning at the most senior levels also operating and growing throughout diverse markets.
WE CONTINUE TO INVEST ensures that our group can continue to lead the In addition to our award-winning international in practical training industry on a global scale, and helps build our leadership development programme, we are investing programmes to help refine reputation as the employer of choice in our industry.
in regional and country level employee development the skills and capability of programmes around the world, such as: At front line level too, we continue to invest in our service delivery staff.
practical training programmes to help refine the skills Asia Pacific tailor-made programmes AS ONE OF THE WORLDS and capability of our service delivery staff.
Through supporting competency development and largest private sector the commitment of our international training reinforcing the G4S values have been introduced employers, we place great community, we share best practice, training materials in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and across the region.
value on creating sustainable and approaches around the world, ensuring that our Sub Saharan Africa the region is launching an employment in diverse employees benefit from the most appropriate training advancement programme for talented African markets.
to enable them to deliver a great service to our managers in association with a premier South customers.
UK the cash services business is using an onRaising standards as one of the worlds largest line learning portal to support continual personal private sector employers, we place great value on development and assist managers at various creating sustainable employment in diverse markets, levels to achieve recognised management thereby contributing to the communities in which qualifications.
Global Learning Portal this portal facilitates Our success has brought with it the responsibility the sharing of learning and expertise between to lead employment practices wherever we operate, businesses on a global basis.
The group has many setting the standards to which other employers in centres of excellence for operational, supervisory our industry aspire.
and management learning within G4S and these centres have provided materials for the portal.
We are committed to continually raising these For example, Wackenhut in the US is already high standards and ensuring that the way we acknowledged for the quality of training it operate delivers both commercial returns and a Operating provides for employees and our business in India positive result for our employees and their families.
is able to share many of its specialist programmes.
& Financial Review continued G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 23 This commitment to being a good employer means we also insist that new recruits have RIGOROUS PREAND POSTthe necessary qualities to be trustworthy and reliable, helping safeguard the safety of their EMPLOYMENT SCREENING colleagues as well as our customers.
Rigorous preand post-employment screening practices are therefore embedded A NUMBER OF KEY INITIATIVES throughout our businesses, and we continue to work with governments and industry bodies were launched at our to drive up standards in many countries around the world.
European Works Council to ensure that we work Employee representation our drive to improve performance across the industry is aided cooperatively on the matters by our positive relationships with trade unions and other employee representatives.
that can affect our staff most of all.
We are proud that we are able to work hand in hand with these bodies to positively influence the whole sector, as well as working together on employee relations programmes ACROSS THE GROUP within G4S.
WE ENGAGE For example, in 2007 a number of key initiatives were launched at our European Works in genuine and active social Council to ensure that we work collaboratively on the matters that can affect our staff most dialogue with a wide range of all, such as training, health & safety and employee engagement.
Our commitment to building constructive relationships with union and other employee representatives is further demonstrated by our public commitment to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Thus, in accordance with local legislation and practice, we respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, employment is freely chosen, with no use of forced or child labour, and we do not discriminate on the basis of gender, colour, ethnicity, culture, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Across the group we engage in genuine and active social dialogue with a wide range of social partners, and have over 70 formal relationships currently in place with trade unions around the world.
We are proud of our position as the most unionised private sector business in the UK and regularly negotiate new trade union agreements which are in the interest of our employees, our customers and our organisation.
In a people intensive business such as ours, having a motivated, capable workforce who are proud to work for G4S will continue to be one of our groups aims.
We have made great strides forward in these areas over recent years and will continue to build on the excellent people management practices which are in place across the group.
