24 G4S RECOGNISES ITS ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, INVESTORS, LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS.
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Background As a major global organisation, G4S This policy is communicated to managers throughout plays a significant role in the lives of hundreds of the group and, on an annual basis, they are required thousands of people both directly through to declare individually their personal commitment by employment and indirectly through its approach to endorsing the policy and confirming compliance the communities in which it operates.
within their own area of responsibility.
We take that role very seriously and encourage all of Strict adherence to the principles of the business our businesses to actively raise standards and invest ethics policy is required of all group employees.
in the communities in which they operate.
At a Compliance with the policy is monitored through our group level, we also invest in programmes which internal and external audit functions and through the contribute positively to the community and groups whistle-blowing facilities.
environment and we set international standards and We take our responsibilities in this area very policies to which our businesses must operate.
seriously and take swift and robust action against any Business Ethics G4S is committed to operating to non-compliance.
the highest levels of business ethics throughout its operations.
We have an extensive business ethics policy which describes the companys minimum expected standards in a wide range of areas such as: Human rights The environment Community involvement Bribery and corruption Compliance with the law Accounting standards National regulations and guidelines ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Equal opportunities Health & safety Whistle-blowing and complaints Operating & Financial Review continued G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 25 Environment Whilst the service industry is not a sector which has a Employee Welfare & Support The group has established an employee major impact on the environment, we do realise that G4S has a trust fund which offers monetary support, at the discretion of the funds responsibility to ensure that we play our part in protecting and trustees, to those employees and former employees in need of urgent preserving the environment for future generations.
We already comply with the relevant standards on vehicle emissions and, During 2007, the fund was utilised in a number of ways to provide to date, fuel conservation has been achieved through enhanced vehicle emergency assistance to employees across the group in areas such as: design and regular maintenance.
We also make use of  of political turbulence and violence in Kenya friendly products and services wherever possible.
We are committed to Employees affected by severe flooding in the UK recycling of materials where possible and where the means to recycle Staff who have suffered injury or attack whilst on duty materials exist.
This includes the recycling of cash bags, uniforms, toner Colleagues diagnosed with life-threatening or debilitating diseases cartridges, paper and paper-based products.
Families of employees who have died whilst carrying our their duties We have recently established a working group which is responsible for Relief from the effects of natural disasters in Peru and Jamaica delivering a number of projects related to the groups integrity value.
Investing in the Community Local Initiatives G4S encourages its One such project is to create a G4S international environmental strategy colleagues around the world to invest time and energy in local projects in during 2008. the communities in which they live and work.
We are very proud of the We have started this process by researching what we believe to be the work they do in areas such as: area where the group generates the majority of its carbon emissions, In Guam & Saipan, G4S employees have been involved in a number of largely due to its relatively large heavier vehicle fleets compared to the education initiatives: adopting a public school and carrying out rest of the group our cash services businesses.
This part of the renovations and cleaning: and providing much needed equipment such as organisation represents 43,000 employees, 9,000 vehicles and 22% of desks and cabinets for a high school that sustained significant fire and group revenues.
We have estimated that, in 2007, the carbon emissions of the groups cash G4S Uganda took part in the Habitat for Humanity Uganda initiative and services businesses amounted to some 153t CO emissions per 1m of 2 helped to build homes for orphans and widows who had been caught up revenue.
in the rebel activities in Northern Uganda.
So relentless were the efforts In 2008 we will select a partner organisation, with strong environmental of the G4S team, they made one familys dream come true by building credentials to assist us in accurately establishing the carbon footprint of them a home in just four months.
the group and developing plans and processes for reducing carbon During 2007 the employees of G4S Canada have contributed over emissions across the organisation.
CAN$110,000 to a number of child centred charities across the country, We will aim to set targets and milestones for the group as a whole and giving up their free time to take part in fundraising events and improving will report regularly on our progress against those targets.
We expect the lives of thousands of sick or disadvantaged children.
our strategy to cover key areas such as: In India, G4S supports a wide range of community projects.
One of Fuel consumption these, Future Hope, is a centre which provides a home, education, Energy consumption medical aid and opportunities for street children in Kolkata.
Water usage Recycling Use of  products Use of modern communications to reduce the need for air travel 26 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP continued During August 2007, the employees of G4S Greece Training will continue with further family members provided vital assistance to the community of recruited from the villagers the overall aim is that Peloponnesus when ferocious forest fires took hold those trained will pass on their learning to others of great areas of the country.
G4S organised a year on year allowing this project to last a lifetime.
support mission, providing clothing, first aid, food Jamaica G4S Gifts for Schools Project G4S Gifts supplies and toys for children.
During one for Schools aims to make life a little easier for young 14-day period over 14,000 was raised and 80 boxes people living in some of the most deprived of supplies gathered through the generosity of G4S communities in Jamaica by providing them with employees.
equipment and toys, and ensuring that repairs to In the USA, amongst a whole range of charitable their accommodation take place.
activities, G4S Wackenhut employees take an active G4S Jamaica has provided support to a range of role in mentoring disadvantaged high school students institutions for young people during 2007, such as a through a community programme Take Stock in boys home in a remote area of the country, a hostel Children.
The employees meet with the students for young mothers suffering from HIV, and weekly to review their academic progress and community housing for both able-bodied and encourage them to study and continue to college.
Investing in the Community Major Initiatives One such facility, the Little Angels Basic School, has In 2006 G4S plc commenced five major community seen some substantial improvements through its projects in key markets.
Managers and staff in our involvement with G4S.
G4S Gifts for Schools is developing markets selected projects which they renovating two school buildings used to teach believed would benefit greatly from G4S central physically and mentally handicapped children.
New funding and local G4S business support.
classrooms have been built, repairs undertaken to the The main aim of these projects was to engage our roof, electrical repairs have been made and existing workforce in their local community, give something classrooms and walls are receiving a much needed back to the communities in which we operate and coat of paint.
This project has involved G4S employees provide a long-term stable commitment to key issues.
along with local contractors and the staff who run the facility.
The whole community is joining together We are very proud of our community projects and to make a difference to the lives of young people.
the time and commitment invested in the projects by our colleagues in the different countries.
India G4S School for Under Privileged Children The aim of the G4S School for Under Privileged Malawi G4S Community Trees in Malawi Malawi Children is to provide free education, food and has low levels of energy available to the rural and uniforms to children of working parents allowing urban population, and as a result timber is the main them to continue to work whilst their children are in source of energy for heating and cooking.
In Malawi a place of safety.
over 1.5 million trees are cut down each year and over a million trees are used to convert into In 2007, G4S India engaged with a national NGO, approximately 150,000 tonnes of charcoal.
The Hope Foundation, a charitable organisation involved in providing sustainable education for G4S Community Trees in Malawi was developed to children.
The school will be located in the Papankala provide a sustainable forestry farming project which area of New Delhi.
This area has about 1,500 homes provides for own-grown fuels to Malawians living in a populated by about 15,000 people, with a child rural areas in the Karonga region of Northern Malawi.
Many of these children are not currently at school and the G4S School for 50,000 acacia saplings were placed in the plantation Under Privileged Children will provide their best area in 2007.
With the saplings safely in place, the hope of an education.
projects employees were given training in planting trees, transplanting trees, how to irrigate the soil, how A building has been located and is being redesigned to tend to the trees that were not faring so well and and refurbished to transform it into a school.
G4S finally how to use crop rotation in order to grow staple India will provide books and other school equipment, foods, such as maize, at the same time as the trees.
along with teachers to provide a structured curriculum of education for the children.
The school The villagers involved in the project are earning a will provide education facilities for up to 300 students.
recurring living wage from the G4S Community Trees Operating The schools seven classrooms will each accommodate project and their training in the maintenance and 30-35 pupils.
Additional facilities will incorporate a care of the tress is ongoing, making a real difference staff room, an administration block, a principals office, to the lives of the villagers involved in the project.
& Financial a media room and a computer lab for students.
The Plans are already underway to plant a new crop of aim is to open the school in the second half of 2008. trees in 2008 to ensure the plantation grows further.
Review continued G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 27 China G4S China Jifu Action Project G4S Jifu Action is an The G4S 4teen programme was developed to provide support to educational project in Shanghai, which aims to provide a purposeful aspiring young athletes from developing markets, with a view to them learning environment for the children of the Nanhui Taoyuan Orphans achieving their sporting dream of competing in a future Olympic Games.
Foster Home Center and improved educational facilities for local orphans We worked closely with the National Olympic Committees from in Nanhui.
13 countries Bangladesh, Botswana, Chinese Taipei, Colombia, Estonia, The G4S Jifu Action Project was launched at the end of 2007.
In its first Guatemala, India, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Macau, Nigeria, South Africa, Thailand term of education the project enrolled 12 disabled children.
Two teachers to select 14 young people who would benefit from the programme.
employed by the project provide the children with eight courses including As well as providing financial and other support to the 14 selected Chinese, mathematics, physical education and handicrafts.
The number of athletes, G4S is proud to have attracted a global sporting icon to act as children who are offered this structured education will increase over the a project ambassador and a mentor to the G4S 4teen members.
life of the project with over 80 children benefiting from the G4S Jifu Action Project education programme.
Haile Gebrselassie is a double gold medal winning Olympian and the current world record holder for the Marathon following his win at the Russia G4S for Children Project The G4S for Children Project has Berlin Marathon in October 2007. found a positive way of helping support the work of two childrens homes, which are known as Internats, in the Moscow region, both of Haile has provided inspiration and practical support to the athletes, which care for children with disabilities: the two beneficiaries are the offering his advice to some of the 4teen to help them overcome the Municipal Institution, Special Secondary School Internat for Children barriers they have faced during their training.
He is a national hero for with Sight Disabilities, and the Specialised School Internat for Orphans Ethiopia and in the world of sport and has become an inspirational with Health or Physical Development Disabilities.
member of the G4S global family.
The aim of the G4S for Children Project is to improve the lives of the Future Development launched to the world in June 2007, the G4S children living in the Internats through the provision of specialist 4teen programme continues to grow from strength to strength.
Many education, general equipment and sporting equipment for the of the 4teen have achieved great success at major sporting competitions children at the specialised school.
around the world, some have won national sporting awards, and we expect at least four of the 4teen to represent their countries in the G4S for Children has provided for three classrooms in the special Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008. secondary school and equipment such as interactive white boards, projectors and computers all of which were installed in time for the In addition to financial support, some of the athletes have received very schools 70th anniversary celebrations in March 2008. practical support from their local G4S businesses, such as computer skills training, English language lessons, mentoring and media training G4S Russia hopes its community project will throw a lifeline to many all of which have helped them prepare themselves to compete on the children, giving them the opportunity to pursue lives as adults that are international stage.
G4S has played a significant role in helping these young people to Developing Young People G4S 4teen Engaging a large international become the best they can be in their chosen sport during 2007 and workforce in a major global brand is a challenging target.
In 2007, we is fully committed to continuing to provide practical and financial help launched an international sporting programme for young people, aimed to our very special 14 talented sportsmen and women for the next at inspiring G4S employees throughout the world and making them five years.
proud to be a part of G4S in a way which is not limited to a particular language, race or religion.
