CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OVERVIEW Galliford Try aims to make a positive impact within NUMBER OF ACCIDENT the communities in which it operates by contributing EMPLOYEES INCIDENCE RATE economically, environmentally and socially.
Our vision YEAR END is to be leaders in building partnerships for service excellence.
We recognise that many stakeholders have an interest in our activities, and that achieving our vision is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of our relationship with them.
Our values represent the culture of our business, and are:  to act professionally  to seek innovation and continuous improvement  to empower our people  to conduct our business openly and honestly.
We promote these core principles in all our relationships.
05 06 07 05 06 07 By adopting best practice, by seeking initiatives which add value, by building partnerships with customers and our supply chain, by investing in the training and development of our employees and by treating health, Our performance remains signicantly better than the safety and environmental issues as priorities, we believe Health and Safety Executives HSE reported industry we are working towards the future sustainability of our average, with an accident incidence rate for each business in a responsible way.
However, this did show an increase from 7.1 reported in our previous year, HEALTH AND SAFETY although this increase was largely as a result of incidences Galliford Try believes that the health, safety and welfare of minor accidents such as tripping and manual handling of all stakeholders affected by its operations is of the rather than incidences of more serious accidents.
utmost importance and this is given the highest priority Most regrettably, there was a fatality of an employee within the Group.
Through the leadership of the main of our partner at a joint venture site in Scotland where board, our commitment to delivering industry leading an accident occurred in unloading a vehicle.
This accident performance in health and safety extends to each and is currently under investigation by the HSE, with whom every individual, including our contractors and suppliers.
There was also a relative increase in the number of reportable incidents, totalling Ken Gillespie is the nominated executive board director 100 for the year, due to the collective reporting of the responsible for health, safety and environment, ensuring enlarged Group following the recent acquisitions.
that all relevant matters are appropriately covered in the governance process.
There were no health and safety-related prosecutions during the year, though there was an increase to five We maintain a structured risk-based approach to health from two reportable dangerous occurrences.
All reported and safety management to ensure a positive culture accidents and incidents were investigated fully, supported throughout the organisation.
We have developed an by our professional health and safety team, and the organisational structure appropriate to the particular findings reported back to the relevant business with requirements of the Group, and management teams lessons learnt disseminated as appropriate.
We received within each business unit remain committed and focused over 50 HSE visits nationwide, where our health and on continual improvement of all aspects of health, safety systems were commended.
However, we did safety and environmental performance on our sites.
receive two prohibition notices relating to working at height and scaffolding issues, which were immediately There has been significant investment in health and rectied to the HSE inspectors satisfaction on the safety, including an increase in size and capacity of the same day.
health, safety and environmental department to support the enlarged Group.
This has meant that we no longer rely on external health and safety consultants in the Group, and all sites are now supported by our own internal health and safety professionals.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 16 1,960 3,320 4,000 9.8 7.1 8.6 We have successfully maintained our Group-wide Looking to the future, our health and safety action plan will certication to the independently assessed health and focus on our six key principles for continual improvement: safety management system standard, OHSAS 18001, leadership, planning, teamwork, communication, control which involved extensive national project and head ofce and behaviour.
The Groups commitment to high standards of health and safety were once again recognised with  senior management leadership presence across a number of awards.
These included 13 Gold Gold the Group Medal Awards in the Royal Society for the Prevention  effective planning for health and safety across all of Accidents RoSPA Annual Health and Safety Awards: businesses and projects winning the inaugural Welsh Water Occupational Health  working with key stakeholders to raise awareness and Safety Award: and in addition being Regional Winners and performance in health and safety of both the Constructing Excellence Health and Safety  robust processes for the systematic identication Awards and the National Business Awards.
and appropriate rectification of health and safety issues across the Group Our objectives for the year to 30 June 2007, in addition to attaining statistical thresholds, focused heavily  design, implementation and monitoring of a behavioural on the orderly and effective integration of Morrison safety programme for the Group.
Construction into the Groups health and safety management systems, after it joined the Group PEOPLE in March 2007.
This has involved: The value and importance we place on the loyalty, commitment and exibility of our employees in the  extensive consultation between the business divisions achievement of organisational goals is central to our and our health and safety support services culture.
We understand the importance of a constructive  generation of an independent health and safety relationship with our employees and our human resource department, whose aim is to support all the Groups policies and practices are designed to support this divisions in a structured and common manner relationship.
The values which underpin our employment relationship are founded on employee competence,  production and dissemination of a new Group-wide effort, compliance, commitment and loyalty in return for health and safety policy fairness, equity, consistency, security, career, involvement  issue and implementation of a new suite of health and trust from management.
and safety standards to replace all pre-existing management systems In order to effectively engage with our employees, we  extensive roll-out programmes, training and instruction have placed the management of people at a strategic on these new policy and standards.
level within the Company, recognising that our people are not simply one of the factors of production but the These actions have seen the development and major source of our competitive advantage.
implementation of a single health and safety management system and an independent in-house health and safety We have achieved and maintained our Investor in People department to ensure its effective execution.
This solid recognition across the Group, underpinning our corporate base of health and safety best practice will, we believe, training and development strategy.
This approach will be provide the springboard for our programme of continual extended to incorporate Linden Homes, acquired by the improvement that is designed to assist the achievement Group in March 2007. of the Groups objective of being industry leading in its health and safety practices.
Employee survey Our annual employee survey provides our employees Following the successful integration of Morrison with the opportunity to give their views on all aspects that Construction, we are well advanced in the integration impact on the employment relationship.
Senior managers of Linden Homes into the Groups health and safety respond by developing and communicating action plans management systems, and expect the process to to address the concerns of their individual businesses.
be complete in the first half of the new financial year.
The last survey revealed that 84.5 per cent of employees expressed satisfaction with their present job.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 17 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Training and development We recognise the value of a diverse workforce and we Learning and career development is an important part have adopted policies and practices that provide a fair of our business ethos.
In order to support skill acquisition chance for everyone in respect of employment, entry to and to provide a framework for management development employment, benets, training, placement and promotion.
which will enable staff to manage their own career Our commitment to equal opportunities ensures that all development whilst at the same time meeting employees have the opportunity to develop to their full organisational needs, the Group has adopted a strategy potential within the Group.
We are committed to giving based on the principles of incremental stepping stones.
full and fair consideration to the needs of disabled people This extensive framework provides a range of learning in applications for employment, opportunities for training opportunities leading to nationally recognised qualications and career development.
Our commitment to equal and membership of appropriate professional bodies.
The opportunities is designed to ensure that all our employees, programmes equip our employees with the knowledge, regardless of race, gender, nationality, age, disability, skills and capability to satisfy their own development sexual orientation, religion and background, have needs and those of the business.
We remain committed the opportunity to develop to their full potential within to supporting accredited training through the Institute the Group.
of Leadership and Warwick University Business School to which we have added a number of bespoke personal We value open and constructive two-way communication development programmes.
and aim to achieve this through our open-door policy, regular team briengs and business unit briengs.
We are committed to an annual intake of apprentices, These are supplemented by our internal publication, trainees and graduates across the Group and through GT Times, produced in spring and autumn each year.
the Galliford Try Academy provide structured training programmes at all levels.
Our trainee salary scales provide Future strategy consistency across the Group and are competitive The Group HR function continues to develop and to ensure we are able to attract and retain good-quality implement strategic HR policies and practices which trainees.
We provide work placements for students are underpinned by our commitment to the Investor requiring experience in the industry and offer sponsorships in People standard and aim to achieve competitive to undergraduates through longstanding relationships advantage through our people and reinforce Galliford with universities and the ICE Quest and Inspire Try as an employer of choice.
We will be completing the Scholarships schemes.
integration of the employees who joined us from Linden Homes into the Groups HR practices during the coming Annual Performance and Development Reviews APDRs year and we will be reviewing the initiatives that we employ are carried out throughout the Group.
The review supports to improve employee engagement and retention.
the measurement of behavioural skills to support our culture, vision and values.
The use of this competency ENVIRONMENT framework ensures we effectively direct our investment Galliford Try is committed to achieving industry leading in learning and development initiatives to equip our environmental performance across all of our business employees with the key skills they require for their roles.
In order to achieve this we have Those Linden employees who have recently joined implemented a project to achieve third-party certication the Group will take part in the APDR during the to ISO 14001:2004 across the entire Group, which builds coming year.
upon the success of eight of our business units that have already achieved and maintained the standard.
Detailed training plans are developed at business unit level and incorporate health and safety, environmental, Additionally, we have undertaken a number of actions technical, commercial, IT and personal development during the year to work towards the objectives set last requirements.
year to enhance our environmental performance.
These include: Recruitment and communications Our Group Employee Resourcing Policy centralises  development of a set of environmental standards the recruitment and selection process and continues applicable across the Group to improve both the cost-effectiveness of the process  appointment of three regional environmental advisers and the quality of new recruits.
Our employee referral to drive environmental performance improvement scheme has proved to be a very successful recruitment across our geographical regions and retention incentive.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 18  creation of a national service level agreement with COMMUNITY an experienced spill response contractor to provide Galliford Try aims to make a positive impact within the a rapid and effective response to potential significant communities in which it operates.
We work closely with environmental pollution incidents educational establishments to promote the construction industry and the work opportunities available.
 signing the Major Contractors Group Sustainability Charter a number of environmental performance We support the Construction Ambassador scheme, indices to allow environmental performance to working closely with Construction Skills in Schools, be monitored with our graduates providing support for team-building  consultation with the Department for Environment, events and challenges to encourage students to consider Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA on proposed changes a career in construction.
We support staff fundraising to environmental legislation as well as participating in efforts: amongst others during the year were staff taking DEFRA-sponsored projects to develop environmental part in the annual Helen Rollason Heal Cancer fun run, codes of practice for the construction industry competing in a World Cup five-a-side tournament to raise money for Hospiscare, and carrying out Our action plan for the following year is to: various activities to support the Water Aid and Children in Need charities.
 nalise and implement the Galliford Try environmental standards across all Company activities We are a patron of CRASH The Construction Industry  appoint an additional regional environmental adviser Charity for the Single Homeless, we participate in to ensure that the level of environmental resource business action for the homeless, offering homeless required for the enlarged Group is achieved people work experience opportunities, and we are a sponsor of the Lighthouse Club, a construction industry  initiate an extensive environmental training programme charity providing support to the families of workers across the Group to further raise awareness of in the industry who are in need.
environmental issues as well as of the requirements of Galliford Trys environmental standards External charitable giving in the year totalled 87,000  engage the services of a leading third-party certication including 28,000 by Linden Homes pre acquisition.
body to drive forward the process of gaining Of this amount, 5,500 went to construction industry certication to ISO 14001:2004 across the remaining charities and the remainder was distributed by our businesses with the Group.
businesses supporting their adopted charities and local community initiatives.
To 31 December 2006, we had no instances of an environmentally related prosecution brought against the Company, which compares with a total of 30 served on the construction and demolition industry sector across England, Scotland and Wales within the same period.
Furthermore, to 30 June 2007 we have not been subject to any environmentally related prosecutions.
During the year 70 per cent of our homes were constructed on browneld sites, demonstrating that we remain a significant contributor in assisting the Government in achieving its target of 60 per cent of all new developments being on browneld land.
We have received a number of awards including the CABE Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment Civic Trust HBF Home Builders Federation Gold Standard Building for Life award for our Village housebuilding development in Caterham.
Additionally, we won an ICE Institution of Civil Engineers Sustainability award for an outstanding civil engineering project for our Diglis Basin Improvement project as well as a CEEQUAL Civil Engineering Environmental Quality Assessment and Award Scheme award for our Rushall Canal improvement scheme.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 19
