BUSINESS REVIEW continued Project-related OUTLOOK The Group is undertaking several hundred projects The market for construction is expected to continue across its divisions at any one time.
In our housebuilding at buoyant levels for the foreseeable future.
The spread division we have a rigorous pre acquisition appraisal of our work, much of it directed to the programmes process covering purchase, construction and selling essential for the public and regulated sectors to improve on our developments.
In our construction business the the countrys infrastructure, is well balanced across commercial risk we take on each contract depends sectors that are growing and in which we are one on the contractual terms under the procurement route of a limited number of qualied providers.
that the contract has been secured, the nature and complexity of the works and the duration of the project.
In housebuilding, our new critical mass in our areas We have a rigorous approach to contract selection of operation, combined with our business model to ensure that the work we undertake matches our of developing individual quality developments, and capabilities and the resources we have available, that not relying on consortium sites, is serving us well.
the terms under which we are to carry out the work With encouraging sales over the summer period, are acceptable and that clear responsibility for scrutiny we are well positioned to deliver a good performance and approval is given by the right level of management.
in the more challenging markets that we now face.
Health, safety and environmental Our increasing focus on affordable housing and We are operating on several hundred sites on which regeneration is proving its value as we continue to construction operations are carried out at any time.
win significant schemes, demonstrating the additional We need to provide a safe working environment for our potential of our successful construction and employees, all others who work on our sites and members housebuilding business model.
The opportunities of the public.
We recognise the significant impact if exist to increase our market share signicantly.
The Group therefore treats health, safety and environmental issues as a priority and has a CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY comprehensive policy and framework in place to manage Galliford Try aims to make a positive impact within these risks, details of which are set out in the Corporate the communities in which it operates by contributing and Social Responsibility Report.
We recognise that many stakeholders have an interest in our activities, Human resources and our approach is explained in the Corporate and Social The future success of the Group is critically dependent Responsibility Report.
upon attracting, developing and retaining talented individuals in the business at all levels.
We base our OUR PEOPLE human resources policies on the Investor in People The value we place on our employees is central to principles, with which we are accredited throughout our culture.
Today, Galliford Try employs 4,000 people, the Group and which we are applying to the recent compared to 3,320 in 2006 and 1,960 in 2005, the acquisition of Linden Homes.
Further details of our increase resulting from both organic and growth by approach are given in the Corporate and Social acquisition.
Continuing to develop strategic human Responsibility Report.
resources policies and practice, underpinned by our commitment to the Investor in People standard, The Group carries out a review of its risk management is our objective as we aim to be an employer of choice.
processes annually in conjunction with the requirement For more about this, please see page 17. to review and demonstrate effective internal controls.
This ensures that as new risks emerge in connection with general market developments, group strategy or with projects, appropriate action can be planned.
Further detail on the boards internal controls and risk management procedures are in the Corporate Governance Report on page 27.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 14 SHAREHOLDERS In our housebuilding business we carry out detailed Galliford Try is committed to helping its shareholders customer care research using independent external develop a clear understanding of the Companys strategy, consultants that monitor the satisfaction of home buyers performance and growth potential.
We send all new both with their new home and the service they receive shareholders a welcome letter with information about during the buying process.
With over 90 per cent of our the Group, maintain a section of our website specically customers consistently stating they would recommend for shareholders, make a detailed presentation on the us to their best friend, and the achievement of the highest business at the Annual General Meeting and aim to provide rating compared to other housebuilders in the annual written communications that are clear, timely and relevant.
Homebuilders Federation survey, we know we need to maintain our current standards, improving where we can.
SIGNIFICANT RELATIONSHIPS Business partners Relationships are important to Galliford Try: the business We carry out some of our work in joint venture with has been built on a collaborative culture that permeates other partners.
Our key joint venture partners are throughout each of our operating divisions.
process engineers, contractors and consultants on our frameworks for the water utilities in our infrastructure Clients and customers business, and in housebuilding where we enter into joint Our building and infrastructure businesses have many ventures with other housebuilders for the development long-term relationships with key clients that provide of large sites such as the redevelopment of the Epsom work over many projects, particularly those that operate Hospital Clusters.
through 5 or 10 year framework agreements.
Although no one client would account for more than 6 per cent Supply chain and service providers of revenue in any one year, major clients in our building We believe that developing long-term relationships and infrastructure divisions will include: with all who provide services to our business, such as consultants, sub-contractors, service providers and  companies for whom we carry out infrastructure materials suppliers, is crucial to our ability to provide our frameworks, such as the seven regulated water utilities clients and customers with projects that deliver to the for whom we are working under their current asset highest standard.
By working closely with these providers, management programmes AMP4 we nd new and better ways to improve our service,  the private finance initiative project companies increasing our efficiency, minimising our costs and through which our major PFI projects are constructed, addressing key performance requirements for health, such as the 192 million contract being carried safety and environmental matters.
out over three years for Northamptonshire County Council Schools Throughout its businesses the Group has relationships  the All England Lawn Tennis Club at Wimbledon, with with rms of architects, engineers and other consultants whom we have been working for over 30 years and as well as with larger rms of sub-contractors and for whom we are carrying out the reconstruction of materials providers.
the new Centre Court, due for completion in 2009  the Scottish Executive and the Highways Agency The Group also has key relationships with its providers for whom our infrastructure business carries out of corporate services such as surety bonding, insurance significant programmes of highways work.
The Group restructured its borrowing facilities during the year as explained under nancing on page 12.
Our performance in delivering projects to our construction clients and meeting our home buyers aspirations is fundamental to the success of the business.
For our construction clients, our achievement of performance standards and their feedback is used to improve our service going forward.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 15
