15 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Taking our corporate responsibilities seriously not only makes required to produce each packaged barrel is now 20% lower than good business sense but also helps foster a reputation as a good it was at the start of the year, whilst our head office used 13% corporate citizen.
We believe we have made good progress over less electricity than the prior year.
the last few years and we continue to explore further ways in which we can ensure that we act in a socially responsible manner In Bury St Edmunds effluent is discharged into the public sewer throughout the business.
under consent from the local water treatment company.
As a result of a focus on reducing losses and revised programmes to use the minimum amount of water without compromising quality, Environment the volume of effluent produced was 29,000 cubic metres, or At a time of great public interest in global warming, considerable 11%, less than last year.
The effluent is monitored and focus has been placed on how we can reduce our carbon emissions.
procedures and equipment are in place to minimise and contain To do that we need to understand the amount of power we use.
any possible spillages to the ground or storm drain around our Accordingly, over 700 remote-read electricity meters have been production areas.
installed in our managed pubs throught the UK in the last 12 months.
A range of initiatives has also been introduced to reduce Investment has also been made in the Belhaven brewery, to electricity consumption, from energy packs which turn off enable it to minimise waste.
"Measuring systems have been equipment and lights when a pub is closed to a ""turn it off"" installed and procedures to identify and repair leaks have been campaign aimed at our staff."
In addition, 25,000 ordinary light bulbs enhanced.
Tight control of the combined heat and power plant have been replaced with low-energy versions.
Across our managed has led to a reduction of 26% over the prior year in the annual pubs these measures have produced a saving equivalent to 19m gas consumption.
Carbon emissions have been reduced by over KwH or 10,000 tonnes of carbon.
Our tenants are encouraged to 700 tonnes as a result of this and of careful control of brewing participate in similar programmes through the provision of advice, tank temperatures.
energy saving stickers and the ability to purchase low-energy light bulbs in our share and save programme.
Fuel emissions have been reduced by the installation of our own bottling line at Old Speckled Hen Hall, on the outskirts of Bury St We are now working on an energy policy which will define the Edmunds.
This has enable us to remove more than 400 actions to be taken when we refit pubs, so that the design movements per year of road tankers or 170,000 road miles to incorporates the latest energy conservation technology for other bottling companies across the UK.
cookers, fridges, boilers, air conditioning and insulation and such like, where they can be shown to have cost benefits over the lifeProduction waste materials are, wherever possible, used in an cycle of the equipment.
Gas usage has also been targetted in environmentally friendly manner.
Spent grain from our brewing Scotland alone gas usage improvement is running at 12%, process is sold as animal feed, and in 2006 over 2,700 tonnes achieved by reducing the use of central heating and making of surplus yeast slurry were also converted to animal feed or better use of catering equipment.
sold to the makers of Marmite, compared with over 1,000 tonnes last year.
Over 100 tonnes of office waste were recycled Water consumption in our managed pubs has also been a key during the year a 100% increase compared with last year and focus area in the last 12 months.
Over 150 remote-read water a number of initiatives, including the on-line application system meters have been installed and initiatives introduced to ensure for Pub Partners, have reduced paper usage.
Pubs are set targets for usage so that water wastage can be minimised and water saving equipment Conservation of the flood meadows in Bury St Edmunds continues.
Approximately one-third of our pubs have so far been covered, reducing our annual water consumption by over 180,000 cubic metres.
A responsible attitude to alcohol and visiting pubs It is fundamental to us that we should continue to promote our In Bury St Edmunds, where our brewing operations and head beers responsibly.
We aim to celebrate real beer by promoting its office are based, we reduced our electricity consumption by taste and flavour as opposed to its bulk consumption, with 430,000 kWh, our gas consumption by more than 320,000 kWh campaigns such as 'Beer with Food Week', and our Beer To Dine and our CO emissions by more than 850 tonnes, as a result of For campaign.
Our promotional materials carry clear and concise 2 greater focus on the efficient use of boilers, the reduction of messages encouraging the responsible consumption of alcohol.
"leaks, improved insulation in our production areas and initiatives Our advertisements are not designed to appeal to under 18s and such as a ""turn it off"" campaign for our head office."
The energy none of our brand advertising focuses on the alcoholic strength of GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT the beer, suggests any association with bravado or aggressive Smoking behaviour, nor implies that consumption can lead to social or Both our managed and tenanted leased divisions have developed sexual success.
training and operational guidance so that pubs can ensure that they become smoke-free and clean environments for both We remain a key supporter of the Publican trade magazine's employees and customers.
All sites have received regular 'Proud of Pubs' campaign, in which pubs pledge not to serve communications to highlight the changes in the law and been underage drinkers or anyone who is drunk, to support our local supplied with the legislative guidance and official signage.
communities and respect local residents and businesses.
In our Alongside this we have developed a kit to enable our pubs to managed pubs we support the 'Challenge 21' initiative, track conform to the changes more easily with sensitive reminders to attempts by under-age drinkers to order alcoholic drinks and customers on table tent cards and toilet posters.
operate a proof-of-age scheme: all you can drink promotions and heavily discounted prices are not a feature of our managed pubs.
We banned smoking at the bar in all our managed houses 18 We train our retail staff on how to manage difficult situations in a months ago and banned smoking back of house completely from calm, safe and considered manner and provide security training 10 June, to prepare our employees for the changes in advance for all our new managers.
Security systems, including CCTV, are in of 1 July.
place in all our English managed pubs, backed up by central monitoring systems in 240 of them.
90% of our managed pubs In Scotland our management team effected a seamless transition participate in the local Pub Watch scheme, an initiative designed to smoke-free pubs.
Wherever possible external areas were to promote a safer environment for people to work and socialise in.
created to provide our customers with as much shelter and comfort as possible.
Training programmes for staff and clear We encourage our tenanted and leased pubs to follow our lead in signage for customers resulted in total compliance with the new this area.
All such pubs have received Challenge 21 posters, check legislation in all our managed and tenanted houses, with the ID stickers and training guidance for staff.
exception of one or two minor incidents.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 17 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Employees Health and safety We have a clear understanding of the need to recruit and retain We are committed to providing a safe and secure environment for talented staff if we are to meet our aim of being the best pub and both our employees and our customers.
Safety management beer company in the UK.
With best quality customer service being includes the use of detailed risk assessments, which are audited a key priority, we focus closely on the training of all customerto ensure compliance, in accordance with models suggested by facing employees.
A set of common values applies to all our the Health and Safety Executive.
Health and safety training is employees, from senior managers to bar staff, and we have provided as a core competency for all house managers.
Managed policies on a range of issues from equal opportunities to flexible houses are subject to a weekly health and safety audit which is working.
Employees have the opportunity to express their views centrally collated and retained.
A more detailed health and safety and receive information about the company on a regular basis.
and food safety audit is undertaken at least every six months with the support of third party auditors.
Risk reduction measures, All our employees are offered access to a  such as checks on gas and electrical fittings and fixtures, kitchen defined contribution pension scheme.
Many of our employees flue cleaning and fire detection and warning systems, are have benefited from the range of employee share schemes on centrally administered.
An annual fire risk assessment is also offer, including a sharesave scheme open to all and a profit-sharing undertaken in every managed pub.
Our Brewing Company won scheme open to employees with the requisite qualifying service.
two gold awards at the prestigious RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Awards 2007.
Tenants Pub Partners prides itself on providing the best possible support Charities and community to tenants to help them succeed with their businesses.
1800 We believe that pubs should be at the heart of the community licensees were trained during the year, on courses covering they serve and we are committed to being an active and positive subjects ranging from finance, marketing and cellar management contributor to local communities.
Where employees, licensees or to health and safety and security.
New training programmes are free trade customers want to help good local causes, we often constantly being introduced.
Over 200 licensees were trained in offer help by donating prizes or additional funds.
Significant our Go for Growth campaign, and our share and save programme amounts of money can be raised for many different charitable provides real benefits to our tenants in areas such as electricity, causes in this way.
food, credit card machines and furniture.
We believe there should be a fair division of the economic profit in our tenanted houses and so we charge commercial market rents, raised annually in line with RPI and with rent reviews carried out every five years.
By encouraging open book accounting for our new tenants, we can help them recognise early on if there are issues and offer appropriate support.
Our longer lease agreements provide for rent to be calculated on a fair maintainable turnover basis and by following our code of practice any agreements with our licensees are transparent to them.
Our new partnership advantage agreement is designed to help tenants by allowing them access to wholesale competitive prices for wines, spirits, minerals and small pack beer, in conjunction with an adjustment to the pub's current rental figure.
In Scotland we helped provide external areas for smokers at our tenanted houses and our training programmes focused on assisting tenants to comply with the smoking ban and to help them with fire risk assessment.
This year the emphasis will switch to helping our tenants prepare to meet the significant and challenging requirements of the Licensing Scotland Act 2005.
