20 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Greggs plc believes that, as a major It is our policy to give full and fair the aim of progressively raising our employer, a provider of food products consideration to applications for standards in these important safety to the public, and a quoted company employment by people who are areas.
Line management is supported in with obligations to its shareholders, disabled, to continue wherever this drive for constant improvement by it has a responsibility to conduct its possible the employment of staff who a significant number of dedicated business with integrity.
We aim to act become disabled, and to provide equal professionals specialising in Health & responsibly, to address the impacts of opportunities for the career Safety and quality assurance.
our business on the environment, and development of disabled employees.
Management responsibility to give something back to the wider We recognise the importance of In November 2007, Greggs plc community in which we operate.
communicating with our employees, and appointed a Social Responsibility This responsibility is delivered through have devised systems to address the Director reporting directly to the the following: challenges created by the wide spread Managing Director.
This senior of our operating locations throughout appointment was designed to ensure Our Values the country.
Effective communication that Social Responsibility issues are These are embraced by the Board and with all members of staff is ensured addressed by a highly experienced and expected of all colleagues: through our operational structure of respected member of the management We will be enthusiastic and shop, area and divisional management.
He is dedicated to refining and supportive in all that we do, open, All employees receive regular briefings developing the Companys strategy in honest and appreciative, treating and are kept in touch with divisional and this most important area, setting everyone with fairness, consideration Group performance and issues through targets and ensuring their achievement and respect.
by driving forward the implementation of agreed action plans.
The reporting Our Values are the basis for all our The Group operates Profit Sharing and structure will ensure that our policies activities.
Our employees are expected Savings Related Share Option Schemes and performance in this area receive to use them in their relationships with to encourage its employees to identify appropriate attention at the very each other and with customers and with its corporate objectives.
highest level in the business.
Our Values are our code of Food Safety and Health & Safety are at conduct and provide the framework The Environment the forefront of how we operate.
Our within which the business manages its The Company recognises the absolute reputation depends on providing our activities and operates.
necessity of protecting the customers with food products of environment for the people of today Employment policies consistently excellent quality, backed by and for future generations.
The We are committed to promoting firm assurances of food safety.
Robust Company is, therefore, committed to policies which are designed to ensure systems are also in place, designed to carrying out its activities with due that employees and those who seek to protect the health and safety of both consideration for the environmental work for us are treated equally, customers and employees.
We are impacts of its operations and in line regardless of sex, marital status, creed, increasing our investment in staff with Our Values.
colour, race or ethnic origin.
training and compliance auditing with GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 21 Environmental Policy Waste and recycling way of sustainably reducing consumption.
We are committed to an on-going Following successful regional initiatives We also continued to invest in lower programme, designed to ensure the in 2006 to reduce the amount of waste energy ovens and lighting systems.
continual reduction of any adverse going to landfill, and the number of Improved productivity and energy impacts from our operations, while associated shop collections, we have efficiency in our bakeries is reflected in achieving our long-term business further increased recycling across the the fact that production grew by 3.7 objectives.
To manage this, the Company business by rolling out this good per cent in 2007, without any increase is continuing to progress the following: practice to additional divisions.
Work is in our total energy consumption.
proceeding on a project to convert  compliance with all relevant Once again our good energy waste into green energy, with environmental legislation, regulation performance has allowed the full saving promising initial results.
and other requirements applicable of the Climate Change Levy.
to the Company or to which the Our food Buildings constructed today will, in all Company subscribes: As a food on the go business, founded probability, still be in use in 40 to 50 on its bakery heritage, Greggs has  working with the Carbon Trust and years time, when they will face always produced the vast majority of others to set tough targets for the environmental requirements that are the food it sells.
Our entire range is reduction of our carbon footprint.
difficult to foresee but are likely to be made and sold fresh every day, and we These targets are to be agreed in considerably more exacting than are proud of the wholesomeness of 2008 and to be achieved by the end those of today.
With this in mind, we our products, while constantly seeking of 2013: built our new bakery in Clydesmill, to improve our range to meet Glasgow, which opened towards the  reduction of waste at source by focusing changing consumer needs and end of 2007, to standards well in on the efficient use of resources: aspirations, and concerns about diet excess of those currently required.
We are ever more  increasing the re-use or recycling of Features include energy saving demanding of our ingredient and other that waste which remains: lighting, waste heat recovery from suppliers as we pursue improvement, refrigeration compressors, and the  ensuring that policies and both in our Healthier Options range energy monitoring and reporting system procedures are in place to minimise and our mainstream products.
There are high the occurrence and impact of Progress insulation levels and the latest thermally accidents and other incidents: During 2007, we continued to bear efficient equipment, together with  increasing employee awareness of down on energy consumption.
During secondary refrigeration circuits for more the environmental issues which the year, three bakeries and 300 shops efficiency and safety.
The offices have affect the Company as a whole, were equipped with energy monitoring high insulation glass, zonal heating and their own operations and lives: and reporting systems.
We are finding systems, PIR detection lighting, and solar that this, combined with back office heating pipes to the internal corridors.
 building the assessment of reporting and our SEBA Save Energy, All air handling units have heat exchangers environmental impact into the Be Aware programme, is an effective to extract heat from waste air.
appraisal of all capital projects.
22 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We have also made progress in from the Greggs plc donation, from Greggs Childrens Room as a tribute to reducing our use of packaging during employees under the Give as You Earn the great contribution made to the 2007.
Now, 90 per cent of our paper Scheme, and from staff fund raising business over many years by Ian Gregg bags are made of recycled paper and activities.
The balance was received in and Malcolm Simpson.
This is a centre the remaining 10 per cent use paper the form of donations from major where disadvantaged children are derived from managed forests.
We shareholders and income from helped to gain confidence through have saved around 80 tonnes of paper investments including shares in Greggs participation in musical activities.
per annum by reducing the gauge of plc held by the Trust.
Funds are The Companys five year investment in paper we specify.
70 per cent of our distributed by the Trustees and via staff the Newcastle Employment Bond plastic carrier bags are degradable, as Charity Committees operating across matured in the summer of 2006 and are all the bags used on sliced bread.
the country, offering support to good this was rolled over into the North East Where we use clear plastic sandwich causes within our trading areas.
Enterprise Bond for a five year period.
containers, these are now made from The Greggs Breakfast Club scheme is The investment is at zero rate interest, rPET, a recycled material made from designed to get children in selected with the interest foregone to be used PET soft drink bottles.
Growing primary schools off to a better start by to fund a major private sector initiative awareness of waste and environmental providing them with free breakfasts.
to trigger and encourage new business issues is also beginning to encourage Greggs funds a nutritious breakfast, start-ups and to evoke a change in the both our staff and customers to use including the provision of fresh bread enterprise culture over the long-term fewer packaging items, with a marked from local Greggs or Bakers Oven across the North East of England.
reduction in usage detectable over the shops, together with the necessary Other major fund-raising events in course of the year.
Greggs and Bakers Oven which our staff participate include the Wider Communities staff work with teachers to encourage Greggs Cancer Run, an annual In 2007, Greggs plc directly donated parents, grandparents and other institution which has raised over 3 730,000 2006: 548,000 to charity, volunteers to run the clubs, including million for childrens cancer charities representing 1.4 per cent 2006: 1.3 serving the breakfasts, thereby helping since its inception in 1983.
In 2007, per cent of its pre-tax profit.
This them to help others in their own Cancer Runs took place in seven was directed principally through the communities.
In 2007, there were 124 divisions, raising a total of 310,000.
Greggs Trust and the Greggs Breakfast Breakfast Clubs.
The concept has been Greggs staff also raised 175,000 for Club scheme.
validated by external independent the BBC Children in Need appeal research, which has shown that Greggs Trust is a registered charity, through their own fund raising efforts Breakfast Club attendance encourages founded by the Companys former and sales of Pudsey cakes, biscuits and children to get to school on time and Chairman, Ian Gregg, in 1987.
objective is the alleviation of the effects of poverty and social deprivation in the Last year, the Company agreed a In addition to the schemes listed areas where the Company trades.
Its 150,000 three-year sponsorship with above, Greggs plc staff throughout the income in 2007 was 702,000, derived The Sage in Gateshead, establishing the country participate voluntarily in a
