CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Halfords corporate social responsibility programme is designed to Colleague engagement and support are vitally important to the align the Groups operations with the important corporate social Group and several initiatives are in place to achieve this, e. g. an responsibility issues for our business and to facilitate appropriate intranet site has been set up enable colleagues to post comments management approaches.
on any business matter and a Group-wide colleague engagement survey was launched towards the end of the year.
Specific Our aim is to continually improve our management of those social, support sessions have been created for major business changes, environmental and economic issues within our control or influence such as the introduction of new systems.
In addition, training and throughout the business and our supply network.
development programmes are in place throughout the business to maximise peoples skills and advancement.
A summary of our policies and developments in these areas over the past year is given below.
Our full Corporate Social With environmental issues our commitment is to understand and Responsibility Report 2007 can be found on the Companys improve the performance and management of our environmental corporate website, www.
impact throughout the Halfords supply chain.
We aim to achieve a high standard of responsible care for people and the environment, We group our areas of engagement into four broad categories: whilst maximising business efficiency and growth.
how we source our products and market them, how we deal with our colleagues, how we affect the environment and how we As a part of our community engagement the Group has chosen interact with the communities in which we operate.
Our principles The Meningitis Trust as our Charity of the Year.
This involves all of within these areas are given below.
our employees in the UK and the Republic of Ireland in fundraising initiatives to support the Trust.
On average, one person in In selling our products and services we aim to meet or exceed the the UK dies every day from meningitis and it kills more children requirements of legislation, regulation, industry standards, under five than any other infectious disease.
The Halfords international conventions and codes of practice.
We oppose the partnership will focus on raising awareness amongst our staff and exploitation of children and young people, and the exploitation of customers and raising money to support the charitys many workers generally, and we support fair and reasonable rewards campaigns.
To this end, we conduct factory, warehouse and tied accommodation inspections and audits to ensure that our standards are being implemented.
Further, the health and safety of workers employed in our supply chain is a key concern for us.
We require all activities to be carried out under conditions that have proper and adequate regard for the health and safety of those involved.
In the workplace, engaging with our colleagues is a key objective for Halfords.
One of our greatest achievements regarding this engagement was our ability to reward our people following the flotation of the Company in 2004 and let them share in our future success as a listed company.
To do this we successfully launched a company share option scheme that invited employees to accept a grant of options.
The most innovative aspect of this scheme was the decision to include all of our people, subject to a service requirement, irrespective of their position within the business.
We are particularly proud of this achievement, as similar schemes are usually designed for the executive or senior management population.
This grant of options becomes eligible for exercise in June 2007.
We also encourage wider share ownership within the business through a sharesave scheme, which is available to colleagues, subject to eligibility criteria.
