08 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action it takes ambition Dr Ling Sun Director of Asia Operations for Ocean Optics, Inc. We appointed Dr Ling Sun Director of Asia Operations for Ocean Optics, Inc. to head up a new regional sales office in 2006.
Based in Shanghai, Lings team provides region-wide sales and technical support for our photonics technologies throughout the dynamic Asian market.
Before joining us, she gained a doctorate in Material Sciences from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, and was principal engineer for Ocean Optics products at our Japanese distributor.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 09 Seven Halma businesses Our miniature fibre optic spectrometers Ocean Optics, Crowcon, Hanovia, are used to test LED lamps in this Keeler, Berson, Netherlocks and quality control system manufactured Palintest have set up new direct sales by Huge Winners CNC System Ltd. operations in China during 2006 07 Shenzhen, China.
using the hub offices as a springboard.
Springboard for success There are tremendous opportunities for our companies to contribute to Chinas rapid economic development.
To kick start our subsidiaries entry into Chinese markets, during 2006 we set up hub offices in Shanghai and Beijing.
From these hubs we offer subsidiaries fully-serviced offices.
They are supported by experienced local managers providing administrative, marketing, human resources and legal services.
When Ocean Optics set up a new direct sales operation in China in 2006, they quickly established a sales and support network based on the Halma hub office in Shanghai.
Now well established with growing sales, they have moved into their own premises.
10 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action The Halma Executive Development Teamwork in action as our managers on Programme HEDP is as much about the HEDP scheme learn about group personal development as acquiring behaviour through practical exercises.
Here Halma managers entertain children cared for by the Shisei Gakuen Childrens Charity, Tokyo, Japan.
it takes investment in people Jim Ludwig MD of Texecom Limited Jim Ludwig joined our US corporate team in 1998 as a specialist in acquisitions and business development.
Four years later, he switched roles and moved into line management as President of Air Products and Controls Inc. a US fire products manufacturer with 33 employees.
One of the many Halma executives who have benefited from the Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP, Jim has recently moved to the UK to head up security sensor specialist Texecom, which has over 300 staff.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 11 Improving our people resources Raising the quality of leadership throughout the Group by investment in people is central to our growth strategy.
The HEDP has been running successfully for 18 months and, by the end of 2007, over 80 of our senior managers will have completed the three-week residential course.
In April 2007 we launched a new training scheme, the Halma Management Development Programme, to extend our commitment to people development across a wider group of employees.
Investment in people has greatly improved mobility and career development opportunities for our high flyers.
We can consider internal candidates for top jobs more often and our managers have greater opportunities to work in different regions of the world.
12 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action Tim Stubbs, Engineering Manager, and The Best Small-Scale Innovation at the Mike Golding, Managing Director, of 2006 Railway Forum Modern Railways Fortress Interlocks Limited, celebrate Innovation Awards went to Radio-Tech winning the Queens Award for Limited for their Rail Temperature Monitor Innovation in addition to the Green safety system which gives early warning Innovation Award in the 2006 Innovation of the risk of track buckling.
it takes innovative people Inder Panesar Director and Brian Back MD of Radio-Tech Limited Inder Panesar and Brian Back are successful, innovative engineers.
This was recognised when they won the Halma 2006 Innovation Award.
They developed a unique system which remotely monitors the temperature of railway tracks.
It has already achieved substantial sales.
Radio-Tech is one of our many highly innovative companies and a technology leader in wireless and cellular telemetry data transmission systems.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 13 Investment in innovation We invest heavily in R&D to maintain competitive advantage via technological innovation.
Continuous innovation is critical to our growth strategy.
We know that successful innovation in business processes and products needs more than imaginative ideas.
It demands enthusiasm, resources and perseverance to drive a new concept to completion.
Successful innovators continue to develop their ideas, use failures to trigger even better ideas and never give up.
These employees are vital to our success and we have strategies to support and encourage them.
To give innovation a high profile we award annual and monthly innovation prizes, we run innovation and creativity training courses and organise Group-wide innovation workshops.
14 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action it takes collaboration Rob Fish MD of Palmer Environmental Limited and Alain Souli MD of Hydreka SAS Close collaboration between Rob Fish and Alain Souils companies, together with Radio-Tech, another of our subsidiaries, has resulted in the development of a new, fixed network leak detection system for one of the worlds largest water companies.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 15 Following the organisation of our This innovative fire detector, which has elevator safety products companies an integral audible sounder and visible into three regional businesses covering flashing beacon alarm to comply with Asia, Europe and North America, they disability legislation, was developed now collaborate in all areas of R&D, jointly by two of our subsidiaries.
Benefits of collaboration Hydreka successfully met its customers demand for a state-of-the-art monitoring system by calling on the technical expertise of both Palmer and Radio-Tech.
Working together, the companies developed a unique product combining the benefits of three Group technologies.
We encourage our businesses to collaborate and share technology advances and application experience.
In many markets where competitors have a narrow area of expertise, collaborative product development and marketing can give us a real competitive advantage.
Increasingly, our complementary technologies are being offered to the market as a package backed by unrivalled technical expertise.
16 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action Customers ranging from international Tritech is an industry leader in sensors, aerospace agencies to digital camera tools and video and acoustic surveillance manufacturers use Labsphere systems for remotely operated and light sources to test and calibrate autonomous underwater vehicles.
it takes entrepreneurs Richard Marsh, Marcus Cardew, Alison Trepte, Jonathan Trepte and Dick Wright Vendors of Tritech and System Technologies who have remained with the businesses Beginning life in 1990 as a two-man operation working from a converted house, Tritechs former owners built the company into an industry leader in acoustic and video equipment for underwater asset monitoring, aided by the expertise of their colleagues at System Technologies.
Halma acquired the companies in November 2006.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 17 Acquiring entrepreneurs Acquiring a business is not purely a financial exercise.
We are interested in intellectual assets more than physical assets and search for successful companies in, or adjacent to, the markets we already operate in.
We are always keen to 'acquire' the dynamic entrepreneurs who built the business through leadership, determination, single-minded pursuit of opportunities and calculated risk-taking.
We have a highly decentralised, entrepreneurial culture.
As a result, owners of acquired companies feel comfortable within the Group and often remain in position after selling their businesses.
Over the years, a number of Divisional Chief Executives and Halma Directors have joined the Group through an acquisition.
18 Halma p. l. c. 2007 People in action Vulnerable patients at the Northport Our UV system treats pool water at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, New Germantown Academy in Pennsylvania, Jersey, USA, are protected from contact USA.
According to swimming coach with elevator doors by our infrared safety Richard Shoulberg, trainer of over sensors.
15 Olympic swimmers, Previously, many Patients get plenty of advance warning of our athletes were having respiratory that doors are closing and can take their problems due to heavily chlorinated time, said Mike Boyle, Supervisor water.
The switch to UV treatment has Electrical, Northport Veterans Affairs been amazing.
The athletes stopped Medical Center.
needing inhalers as the atmosphere around the pool was much better, with no throat and eye irritations.
it takes satisfied customers Ray Kamal Vice President of Computrols Inc. New Orleans Ray Kamal has been with Computrols Inc. for almost ten years with responsibility for sales, marketing, production and R&D.
Based in New Orleans, USA, Computrols designs, manufactures and services state-of-the-art building automation systems.
The company uses our fire detectors in their CSimon Fire System which delivers cutting edge fire protection.
Computrols recently installed our fire detectors in a system that protects the Statue of Liberty on Liberty Island, New York City.
People in action Halma p. l. c. 2007 19 Excellence in customer support Satisfied customers are essential to our future growth and we have created hundreds of thousands all over the world.
Our subsidiary Apollo Fire Detectors provided technical assistance to Computrols so that they could develop control panels that work with our fire detectors.
According to Ray Kamal, the companies have developed a strong relationship to ensure that Computrols can offer customers a solution which meets their expectations in this safety critical application.
He said, Ive been impressed by the fact that Apollo fire detectors are so easy to install and always work straight out of the box.
They are delivered on time, defect free.
Apollo provides above and beyond technical support and their advice has helped to get our system listed to the highest certification possible which was incredibly important to us.
