An industry leading web function 1.
Salary guides by sector The combination of an unrivalled UK ofce network and our strong online presence is the cornerstone of our market offering and a powerful source of competitive advantage.
Andy McRae, UK Managing Director The internet is now the main forum for job advertising in specialist recruitment.
In February, we launched a new version of www.
com which includes innovations designed to provide better service to candidates and clients, and improve efficiencies for Hays.
The launch followed extensive user testing and interviews with candidates evaluating how they interacted with www.
com and other recruitment websites.
A key nding was that users wanted a better way to search for jobs by location.
In response, our in-house web development team worked with a leading software provider to build into our website a sophisticated Virtual Earth map which dynamically displays Hays jobs by location.
This enables the user to input a location and a job search criteria, and view where Hays has suitable jobs in the surrounding vicinity.
We believe this is the first recruitment website which fully integrates a mapping solution into a job search process.
Our new website however, is not just about improving job searching efficiency for candidates.
By fully connecting the recruitment systems used in our ofces with our online adverts, the new www.
com has reduced the administrative work required by our consultants to post job advertisements.
In addition, by giving candidates a real time environment for viewing our latest vacancies, and improving their ability to lter job advertisements, the new website has helped our consultants to match applications to jobs more quickly and efficiently.
com attracts circa 1.3 million visitors a month, has 11 million page views a month, receives140,000 applications a month, and has more than 57,000 jobs advertised.
The link between our online presence and our ofce network is critical to the Hays service offering.
The internet is a tool of great importance for attracting candidates and clients, and we will continue to innovate and invest to strengthen our online capability.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility The Group has a structured approach towards internal recruitment and promotion with decisions based on an individuals ability to Realising talent perform the role.
This means that full consideration is given to disabled applicants where they have the right skills and abilities and skills for the role.
Should an employee become disabled whilst working for the business, every effort is made to nd a suitable alternative Hays Values role and to assist with any retraining.
Our commitment to training Through listening to our clients, candidates and our employees, we and development includes consideration of any special training have created the Hays values.
These clear standards of service and needs of disabled employees.
behaviours support everything we do to serve everyone we work with: Health & Safety Empathy & Integrity treat people as we would like to be We provide safe working conditions for our employees and visitors.
treated ourselves The Group Health Safety & Environmental Manager has a Expect Excellence aspire to lead the market in service delivery responsibility not only for policy development and implementation, Forward Thinking lead the market but also for the collation and dissemination of information and International Mindset a multicultural business adapting performance reports.
Policies are clear and simple, they are to local environments regularly reviewed and updated, and refresher training is provided Personal Ownership accountable for everything we do for health & safety representatives in the business units.
Passionate About People treat nding people jobs with The incident reporting system continues to identify accidents the importance it deserves that occur to our staff, and the Company Secretary reports Specialist Expertise put the right person in the right job significant events to the Management Board.
The statistics are every time compiled and shared across the Group enabling management We communicate these values to our employees, our clients to take a proactive approach to health & safety for their staff.
The and candidates around the world.
These values represent the majority of incidents in 2007 have been trips and falls and standards that we expect our employees to deliver and exceed.
The frequency of these incidents has been They also provide a clear mandate for our clients and candidates low and the severity minor.
Staff concerns over health & safety expectations of the standard of service they will receive, when are raised at the Employee Forums and are communicated to dealing with any of our employees, whenever and wherever management.
Policy continues to be updated to take account they use our services in the world.
of these issues and changes in legislation.
Hays Vision Environment The Hays vision is to build a balanced, sustainable business The Board of Hays plc has reviewed the Groups level of and be the best specialist recruitment company in the world environmental impact and considers that Hays has a low impact in the eyes of our clients, candidates, staff and investors.
Hays is working to reduce its impact further.
We believe we will achieve this by placing the right person We have implemented various initiatives to achieve this.
We are in the right job every time.
Finding people jobs is an important increasing the amount of waste paper we recycle and during task in society that carries with it duties of care and professional the year 747 tonnes were collected in the United Kingdom.
Hays plays an important role in placing people in Our ofces operate pool cars for consultants to visit clients which the right jobs, allowing individuals to make the best use of their reduces our number of company vehicles.
Hays also encourages talents and skills, and helping them to maintain their work life company car owners to choose vehicles with low emissions.
Most balance in the manner that they wish.
staff throughout the business operate from open plan ofces, Our temporary stafng provides exible working arrangements minimising total oor space and associated energy consumption.
to enable everyone to have access to the workplace.
Hays is continuing its approach to reducing the amount of Employees paper used in its ofces, by completing its delivery of scanning In line with our vision, our aim is to be the best specialist recruitment technology to all its ofces whereby originals of documents that company to work for in the world and we have a clear Group human have to be copied can be scanned rather than photocopied.
The resources strategy and employee brand to deliver on this.
use of paper timesheets for temporary workers will eventually be We measure our success in creating a positive working replaced by online timesheets, subject to the ability of our clients environment via our annual TALKback survey which asks all to access the technology on their sites.
Key departments where our employees across the world how they feel about working volumes of paper still need to be used are introducing double for Hays.
The results are reviewed by both the Management sided printers.
Board and local management and actions taken to ensure we We believe that these and other initiatives make good continue to improve on our strong employee engagement scores.
commercial sense as well as being environmentally sound.
We are also committed to developing our people, and invest Charity in training tailored to meet the needs of the local business, Marie Curie Cancer Care is the Hays corporate charity selected including both structured training and on-the-job training and by our employees.
Marie Curie Cancer Care cares for over briengs.
We are about to embark on a leadership development 25,000 terminally ill patients in the United Kingdom.
Our annual programme for our top global leaders as part of our continued fundraising target for 2007 was 50,000.
Hays employees raised commitment to developing talent in our business.
70,000 and Hays will match this with a donation of 70,000, As part of creating a stimulating place to work, we have a bringing the total donation to 140,000.
This will pay for six number of ways to ensure our employees are involved in the nurses for a year.
We will continue to work closely with their business including brieng groups, senior management briengs, fundraising team using a wide range of our activity-based the intranet as well as an Employee Forum in the UK.
To sponsorship including charity walks, cycling events, marathons encourage our employees to have a stake in the business, and overseas challenges.
we also have a number of share schemes.
Across the United Kingdom regions, our staff also support As a responsible employer of thousands of people, we are a wide range of regional and local charities with individual, committed to our Equal Opportunities Policy which ensures team and ofce-based activities.
that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the business regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, physical appearance, religion, education and beliefs.
