Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Corporate and social responsibility Introduction Improving the quality of our products, processes and services Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is We aim to increase awareness and communication of the included within our group procedures manual which sets out our environmental strategy and commitments through a programme of undertaking to act ethically and responsibly in all of our business employee training.
dealings with stakeholders and includes our ethics, fraud and whistleblowing policies, which are communicated to employees.
We do not We work with our main suppliers to improve working practices and permit bribery, anti-competition or corrupt practices in any dealings.
the environmental management of our supply chain, although we We are committed to continuous improvements in all aspects of CSR recognise that many of our main suppliers already work to exacting our policies, our systems, our performance and our reporting.
We seek to improve in these areas and would comment management structure allows the consideration of social and on our commitment as follows: environmental factors by both individual businesses within the group and also at a group level.
Our links with external stakeholders increase the use of environmental specification.
continue to grow including improved customer liaison and community increase the volume of certified sustainable natural products.
We aim to manage our relationships with our reduce the amount of CO emissions.
stakeholders and communicate with them professionally and reduce fuel consumption and vehicle emissions.
The board has identified its principal stakeholders as reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill.
shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and local communities increase recycling rates.
and also recognises its responsibility to the environment.
reduce the amount of packaging.
Responsibility to the board for relations with all our stakeholders lies increase the use of green energy.
with the Group Chief Executive and the board as a whole reviews reduce water consumption.
encourage the use of whole life cost assessments.
We monitor our performance against objectives with the aim of continual improvement.
In addition to improvements in respect of We seek to reduce energy and water consumption through the environmental and social responsibility performance, we have development of an awareness programme communicated to continued to make positive moves in waste and energy management, employees, the introduction on repair, renewal or installation of supply chain accountability, sustainable development, health and safety energy or water efficient techniques and equipment.
and staff development and welfare.
We continue to invest in new facilities for our businesses which Our policy incorporate modern construction techniques and products.
The group Our policy sets out the framework for the development and has a policy to replace the commercial and motor vehicles it operates implementation of CSR activities across the group.
We will conduct all every five and three years respectively, so improving operational our business activities in a fair and balanced manner, respecting and efficiencies and reducing operating costs and vehicle emissions.
responding to legal, social and ethical issues arising from our Obligations placed on manufacturers have resulted in the production commercial activities.
We are committed across the group to of more efficient and less polluting vehicles.
Progressive replacement continued progress in the following areas: of Euro 2 compliant commercial vehicles with new Euro 4 compliant models, according to manufacturers statistics, has resulted in significant improving the quality of our products, processes and services.
savings in all regulated exhaust emissions: a 62.5% reduction in carbon becoming an employer of choice.
monoxide, a 58.8% reduction in hydrocarbons, a 50% reduction in improving our health and safety performance.
nitrous oxides and a 86.6% reduction in particulate matter or soot.
working with the local communities around our businesses.
Efficiencies achieved in motor vehicles have been less notable with 2 protecting the environment and achieving sustained growth and CO emissions for the majority of the motor vehicles operated profitability.
reducing from 159g to 157g following the introduction of Euro 4 compliant models.
These areas reflect our main responsibilities as the leading European floorcovering distributor.
They will inevitably be widened to Our operations predominantly create waste materials in the form of encompass other stakeholders as our CSR programme develops.
protective plastic wrapping, cardboard and wooden pallets.
Increasingly we collect the plastic and cardboard in discreet types and, Headlam Group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate and social responsibility continued with the use of baler units that we have invested in over the last few The board has put in place policies that seek to ensure that group years, dispatch these to specialist re-processing agents.
operations are carried out at all times in such a manner as to ensure, so far as it is reasonably practicable, the health and safety at work of Wooden pallets are re-cycled where possible or sent to specialist employees and all persons likely to be affected, including other re-processors.
In addition we recycle the cardboard poles that are contractors, customers, staff and members of the public where used in the centre of rolls of carpet and vinyl until they are no longer appropriate.
In these ways we have reduced the amount of waste that is sent to landfill sites.
Guidance on waste management The value of employee participation in delivering this commitment is is issued to the managers of the individual businesses to increase recognised and management teams are encouraged to create a awareness of the need to control waste.
To achieve this we endeavour to ensure that we: We continue to work with our suppliers to improve the re-cycling continue to improve health and safety systems, procedures and content of packaging materials and consequently reduce our guidance.
make personnel aware of this policy.
maintain high standards of health and safety.
Higher risk parts of the facilities, such as fuel and lubrication stores maintain a consistent reporting structure.
and fork lift truck battery charging areas, have containment and provide adequate resources.
inspection regimes which meet legislative requirements.
Investment in automated dispatch sortation equipment has In order to support our customers and develop relationships, we significantly reduced manual handling in those businesses where they travel to their sites when necessary.
We attempt to minimise this have been installed which will in turn reduce the number and impact by the use of audio conferencing, however face to face frequency of reported manual handling accidents.
contact is essential to the business.
The choice of airline routing and number of travellers is generally based on cost and timetable Training in health and safety awareness, impending changes in relevant availability, direct flights and modern aircraft being preferred.
legislation and other specialist subjects is fully supported.
Health and safety activities are verified by regular site audits and inspections.
Good relationships are maintained with national and local regulatory During the year the group health and safety policy was introduced organisations such as the Environment Agency and Environmental into recently acquired businesses.
This coordinated approach, with a Health Departments in the UK.
Processes are in place to keep up to common policy approach throughout the group, improves our date on regulatory issues and are the subject of regular review.
governance and shows additional commitment to being an employer The amount of environmental legislation is growing, resulting in of choice.
Good relationships are maintained with regulators in the increasing training and compliance costs.
Staff training in health, safety areas in which we operate.
and environmental matters is important and is reviewed annually as part of normal appraisal processes.
During the year we have improved policies on work related driving and stress, where new approaches have been launched.
Feedback Becoming an employer of choice from health and safety committees has also been used to develop At the heart of the group are our people who seek to deliver their health and safety improvements.
Whilst we aim for lower levels, the best for the business, which combined with a fair and responsive way low level of accidents reflects the success of our health and safety of doing business, generates a common ambition to add significant policies.
Our policy towards employees is set out in the Directors Report in the section on employment, training and development.
Further details are given in the Directors Report in the section on health and safety.
Improving our health and safety performance The group attaches great significance to the management of the Working with the local communities around our businesses.
health, safety and welfare of both its employees and others.
To this We recognise that our business should be conducted in a socially as end we have adopted a policy that is available for inspection at all well as environmentally responsible way.
Listening to and learning operating locations and which is reviewed on a regular basis.
from what our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders tell us about what is important to them is a feature of how we work.
It has helped us keep in touch with what is happening Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Corporate and social responsibility continued in the markets in which we operate.
We are committed to managing Achieving sustained growth and profitability the social responsibilities connected with our business in an open and Whilst achieving the groups goal of sustained growth and profitability honest way.
We try to make a positive contribution to all the in future years, there are a number of key areas which will assist in communities in which we operate.
We support local community attaining the financial objectives at the same time as meeting our activity and give charitable donations.
Where suitable opportunities corporate social responsibility obligations.
are presented, the focus is on creating links that are sustainable, and on improving the image and understanding of the business in the Through improving our understanding and control of our supply community.
Examples include the provision of work experience chain, we shall continue to investigate the benefits from using green placements for local schools, the use of facilities, employees acting as specification guides and modify our strategy accordingly.
We shall school governors and engaging with local organisations.
continue to work with suppliers to ensure products are supplied from renewable sources and that their manufacturing processes fairly Protecting the environment reward employees and do not seek to exploit.
We shall continue to The board is committed to keeping the environmental impact of the work with our suppliers to investigate the potential for improvements groups facilities and activities to a minimum.
We have a structure in in product design.
Where choice of suppliers is possible, various place that facilitates the pooling of information and resources to procurement methods are used depending on the type of product or ensure best practice is shared across the group.
In recognising our service being procured.
Local suppliers for service functions to our responsibility to protect the environment we have adopted an businesses are used where commercially practical.
There are no environmental policy which is reviewed periodically.
Our policy seeks significant supply contracts which are essential to the business of the to cover the various aspects that affect our businesses, including the group.
following: We place great importance on effectively managing our operations to maintaining a management framework for implementing the minimise the likelihood of adverse impact.
We proactively manage our environmental policy objectives into business decision making, facilities to minimise energy consumption utilising energy efficient alongside commercial, safety and other factors.
Our new sites are subjected to an environmental complying with applicable environment legislation, regulations and assessment prior to any construction taking place.
to any identified environmental issues to be incorporated into the developing operational procedures designed to minimise pollution planning process.
Recognising that development can be potentially risks and to deal effectively with any incidents which damaging, we seek to minimise energy consumption during the occur.
construction of new premises and the effects on the environment.
taking positive action to minimise waste and to encourage Wherever possible, subject to the operating constraints of the recycling wherever practical.
business, existing trees and vegetation are retained and augmented as improving efficiency in the use of facilities, energy, water and raw necessary.
Existing sites are maintained in a tidy condition to minimise materials.
working with our advisors, suppliers and sub-contractors to ensure effective environmental supply chain management, As part of our commitment to sustainable development we work alongside quality, price and other purchasing criteria.
with transport consultants to formulate green travel plans reducing the environmental impact of our products through incorporating car sharing schemes and provision for bicycles when improved design and specification.
training employees to enhance their awareness of, and commitment to, maximising environmental performance.
We recognise that our business operations will be around for many reviewing the groups environmental policy periodically to take years, having an impact on future generations, and to this end we account of organisational, legislative and fiscal changes.
work with local authorities to design new properties which not only comply with guidelines but seek to blend in with their surroundings The group seeks to improve its environmental performance and to through the careful use of quality materials, landscaping and design minimise the impact of its operations.
We support the desire to see development take place in sustainable locations.
This report is not subject to audit by KPMG.
