transform Corporate and social responsibility report In 2007, we commenced a thorough review of our social and environmental impact, in order better to align our desire to act responsibly with our strategic business objectives.
2007 highlights Hikmas core values Founding member of UN Global Compact Honesty, integrity and the highest Jordan ethical standards Developed Group policies on Health Striving towards the highest levels & Safety and the Environment of quality across our business Pledged $250,000 to the Global Fund Respect for all people, regardless of to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria race, religion, gender or background Sponsored 10-day event to support Dedication to the welfare, education entrepreneurship among non-working and quality of life of our employees women in Algeria Care and preservation of our environment Worked with the Jordanian Ministry Investment in the communities in which of Environment to reduce landfill waste we work First pharmaceutical company to join Saudi Arabias National CSR Committee Eliminated non-biodegradable packaging materials at our US facility Transform In Jordan, we are working closely with Tkiyet Um Ali, a non-governmental organisation helping to eradicate hunger.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 29 Corporate and social responsibility report 2007 has been a very successful year for our CSR Introduction programme, and all of the people who have helped to We remain of the belief that we cannot achieve our long-term make this happen should be proud of their contribution goals without maintaining a commitment to quality.
It is a key to the future of our Company.
business objective to operate responsibly, and to achieve our commercial aims within the framework of our responsibilities When Hikma was established in 1979, our founders to a broad range of stakeholders.
This is especially true when it brought with them a set of strong ethical values.
comes to our people and our organisation.
Over the 30 years A commitment to these values has always guided since Hikma was established, we have grown into a successful our decision-making, and helped to ensure that we global company while maintaining the strong ethical principles consider the broader social, environmental and held by our founder.
We believe that retaining these values is economic context in which we operate.
as important to our future success as it has been to our Today, our CSR programme is an important part of our development so far.
In the past, it had been enough that these strategic commitment to our core values.
These values core values were implicit, but in 2006, with a fast expanding complement our strong governance and excellent group, we recognised that a more structured approach was management practices.
required to ensure that we continue to consistently operate under these corporate values.
Our continuing commitment to We know that our financial success rests on a foundation Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is our strategic response to of non-financial performance.
The stronger our reputation, this end.
the better our ability to attract, train and retain the best employees, the more efficiently we use increasingly A structured approach to CSR scarce resources and the more links we have with local Hikmas approach to the management and growth of its business communities.
As a result, the greater our opportunities has always been guided by its ethical standards and core values.
for success in the broader context of our stakeholders.
In 2006 we initiated the process of developing a more structured As the Board member with responsibility for CSR, I am approach, through the implementation of a group-wide CSR pleased to introduce this years review of progress.
A key achievement in 2007 has been the integration I also look forward to working with our CSR Core of CSR in our governance system, and the development of the Committee and CSR Champions to full our commitments operational capacity needed to implement CSR consistently in the year ahead.
across our major manufacturing sites.
CSR is now addressed at key subsidiary level, with corporate support and reporting lines Mazen Darwazah to the Board of Directors, where major policies are approved Executive Vice-Chairman, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC before implementation at the operational level.
Our CSR Core Committee the Committee oversees the development and implementation of CSR-related policies, programmes and activities.
Its membership is drawn from senior management and our various operating subsidiaries, and is headed by a dedicated CSR Manager who reports directly to the Executive Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
The Committee meets monthly and co-ordinates the management, implementation and dissemination of information to the subsidiary-based CSR champions for onward communication to our staff.
The formalisation of our approach to CSR has led to the development in 2007 of some of the first group-wide policies that will apply across all units.
This process began in 2006, with implementation of a Code of Conduct, applicable to all employees, including Directors.
In 2007, the Board approved additional Group-wide policies in areas such as Health & Safety and the Environment.
Helping women grow their business In August 2007, our operations in Algeria organised a series of events over a ten day period in support of women entrepreneurs.
Organised in partnership with the Ministry of Youth and the National Agency for Small Loans, the initiative has helped women develop and grow their businesses.
30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Corporate and social responsibility report During 2007 we established an internal network of CSR Progress to date Champions, starting with our main manufacturing facilities.
The following information provides an overview of our This network is responsible for implementing CSR policies achievements in 2007 and outlines some of the initiatives at a subsidiary level, as well as reporting to the Committee and we have planned for 2008.
As our CSR programme develops CSR Manager.
We now have CSR Champions in place at six sites we will seek to expand its reach to all manufacturing facilities two in Jordan and one each in Portugal, Algeria, the US and across the Group.
We are in the process of training and appointing Health and Safety a CSR Champion in Egypt and will be making appointments at Our top priorities are to ensure that we provide a safe working our other newly acquired subsidiaries.
environment and the necessary training for our people to achieve Our network of CSR Champions enables us to share the learning their potential.
from our six priority sites, so we can improve the effectiveness In 2007 we developed our first Group-wide Health and Safety of our CSR programmes across the Group.
This policy builds on the country-specific policies which of the CSR Champions were held in 2007 to ensure a consistent were already in place.
In 2008, a Health, Safety and Environment understanding of our approach and priorities, and to provide the HSE supervisor will be appointed to each of our main units and information and resources they will need to achieve our goals.
will be responsible for implementing these policies.
In addition, The first of these meetings was a training session held by our all employees at these manufacturing sites will be trained on the CSR Manager to provide an initial introduction to CSR.
corporate Health and Safety policy.
The second session was a facilitated workshop during which the CSR Champions reviewed activities to date, shared their Health and Safety has been one of our data gathering priorities experiences of implementing local CSR activities and developed and the data gathering process is already helping us to develop future targets and work plans.
focused procedures to help us achieve our target eliminating occupational injuries.
The company also has an Ethics Committee which aims to monitor the ethical integrity of the Group across all areas Initiatives launched in 2007: of our business, and is responsible for the review and approval Jordan: Providing health insurance for all employees.
of statements and policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles within the Group.
This committee is chaired by US: Hired external specialists to conduct safety and Michael Ashton, an independent non-executive director.
US: Working on an initiative to reduce injuries.
Building on International Best Practice As the concept of CSR is relatively new in many of the countries Saudi Arabia: Included CSR in training programmes.
in which we operate, we have drawn guidance from existing international best-practice.
We are using the Global Reporting Initiatives G3 guidelines to help inform our approach to reporting.
These guidelines have been particularly useful in helping to develop a consistent group-wide approach to measuring performance and setting targets for improvement.
While our reporting systems are still being rened, we are happy to present some of our first group-wide data in this report.
Additional information will be available on our website during 2008, and we aim to obtain G3 application level C. In 2007 we also became one of seven founding members of the United Nations Global Compact in Jordan.
The Global Compact network includes over 3,000 company members from over 100 countries, and is based on a framework of ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
Our membership gives us the opportunity to engage with companies at both a local and global level, providing us with the opportunity to improve regional understanding of CSR issues by sharing our knowledge and expertise, as well as providing us with learning opportunities and tools for implementation.
Health and Safety Health and Safety 0 100% The number of fatal accidents The number of our products tested at Hikma sites in 2007. for Health and Safety at development, production, distribution, use and disposal stages.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 31 Corporate and social responsibility report People As part of our commitment to ethical standards, we are Hikma has always placed a high importance on our employees working with our suppliers to understand their Human Rights and on employee development.
Dedication to the welfare, and Environmental Policies.
We have started this work by education and quality of life of our employees is engrained in contacting our significant suppliers for each of the key our core values.
Our research and development, production manufacturing sites.
Where necessary, we will work with and management processes depend on a highly-trained, our suppliers to help them meet our requirements.
With the introduction of data gathering on training, we expect to be able to better Targets for 2008: align employee development with achieving our business goals.
Undertake regular training on anti-corruption policies and During 2007, we continued to invest in ongoing education procedures at our main manufacturing sites.
for eligible employees under our Continuing Education Scheme, which support employees in fully-funded further education Launch an anti-corruption manual and provide training programmes.
In addition, we continued to support talented on whistleblowing.
students, providing access to appropriate educational resources.
Environment Initiatives launched in 2007: Care and preservation of our environment is one of our core Jordan: Working towards OHSAS 18001 certification at one values.
We also gain a business benefit through greater efficiency of our facilities.
and control of resource input costs.
In 2007 we adopted a Group-wide environmental policy, which will help us to embed US: Conducting quality control training on a monthly basis.
environmental efficiency into our operations.
Our main US: Implementing a training and corrective action system, environmental impacts are in the area of energy consumption, which will identify and allocate training more efficiently.
water usage, and waste production.
We are working on ways to minimise all three of these impacts.
Ethics One of our major accomplishments in 2007 has been the Pharmaceutical companies owe an extraordinary duty of care collection for the first time of consistent data on energy usage, to their customers, and to the patients using their products.
water usage and waste production at our main production sites.
Honesty, integrity and adhering to the highest ethical standards Gathering the data has helped to raise awareness of our resource are three of our core values and key to our business success.
Our sites have increased recycling or Our Ethics Committee has Board-level representation, and moved towards incineration as opposed to putting waste to oversees the development and implementation of our landll.
2007 also saw two of our Jordanian facilities working ethics programme.
As reported in 2006, we have adopted a Corporate Code of Our manufacturing and operations are energy intensive, and Conduct the code for our employees.
In 2007 we ensured we will continue to investigate ways to reduce our energy use.
that this Code was widely circulated, read and signed by At several sites we are looking at solar energy generation to management and corporate staff.
We have also developed and reduce our reliance on carbon dioxide producing fossil fuels.
implemented a training programme for Hikmas anti-corruption We are also starting to implement energy efficiency projects, policy in which over 200 managers have been trained and will in including energy saving lighting, more efficient variable frequency turn, train their employees.
As a signatory to Partnering Against drive air compressors, increased insulation, and more efficient Corruption Initiatives PACI, we have made a public commitment ofce equipment.
to zero tolerance towards all forms of corruption and bribery.
Many of our sites are located in arid countries where water In 2008, we will launch an anti-corruption manual to help scarcity is a pressing concern.
Supported by our monitoring employees identify and avoid areas of high risk.
This will be and measurement process, we have programmes in place across supplemented by additional training and broader explanation our sites to minimise water usage and to decrease water waste.
of our condential whistleblowing policy, which was previously In some instances, these programmes may require the installation approved by the Board and implemented.
of new equipment that is more water efficient.
We also clean waste water where possible before returning it to external treatment plants.
Another priority is waste reduction.
We manage our waste responsibly and continually look for further opportunities to Community Waste reduction in Algeria $700,000 80% In 2007, we donated a total of $700,000, A new recycling programme has reduced by most of which went to the King Abdullah Fund 80% the amount of cardboard and plastics that for Development which seeks to alleviate poverty go to landfill.
32 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Corporate and social responsibility report reduce resource inputs as well as to reduce waste.
Although We continue to work with a host of local charities and have hazardous waste and other production waste had always been invested time and funds into local projects.
We remain measured and appropriately disposed of, our focus on gathering committed to encouraging Group-wide employee involvement data has led to a greater level of awareness, which has in turn led in our work with charities to build strong, ongoing relationships.
to increased waste reduction and recycling of non-hazardous In particular, in 2007 we worked with Tkiyet Um Ali, a nonwaste.
In addition we continue our multi-site commitment to governmental organisation helping to eradicate hunger in Jordan.
steel, aluminium, cardboard, plastic, paper and glass recycling.
Charitable donations constitute another part of Hikmas Initiatives launched in 2007: role within our communities.
In 2007, we donated a total of $700,000 in cash, most of which went to the King Abdullah Jordan: Installed photocell mixers and purchased new energy Fund for Development which seeks to alleviate poverty in Jordan.
efficient variable frequency air compressor.
The medical donations worth $592,000 were mostly made US: Replaced fast coaters and drying ovens with more energy through the Hashemite Rescue Committee, which offers relief efficient models.
to disaster stricken areas such as Bangladesh.
Other medical donations were made to physicians organising free medical days.
Algeria: Reduced the amount of cardboard and plastics that go to landfill by 80%.
Portugal: Purchased energy efficient equipment and increased Initiatives launched in 2007: water recycling.
Jordan: Partnered with national universities and colleges to allow students to train at our facilities and to undertake Targets for 2008: technical research projects.
Achieve ISO 14001 certification at two facilities in Jordan.
Algeria: Organised a 10-day event for Algerian women working from home.
This event gave them the opportunity Investigate solar energy use at facilities in Jordan, Portugal to exhibit and sell their wares, and was supported by the and Algeria.
Algerian national agency for small loans.
Investigate purchasing renewable energy in the US.
US: Donated test equipment to support science in Centralise the system for recycling of plastics, carton and primary education.
paper at facilities in Portugal, Jordan and Algeria.
Jordan: Donated $25,000 worth of medicines for Africa Mercy, a project undertaken by Mercy Ships to improve the healthcare capacity of African countries by providing medical training and Community surgical services.
Investment in the communities in which we work is a core value at Hikma.
From our heritage as a family-owned company, Targets for 2008: we recognise the importance of taking care of the communities All of the main units will organise an annual Hikma that surround us.
We see ourselves as an integral part of our volunteering day, supported by the CSR Champions.
communities, and we are committed to making those The theme for 2008 will be raising cancer awareness.
communities better for everyone who lives there.
Education is at the heart of Hikmas commitment to society.
To find out more information on our Corporate Social We co-operate with local universities and professional colleges Responsibility visit: www.
com csr in on-site student training, site visits and assistance with research projects.
AMC Jordan Helping students enter the workforce Hikma provided support to a project in Jordan aimed at teaching basic software courses to students from the University of Jordan.
The project was organised by US Aid in co-operation with Microsoft and provided students with basic computer skills needed in todays business environment.
Students were also trained on how to prepare their CV and interview skills.
Over 140 students benefited from the project.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 33
