Corporate responsibility HMV Group recognises that its businesses have social and Listening and responding environmental impacts and that we have a responsibility to We are interested in the views of our employees, customers and manage these impacts effectively at a strategic and operational other stakeholders and, where possible and when relevant, try to level.
In some areas we are in direct control of these impacts, make changes in response to feedback we receive.
We believe in while in others we can only attempt to influence the actions communicating openly and transparently, including feedback we of others.
have received and our response.
This statement contains our approach towards our social and environmental behaviour and management at Group and Product accessibility operational level.
The Group encourages its businesses to We are proud of the wide range of products we are able to implement, where practicable, CR programmes and initiatives, provide our customers: products that reflect the broad interests and to manage their social and environmental impacts in ways of diverse people and cultures, around the world.
We believe in that are relevant to their business, location and stakeholders.
making these products available to all people who wish to have Our CR approach pays particular regard to the following areas: access to them, providing we comply with legal, health and safety requirements.
Our policy regarding accessibility is reflected in health and safety our marketing practices and store configurations.
environmental management Accountability and good governance human resources We recognise that we have responsibilities in all areas of our community affairs business, to many different stakeholders, not least our investors.
We act with integrity at all times, comply with the law and are product responsibility truthful in all our communication.
We have sound systems to marketing.
identify and rectify instances that could potentially damage the Group and or its reputation.
Rewarding ability The Group recognises the commitment and passion its Progress in 2006 07 employees have towards our products and serving our customers.
We encourage continual learning and development, Health and safety recognise ability and reward effort.
We work hard to provide The Group complies with all laws of health and safety, and takes opportunities for empowerment and fulfilment.
We are proud all possible steps to ensure that everyone in our stores and places of the individual service that our employees are able to provide of work is safe while there.
We aim to minimise incidences of through their product knowledge.
accident or incident while in our locations, and we are committed to preventing a reoccurrence of an accident or incident, should it Celebrating difference happen.
We are committed to a system of monitoring and recording We value the different skills that our employees can bring to their our health and safety performance in order to enable us to work: product knowledge and customer service, and celebrate improve continually.
The Group does not discriminate on HMV UK & Ireland introduced Safety, Health and any grounds: respects individual preference, providing it is within Environmental SHE management software in 2005.
Therefore, the law: and encourages a widening of knowledge about people 2006 07 was the second year that accurate accident reporting with different abilities, cultures, needs and personalities.
The number of total accidents reported during the year under review decreased by 45% and reportable RIDDOR accidents fell by 22%.
HMV UK & Ireland Reporting year Number of accidents total Number of RIDDOR reportable accidents 2004 05 134 accidents in total 12 RIDDOR reportable 2005 06 224 accidents in total 9 RIDDOR reportable 2006 07 125 accidents in total 7 RIDDOR reportable 40 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 61 Local Authorities conducted inspections of HMV stores In Waterstones, objectives include: continuing to integrate and no formal notices were served: 15 Chartered Institute of for consistency the former Ottakars stores and to develop Environmental Health one-day courses were conducted with a three-year plan to achieve an annual compliance score 120 store managers, assistant managers and loss prevention staff of 85% across the enlarged store estate.
attending, and all attained the required standard.
Two in-store health and safety briefs were produced and delivered to stores, Environmental management with subjects covered including manual handling and accident We are committed to continually improving our environmental and risk assessments.
performance and, where practicable, to having measurement and The Groups UK distribution centres received two health and reporting systems in place to help us do this.
The Group ensures safety audits over the course of the year conducted by the Risk that all of its subsidiaries comply with all relevant environmental and Safety Manager.
An average audit mark of 95% was achieved, laws and standards, including those particular to their operations.
To date, Store Health and Safety Audits We are committed to continuously improving our environmental have been carried out in 218 stores, with 59% achieving the impact, particularly in the areas of energy, waste and water.
Wherever possible and practicable, we look to increase our HMV UK & Ireland carried out an audit of compliance with practice of recycling and re-use.
The Groups businesses work the Disability Discrimination Act in 2004, and new store openings with our suppliers to try, as a team, to reduce our environmental in 2006 07 incorporated the generic improvements identified, impact and find solutions.
Where we are able to, we encourage including aisle widths, induction loops, low level listening posts, our suppliers to be environmentally responsible in their signage and access.
In the Richmond store a permanent access own businesses.
ramp was installed at the front of the store following consultation In HMV UK & Ireland, a head office recycling scheme with a customer and the Disability Conciliation Service.
In the enabled the recycling of 30.1 tonnes of paper and cardboard Liverpool store formal proceedings were taken out against the and 0.2 tonnes of plastic.
Initiatives implemented in the prior Company due to a lack of a ramp at the store entrance.
Due to year, including energy best practice for stores and head office a pending compulsory purchase order on the store the Company locations and schemes for recycling and paper reduction, maintained that the arrangements in place were satisfactory.
A judgment against the Company resulted in an award of 1,000.
Waterstones Environmental Committee, which was The objectives for 2006 07 of the reintroduction of minimum established in the previous financial year, joined the Joint standard health and safety audits and the introduction of Booksellers Association and Publishers Association Working electronic reporting for the monthly checklist were met, and Group on Corporate Social Responsibility to consider a new company car driving policy was submitted in March for industry-wide approaches to environmental improvements.
approval after the end of the financial year.
The establishment of Energy Champions at store and head In Waterstones, a primary focus during the year was to office locations during the prior year has enabled Waterstones integrate into the health and safety regime the acquired Ottakars to monitor closely areas of energy over-use and this led to a store estate and store managers, including arrangements for reduction in total energy use in 2006 07. the reporting of accidents and changes to operating instructions.
The number of stores recycling cardboard increased during Visits were carried out to all former Ottakars stores to ensure the year and the roll out of recycling arrangements to former that a suitable fire risk assessment was available and that any Ottakars stores has also commenced.
structural or management hazards were identified and action Objectives for 2007 08 in HMV UK & Ireland include an implemented.
Over 200 Ottakars store managers and assistant increased focus on reducing energy consumption and carbon managers were provided with health and safety training to align emissions, including Intranet-based energy consumption them with practice in Waterstones.
These initiatives delivered monitoring for all stores, the introduction of store energy reports to these stores significant improvements to health and and league tables, an incentive scheme to reward green stores safety standards.
and a feasibility study into the introduction of energy-efficient Total accidents reported to the Waterstones health lighting in stores.
In Waterstones, environmental targets include: and safety team decreased to 200 from 207 in the prior year, policies to reduce energy use further: a reduction to the number despite the significant increase in store numbers following of carrier bags given away with store purchases and continuing the acquisition of Ottakars.
This reflects improved standards to work with the Publishers and Booksellers Associations on across the business, albeit there is likely to have been some industry-wide initiatives identified by the CSR Working Group.
initial under-reporting of accidents from former Ottakars stores.
Objectives for HMV UK & Ireland for 2007 08 include: Human resources a further 20% reduction in all accidents: a 10% reduction in The Group does not discriminate on any grounds, including: RIDDOR reportable accidents: implementation of a car drivers gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related policy: implementation of a violence at work policy: delivery to disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
We encourage all store-based loss prevention officers of training for defusing learning and development and are committed to providing aggression and dealing with violence: improve reporting of violent opportunities for all employees.
We also understand that work incidents: complete physical risk assessments for all security is one aspect of an employees responsibilities in life and offices and shoplifting detention areas.
that there may at times be a conflict regarding time availability 41 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility continued between work and family needs.
Wherever possible, we work Community affairs with employees to provide flexibility and appropriate leave The Group provides from time to time financial donations arrangements.
We believe in open communication and provide or practical help in the form of expertise or use of Company a range of opportunities for employees to provide feedback, facilities to non-profit-making bodies and official charities.
directly to their manager, or through confidential means.
Areas include education, research, the arts, community health We aim to always communicate quickly and openly regarding and welfare, innovation and the environment.
We do not the results of staff surveys.
donate to any political party or religious group.
We work with In 2006 07 HMV UK & Ireland focused on a set of initiatives community groups to provide access to our products by people to enhance open communication between its employees.
A new who find accessibility difficult, through disability.
Pulse Survey was introduced, providing all head office and store In 2006 07 HMV UK & Ireland sponsored the NME Awards, and warehouse management teams with the opportunity to NME New Music Tours, in support of new music and emerging contribute to business issues and to openly comment on their talent, and the Mojo Honours Awards.
This was supplemented Through the 13th Annual HMV Football Extravaganza and by the implementation of a new e-mail initiative to enable all sponsorship of the Silver Clef Award for Best New Music HMV employees to make comments and suggestions directly to UK & Ireland raised 535,000 for its main nominated charity, the Managing Director.
A new bi-monthly employee publication Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy.
A further 290,000 was raised was launched to support awareness of new business priorities.
for Comic Relief through the sale of the Little Britain Live DVD.
HMV UK & Ireland continued to advance its equality and Waterstones continued to support its chosen charity, diversity programme.
All head office line managers completed Dyslexia Action, and during the year produced a new information Fair Play at work courses, and a similar module was added to the brochure about dyslexia and Dyslexia Action, which was Assistant Manager for stores Fast Track training and development distributed in all stores.
For Dyslexia Awareness Week 2006 programme.
This is an intensive four-week programme, equipping Waterstones participated in initiatives to raise awareness of participating assistant store managers with the skills required to the importance of reading, which included recommending operate effectively as store managers.
The programme increases 10 dyslexia-friendly childrens book titles which were promoted awareness of the retail environment and entertainment product in all branches, and the provision of an extensive regional public markets and is designed to enhance inter-departmental working.
relations campaign for Dyslexia Action.
com also Also during the year, a new bullying and harassment policy provided a downloadable guide to dyslexia and a recommended was introduced.
reading list, with advice and expertise provided by Dyslexia Action.
HMV UK & Ireland reviewed all aspects of flexible working, During the year, a total of 48,000 was raised for Dyslexia Action a result of which was the introduction of a flexitime working through the sale of charity Christmas cards, in-store collections initiative for all head office, warehouse and field-based and employee participation in the London Marathon.
A policy and procedure update to ensure compliance this partnership has raised funds which have enabled Dyslexia with the Work and Families Act 2006 resulted in enhancements Action to carry out numerous projects, including courses for to flexible benefits for all employees.
parents awareness and early years, teaching and specialist In Waterstones, the integration of Ottakars colleagues was services in the community.
a key initiative for the learning and development team during Waterstones also donated 10,000 to the London Library the year.
This included the attendance of all branch managers to support the librarys acquisitions programme and through at workshops on performance management and provision of an the Hatchards book store is working to promote the work of improved version of Waterstones Continuous Development Plan the library and to encourage membership.
CDP, the principal development tool for branch management.
Objectives for 2007 08 include, in HMV UK & Ireland, A CDP scheme for booksellers was also piloted during the year, continuing support for Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy providing the basis for further activity in 2007 08. through the HMV Football Extravaganza and Silver Clef Award A structured development programme provided support sponsorship: official retail partner status in support of NME for the key business initiative to introduce category management and Mojo Awards and continuing partnership with Warchild.
into the Waterstones head office commercial team.
Waterstones will continue to support Dyslexia Action through Further progress was made in Fast Track development fundraising and awareness-raising activities.
schemes, which continue to operate at all levels.
To date, over 100 booksellers have participated in the Booksellers into Management programme, which centres on the development of managers for the future, with over 60% of these achieving their target positions.
42 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
