Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 HOW we govern the business Corporate social responsibility report Our mission is to supply, from local MFI continued throughout the year, keen to demonstrate that we enact stock, the small builders routine kitchen with our obligation to supply products our policies at a local level making and joinery requirements, with no call to that business only ending on them not only meaningful to staff back quality and at best local trade 21 December 2007.
Other areas but to the local trades people price.
However, as a business which of support continue into 2008.
is part of a local community, we know transformation, about which we that this cannot come at any cost.
spoke in our 2006 report, has therefore Wood continued throughout 2007 a year Manufacturing We have a nationwide business where we had to ensure sustainable As stated in previous reports, comprising: growth for Howden Joinery whilst as a supplier of kitchen and joinery flexing our business model sufficiently products for builders, wood plays 436 depots in order to support MFI.
a central role in what we do.
As such, we always try to source wood 2 Howden Kitchens manufacturing Whilst this has not impacted our efforts in a way thats good for business facilities in Howden and Runcorn to progress our CSR activity, the large and for the environment.
scale change in the business does 3 distribution and warehousing mean that any specific targets, which Our preferred option is to buy centres in Howden, Runcorn use this or prior years as a baseline, will wood which is accredited by either and Northampton be of little value in the future.
As stated the UK Forest Stewardship Council above, we want our commitment to FSC or the Programme for the We are a market leader in our field and CSR activity to be real and sustainable Endorsement of Forest Certification with that position comes responsibility.
and therefore we intend to use this PEFC schemes.
These respected year as a period of consolidation and independent schemes enable us to Our business is built on relationships: reflection in this area, with an aim to source wood and paper products from relationships with customers, suppliers, introducing targets where appropriate suppliers that use sustainable methods employees and other stakeholders, for the following year.
and, as a socially responsible business, we recognise that, in addition to During the year we have reviewed our In 2007, we used more than complying with our legal requirements, CSR policy and the statements which 330,000 cubic metres of chipboard we have a wider responsibility to underpin it relating to the environment, and 8,000 cubic metres of MDF in society which we must marry with ethical sourcing and health & safety.
We also our commercial interests.
This report Like other organisations, our policies used 5,600 tonnes of cardboard shows the actions we have taken over are approved at the most senior level packaging for our manufactured the past year to ensure that this wider and we recognise that management products.
All of this both the wood commitment to our stakeholders is commitment in areas such as CSR is products and cardboard packaging real and sustainable and continues key if progress is to be achieved.
came from accredited sources to progress along with our business.
2006: 100% Unless otherwise stated, the report However, most importantly, we covers the entirety of our business.
recognise that Howdens is a local It is our intention to aim for a similar business: a local business which high standard in the future Although the sale of MFI Retail is part of a local community.
As such, was completed in the final quarter as well as ensuring management of 2006, our obligations to support commitment to our policies, we are 17 GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 17 26 3 08 10:39:42 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business HOW we govern the business Corporate social responsibility report continued Bought-in product Energy Truck fleet Many of our joinery products and In terms of energy, two key The Company operates a fleet kitchen fascias are now sourced from areas where we have specifically of 160 trucks a range of suppliers in the UK, Europe concentrated our efforts at measuring and elsewhere in the world.
and reducing energy consumption All trucks are as a minimum, Euro3 are at our manufacturing sites and compliant, and the Company aims Ethical and environmental sourcing also across our fleet of trucks.
We to improve the standard of its fleet is an important part of the global are also working to increase the of trucks as part of its ongoing fleet supply chain, and we expect all number of energy efficient products management program our suppliers to comply with high which we supply to our customers.
In terms of The number of loads moved by wood based kitchen and joinery Manufacturing rail rather than road has increased.
products, suppliers should either In 2007 our remaining manufacturing In 2007, 64% of inbound containers possess or be working toward FSC sites were re-awarded the Institute from Asia 2006: 49% and 11% PEFC accreditation where possible.
of Energys prestigious Energy of containers from Europe 2006: With the development of new Efficiency Accreditation.
We have nil were moved ex-port by rail.
It is products and the introduction of new now been accredited continuously our intention to increase rail usage technologies, our aim is to increase for more than ten years further in the medium-term where the percentage of bought-in products commercially viable which are from accredited sources Web-based reporting tools if possible.
have been installed at our largest Products manufacturing site at Howden which In line with EC regulations, all Annual audits and continuous will improve energy data collection kitchen appliances must be rated improvement programmes have and monitoring.
We are studying and labelled in respect of energy become an integral part of supplier a plan to roll this out across the efficiency.
Ratings range from selection and development and manufacturing sites, warehouse A-G with A being the most energy we continue to audit a sample of and distribution centres in 2008 efficient.
Some appliances qualify for our suppliers on an annual basis A and A ratings.
We are pleased to verify their compliance with our One of our measurements for energy to say that 90% of our products requirements.
Our team in Asia have consumed, is the energy required are A rated and above and it is our developed a supplier grading system to manufacture one rigid cabinet.
intention to ensure this percentage against which audits are undertaken, In 2007, this reduced 15% year on is maintained or improved upon and we are pleased to say that the year but, as stated above, we will over the medium-term number of A grade suppliers in Asia baseline again in 2008 once the full has improved over the last year.
extent of the restructuring has been The Group is working towards taken into account gaining the Energy Savings By the end of February 2008, our Trust Awards for certain product business had achieved both FSC and Our manufacturing site at Runcorn categories and hopes to achieve PEFC certification, with independent and our warehouse site in Howden this certification in 2008 verification of our depots, primary have been re-accredited during the warehousing facilities and chain year in respect of the environmental All products manufactured and of custody processes.
We are in sourced by Howdens are tested for the process of extending this compliance to relevant British BS accreditation to our manufacturing or International BS EN ISO safety site at Howden and our warehousing standards specific to the product facilities in Northampton industry.
We have extensive in-house GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 18 26 3 08 10:39:43 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 testing facilities in order that testing All of our waste removal companies Health & Safety can take place in-house as well as have been audited during the year The managers and directors in our at third party test facilities to ensure compliance with legislation operating divisions Howden Kitchens and Howden Joinery are personally Waste Employee responsibilities responsible and accountable for the Our employees are encouraged We take our responsibilities as an health & safety of their employees.
to consider how we can improve employer very seriously.
We recognise The health & safety requirements of our environmental performance in that employees are one of the key these two divisions necessarily differ all areas by reducing consumption, stakeholders in the Company and aim somewhat and as such, each of the re-using materials and recycling to provide a positive work environment operating division boards reviews its wherever possible.
for all our staff in whatever capacity.
own strategy, issues and performance A vibrant culture has been vital to on a regular basis.
In 2007, more than 89% of the the rapid expansion of the business 67,000 tonnes of waste produced since its inception in 1995 and we In the depots, there were 49 in our manufacturing operations continue to re-emphasise our unique reportable health & safety incidents was recycled decentralised culture across all areas in 2007 12 fewer than last year.
of our business as much as we can.
Whilst this is still 49 incidents more Cardboard, plastic and timber waste This culture is re-enforced by our than we would like to report, it did from the manufacturing process are commitment to certain core principles: mean that we met our target of segregated from general waste reducing incidents by at least 10%.
Recognising by reward, the hard We will keep working to find ways One element of waste from the work of all employees to reduce incidents manufacturing process is sawdust.
In 2007, we converted over 25,000 Investing in training and In 2007, in line with Government tonnes of sawdust into energy, with development across the business guidance, we also set a target the sawdust fuelling eight biomass across our depots of a 30% boilers that burn this waste to heat Ensuring that recruitment, career reduction in the hours lost due our factories success and progression are solely to injury.
We achieved a 38% determined by an employees reduction during the year 2006: Through an employee initiative, abilities and achievements 29% reductions we recovered 98,000 pallets in 2007 which would otherwise have As announced earlier in the year, In our manufacturing, been scrapped by setting up a pallet further restructuring within our Supply warehouse and distribution sites, repair operation and ensuring business resulted in a number of a complete review of health & safety a more efficient sorting process redundancies at our operations in was undertaken.
Further to this Yorkshire, Runcorn and Northampton.
review, our manufacturing site at A new high volume shredder We are conscious of our need to meet Runcorn has been awarded the was introduced at the Howden not only our statutory obligations to our ISO18001 accreditation.
We are site to further improve levels of staff, but also our moral obligations.
in the process of extending this re-cycling as well as improving the Consequently, we made sure that all accreditation to our warehousing load density of the waste removal affected staff were fully consulted and and manufacturing facilities at vehicles thus reducing the number supported.
That support included Howden and our warehousing of vehicle movements setting up a professional outplacement facilities in Northampton programme, on-site job shops and 19 redundancy counselling.
indd 19 26 3 08 10:39:43 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business HOW we govern the business Corporate social responsibility report continued No improvement or prohibition to make a donation to the charity for notices were served on us this their normally free cup of tea coffee year, and we had no prosecutions and 22 staff took part in the three by the Health & Safety Executive major UK long distance events the or the Environment Agency.
London Marathon, the Great North A caution from the Environment Run and the Great South Run in Agency was received during the order to fundraise.
year in relation to waste disposal at an MFI store which was owned We have also continued our by the Group in 2006 research partnership with the Leonard Cheshire Foundation Charity and local support which aims to develop an affordable, Howden Joinery is a national attractive and practical kitchen product network of local businesses.
for people with physical disabilities.
Each depot, manufacturing site In 2007, we created, donated and and distribution centre is very much installed six further kitchen activity part of the community it serves and centres in Leonard Cheshire homes all our staff are encouraged to make across the UK.
This remains an area a contribution to the local community.
of research with significant potential for ongoing product development, and This year, our staff made more than we continue to sell our Inclusive range 1,400 donations to local good causes.
of bespoke products within the depots.
This amounted to some 410,000 across the Group and as well as cash In September, the partnership between donations and employee fund raising our company and the foundation was initiatives, included donations of joinery recognised at the Third Sector Awards and kitchen equipment to local schools, for Excellence when it was voted best village halls, care homes see below, UK Charity Corporate Partnership.
Both local youth groups and sports clubs.
parties are proud of this achievement and we will continue to build on our Leonard Cheshire is a key community relationship in order to further benefit partner for us.
The foundation is the communities within which we work.
heavily reliant on volunteers to provide services to disabled people Matthew Ingle in the UK and needs to recruit Chief Executive more than 1,000 volunteers a year from local communities to maintain 5 March 2008 this support.
With this in mind, we decided to repeat our 2006 funding of Leonard Cheshires volunteer recruitment programme.
In addition, our depots also raised money through a fundraising awareness week Tea 4 Ability where customers were asked GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
