RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS we acknowledge our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen prioriti WE ALIGN OUR BUSINESS STEWARDSHIP WITH THE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC ISSUES POTENTIALLY AFFECTING OUR OPERATIONS THROUGH A RIGOROUS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OF PRIORITIES, POLICIES AND MEASURES.
We believe that this responsibility the first major parts of IMI to require We have been tested in this area sometimes known as Corporate and receive statements from all key during 2007 with the investigation into Social Responsibility or CSR to the suppliers that they too adhere to our Severe Service business.
Despite communities amongst whom we these principles.
the fact that our pre-existing operate, impacts positively on IMIs first responsible business processes identified this issue and profitability, returns to shareholders, seminar, held in May 2007 and immediately and correctly involved the reputation and growth.
We demand facilitated by independent external appropriate judicial authorities, the sound management of these issues experts in this subject, brought need for an investigation was a major and we call this responsible business.
together our responsible business disappointment.
This breach of the In 2007, IMI plc was again selected leaders from across the Group and standards that we set has prompted a for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
made detailed recommendations to review of all aspects of control across IMI has also taken part in the 2007 the IMI Board.
Intended to further the whole of IMI, particularly with Index of Corporate Environmental embed the disciplines of responsible regard to anti-corruption.
Engagement conducted by Business business in the Companys activities, More routinely, we identify, monitor, and in the Community.
The results will the results are now a formal and forecast legislative developments in be published on our website integral part of IMIs management order to maximise opportunities and www.
com later in the process and a further seminar will be minimise risks.
year alongside our other health, held in 2008.
Our businesses are positioned to safety and environmental HS&E The planning process in 2007 benefit from ever more stringent performance information.
highlighted responsible business government energy policies and As a further public statement of our objectives for each IMI business.
These environmental legislation around the intentions, IMI signed up to the United included identification of future risks, world, particularly in the context of Nations Global Compact UNGC opportunities and measures to ensure energy use in buildings, maximising the in March 2006 and from 2008 we will full alignment of each business with efficiency of electricity generating communicate our progress in this the corporate priorities, as well as plant, emissions legislation impacting context annually using this report specific local objectives.
Typical local commercial vehicles and energy and via our website.
The UNGC actions include measures to improve consumption in bars and restaurants.
encompasses ten individual health and safety, energy efficiency Legislation will continue to impact commitments within four core areas targets and steps to gain relevant responsible business management in of human rights, labour standards, HS&E or quality accreditation in all territories, affecting the majority of environmental and anti-corruption particular facilities.
policy areas eg, HS&E and employment which we also encourage our suppliers Legal compliance remains the bedrock regulations.
Mindful of current to subscribe to.
In 2007, Indoor Climate for any responsible business including legislative requirements and change, and the US arm of our Beverage IMI.
Unlawful activity of any kind is we are focused on four key responsible Dispense business, Cornelius, became completely unacceptable to us.
28 Responsible business Students Callinah Makofane and Maurice Nakabini from the CIDA foundation in South Africa, which is supported by IMI, made a very positive impression on IMI staff and Chief Executive Martin Lamb, during internships with the Company.
es Health and Safety Supporting our customers priorities The scale of the plants operated by We promote a strong culture of health We place significant emphasis on our Severe Service customers is and safety and of environmental helping our customers to meet their such that achieving even just a protection to minimise risk for our responsible business commitments few fractions of a percentage people, the environment, adjacent from diversity targets to carbon improvement in efficiency can mean communities and other stakeholders.
emissions - recognising the substantial benefits to the customer We are committed to effective opportunities for them and ourselves and the environment.
communication and consultation on to protect the planet.
Global concerns The technologies of CCI as well as HS&E matters with all relevant relating to energy issues and climate Orton and Truflo Rona, customised stakeholders, particularly with change, whether driven by legislation precisely for each application, deliver employees.
IMI requires those working or not, have a positive impact on performance improvement as well for us directly, or on our behalf as customer demand for our products as risk reduction that conventional contractors, to comply with our and services - many of which are products cannot match.
clearly dedicated to energy efficient Norgrens proprietary technologies In support of these general operation.
improve efficiencies in a wide variety commitments, IMI and each subsidiary Understanding issues affecting of applications.
Amongst other manages its activities to ensure customers in the Beverage Dispense examples, bespoke solutions help that improvement in these areas is business in Europe, for example, has leading companies in conventional and cumulative and constant.
Businesscreated profitable opportunities in renewable energy markets, while wide HS&E forums were held in Mexico extending equipment life and also for innovative valve and fluid control as well as the UK and the USA.
a dispense system enhancement which solutions address the growing global Successes in 2007, for example, reduces beer waste in stadia a market for water quality and efficient included a focus on employee safety significant competitive advantage.
Norgrens programmes in Cornelius US which To help customers meet their unique Posi-Clik fittings reduce reduced recordable incidents from 39 environmental emissions targets, vehicle weight and air leakage, to 19.
A new programme of health Cornelius uses an insulating foam therefore reducing engine power fairs in our Cannon Equipment specifically designed to minimise global requirements and energy costs for business provides health screening and warming.
To help one of its major truck industry end-users.
advice and almost certainly saved the cosmetics customers address its The efficient use of energy in buildings life of at least one employee whose climate change agenda, our Artform is a fundamental part of our Indoor extreme blood pressure placed him at business fundamentally redesigned Climate proposition with many of imminent risk.
cosmetics displays, providing the worlds most high profile and These and other initiatives have operational energy savings of up prestigious construction projects resulted in the continued improvement to 50%.
relying on TA and Heimeier to achieve in our lost time accident rates, as global warming reduction targets.
IMI plc Annual Report 2007 29 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS four key priorities guide our responsible business agenda respon Supply chain and manufacturing in understood and could meet IMIs supplier evaluation process.
low cost economies demanding legal compliance, quality In addition, IMIs Risk Control team The manufacturing plants established assurance and responsible business conducts regular supplier visits and by IMI in emerging economies have all requirements including adherence to training of procurement personnel.
been developed with full attention the UN Global Compact.
Suppliers are subject to rigorous and to employment and HS&E risks.
Risk Similar conferences will be repeated ongoing audits for all aspects of control surveys are conducted on a in 2008 to ensure full communication compliance from full time quality regular basis typically annually.
teams including a substantial team Major supplier conferences in both Our procurement teams use a riskbased in China, using a standard China and India in 2007 focused on based methodology to assess and global IMI set of requirements.
ensuring that regional suppliers fully audit suppliers as part of the Responsible business priorities and objectives Processes to deliver our four To ensure that any threats arising IMIs detailed policies on the responsible business priorities and from our customers responsible following subjects can be viewed associated objectives are embedded business issues are identified and on the Companys website: across all our operating units and minimised.
Responsible Business reviewed at least annually as part Supply chain manufacturing in low Corporate Social Responsibility of our long term planning process.
cost economies Ethics Successful implementation of these To minimise supply chain Legal Affairs and Compliance priorities, objectives and policies reputational risks to IMI and our Health, Safety and Environment will ensure that IMI maximises its customers.
Corporate Governance opportunities and minimises its risks To manage business efficiency Community related to these issues.
opportunities and threats within Donations IMI and our suppliers.
Human Rights and Employment Objectives To improve our suppliers Communications and Investor Health and safety understanding and actions in the Relations To provide safe places of work area of responsible business.
Energy efficiency Supply Chain To reduce the number and severity To minimise our energy use The performance of our business of industrial accidents or incidents.
units is assessed during an annual Supporting our customers priorities To minimise our impact on the responsible business audit and To take advantage of business environment principally emissions throughout the year through opportunities arising from of CO. 2 other processes such as our risk customer priorities.
To minimise the cost of energy use control surveys and financial To work proactively with customers to improve profitability.
The results of on responsible business issues that To take advantage of business the responsible business audit are could enhance our relationship with opportunities associated with reviewed by the Board.
from the annual audit are published on our website www.
30 Responsible business sibility Programmes targeting our internal use of energy in 2007 included the introduction of an integrated energy management unit at Norgrens main UK plant at Lichfield, which controls lights, gas, air conditioning and air compressors.
Energy efficient lighting has replaced conventional lighting at 3Wire in Osseo and Cornelius facilities in Brighouse UK, Chicago and Reynosa Mexico in 2007.
Optimisation of electricity usage at Reynosa has enabled the plant to use air conditioning more efficiently at peak periods and on second shift.
This facility has also reduced gas consumption in its cold plate furnace by 20% by limiting production to set days and increasing utilisation while The Masayrk Institute, a leading cancer care specialist in Brno opened the furnace is hot.
a new department in 2007, supported by IMI.
The city is home to both Norgren and CCI facilities in the Czech Republic.
The TA plant at Ljung in Sweden continues to set an excellent example in energy self-sufficiency with 29 geothermal boreholes delivering 1200 overall CO emissions is shown on Energy efficiency 2 MWh year, its own water turbine page 7.
Global pressures on energy prices delivering 150-300 MWh year, Regular teleconferences help to have had, and will continue to have, an process heat providing additional ensure that ideas and best practice adverse impact on IMIs energy costs.
heat for buildings, and tap water are shared around IMIs operations In 2007, IMIs gas and electricity heated with surplus energy from air worldwide.
Both CCI in California and costs increased by approximately compressor units.
Previous annual oil Cornelius in Chicago, for example, 5% to 12.1m from 11.4m in 2006 - 3 consumption of more than 700 m a have improved paper and cardboard including an average unit cost year has been reduced to a back up recycling techniques.
The overall impact 3 oil heating system using only 3-8 m Santa Margarita plant now recycles of the 2007 cost increases has been of oil a year.
all its paper, cardboard, cooling fluid, mitigated somewhat by our on-going metal, machine oil, batteries, wood energy efficiency and procurement and computer components.
The positive trend in our IMI plc Annual Report 2007 31 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS we respect and value our relationships with all stakeholders commu www.
org, a businessfocused educational charity in South Africa led to two outstanding South African students receiving internships with IMI.
Our graduate trainees again visited CIDA in 2007 to teach creative problem solving techniques.
We have numerous links with many other educational institutions across the world, but also continue longstanding associations with schools and charities local to our Birmingham headquarters.
In the USA, Display Technologies employees are closely aligned with the Queens Child Guidance Centre which focuses on improving the lives of 10,000 underprivileged children in Queens County, New York, where the business is located.
In addition to financial contributions from the Children at the Snehasadan orphanage in Bangalore welcomed the generosity of a fund-raising effort amongst IMI senior managers, which company, employees play a vital was matched by a contribution from the Company.
role on the charitys board, on its committees and in its business planning processes, with considerable Community engagement fires controlled, CCI funded the benefits for all parties involved.
We seek and encourage good provision of drought-tolerant, In February 2007, personal donations relationships with the local fire-resistant vegetation and made by IMI senior managers during communities in which our facilities supported an ambitious replanting a management conference were operate.
effort organised by local citizens to matched by the Company to support Faced with the extraordinary prevent landslides and restore the the work of the Snehasadan circumstances of raging wildfires in natural habitat.
foundation, an orphanage providing California in 2007, which affected the In China we have very active longfor street children in Bangalore.
lives of many employees and which term relationships with Care for We provide practical support for left many local residents homeless, Children www.
cn university level technical classes CCI donated money, food, toiletries one of that countrys most effective and seminars focused on energy and gift vouchers to the Orange providers of child welfare.
A similar management systems in buildings in County Rescue Mission.
With the association with the CIDA foundation 32 Responsible business nity several emerging economies including In a proactive response to an environmental disaster in October 2007, China, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary.
Sharon Lewis, Manager Corporate Services, and other CCI employees helped This support helps to educate a to replant local hillsides ravaged by devastating firestorms with native new generation of energy conscious plants carefully chosen to counter potential landslides.
construction engineers, architects and system designers.
IMI graduate trainees are encouraged to undertake community placements during their training period, with the Engineering Education Scheme, for example.
This scheme, which encourages schoolchildren to consider engineering careers, is particularly well respected and popular with schools and IMI personnel alike.
Health-related causes continue to receive good support from IMI.
Blood donation drives are held around the world and matching funds are normally made available for employee team fund raising efforts.
The charity devoted to countering the debilitating skin disease Epidermolysis Bullosa, DebRA, also receives substantial support from IMI and remains, along with CIDA and Care for Children, one of the principal beneficiaries of IMIs charity budget.
Across all our businesses, we actively encourage positive contributions to local communities and environments, while still delivering the necessary business performance.
For IMI people, responsibility and business performance are directly and intimately connected.
