Corporate social responsibility sustainable development Imperial is a dynamically developing oil and gas company and is committed to the sustainability of its business.
Our approach incorporates the three generally accepted tenets of sustainable development: environmental, social and economic.
Principally, we are committed to: minimising the impact of our activities on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air, and water environmental protecting the health, safety, welfare and security of our employees and all personnel affected by and involved in our activities social being an integral part of the communities within which we operate, focussing on creating opportunities for the development and success of our employees, their families, and other members of society economic Environmental and social In order to manage effectively the environmental and social aspects of its business, Imperial has put in place a four-level Health, Safety and Environment HSE Management System.
The scope of the HSE Management System follows a hierarchical structure which involves four levels.
The levels from the top down are: Level 1 Corporate HSE Policy Level 2 Operations Management System Level 3 Operating Principles & Technical Guidelines Level 4 Contractor Operating Procedures Level 1: Corporate HSE Policy The Corporate HSE Policy has been established by Imperials Management to set a level of ambition, achievement and behaviour to be attained by the organisation which encompasses Imperials philosophy toward HSE and operational matters.
It provides the framework to guide and inform the HSE standards, procedures and practices for the operations.
Specifically, the HSE Policy mandates that: Effects on the natural environment must be properly managed and reflect industry practice.
The standard of work by employees and contractors meet all specified HSE Management System requirements.
The health and safety of employees, contractors and other affected parties is protected.
The social circumstances in the vicinity of operations are understood, impacts are managed and socio-economic development opportunities supported.
Level 2: Operations Management System The HSE Management System provides a measurable level of attainment that helps operations to conform with the Corporate HSE Policy and provides a system of principles for health, safety and environmental management.
A key part of Imperials approach to managing the environmental and social aspects of our business is the commitment to continual improvement of our processes, systems and outcomes.
We are in the process of looking at ways in which we can augment and update our Policy and Management System to accord with emerging industry practice.
In this light, we will look to broaden the scope of our Management System by more explicitly incorporating a commitment to community engagement on matters relating to environmental and social issues.
The intent is to foster an on-going process to build and maintain a constructive relationship with locally affected stakeholders.
This will also cover the disclosure of relevant operational information and a consultation process that ensures free, prior and informed consultation and facilitate informed participation by the community.
A grievance mechanism accessible to the community will form part of this process.
Level 3: Operating Principles and Technical Guidelines In order to effectively guide, record and monitor implementation of the HSE Management System, a number of documents are required detailing processes such as Risk Assessments, Performance Indicators, Audit Programmes, and Training Schedules.
These documents form the essential parts of Level 3 and 4.
Level 4: Contractor Operating Procedures Underlying the HSE Management System are a set of operating procedures developed by the contractor which are a managementapproved work process complying with the operating standards to be achieved.
A bridging document may be required to ensure that the Contractor Procedures conform to Imperials Operating Principles.
Environmental protection is an integral part of Imperial Energys investment programme.
Imperial Energy uses advanced exploration, drilling and geological extraction methods to ensure the greatest possible efficiency in the use of the Groups resources.
Imperials ecology department has developed and successfully manages an environmental safety system, which includes monitoring the air, water and soil, waste utilisation, and rapid response measures in the event of environmental hazards.
This system forms part of the broader HSE Management System.
Imperial Energy also carries out special environmental protection projects.
As a responsible and efficient subsoil user, Imperial Energy studied the means to use associated gas for its production needs.
In 2007, the Group installed a power generator fired by associated gas at the Snezhnoye field.
The Group has launched its own environmental training program and rewards its employees depending on how well they comply with the Groups internal environmental protection policy.
Economic Despite its relatively short corporate history, Imperial Energy has managed to forge a tradition of community involvement and investment.
Imperial Energy carries out programmes to support educational institutions, creative teams and scientific research, with a special focus on providing assistance to sick and underprivileged children.
Effective implementation of the Groups community commitments is handled by a special department which liaises with regional and local authorities on a broad range of topics on their part concerning the provision of community support.
Imperial routinely addresses a large number of inquiries on providing community assistance.
Imperial Energys subsidiaries - Allianceneftegaz, Nord Imperial, Sibinterneft - and the Tomsk administration agreed to launch a number of economic programmes in the various districts of the Tomsk region.
Imperial spent a total of 1.6 million roubles on these purposes in 2007.
Imperial Energy takes pride in being able to create new avenues of personal growth for people and add value to their lives thanks to its community commitment program.
Imperial Energys charity and sponsorship activities provide an outreach to many people from all walks of life.
Imperial Energy is actively involved in supporting creative endeavors and scientific research in Russia.
The Group provides sponsorship support to a KVN team MaxiimuM and the creative society Dobryata.
In 2007, Imperial Energy used some of its inhouse funds to purchase musical instruments for Kargasosk Orphanage #27 Alenushka.
Imperial Energy devotes special attention to collaborating with educational institutions.
In 2007 Imperial provided financial aid to the Tomsk Polytechnic University for up-grading a computer class.
Every year the company awards scholarships to five students at the Tomsk Polytechnic University.
As part of this programme students are encouraged to undergo internships with a possibility of joining the Company after graduation.
A similar programme has been agreed with the Gubkin Moscow Oil and Gas Institute where another five scholarships have been granted to students from Siberia.
Imperial Energy supports orphanages and helps provide care for the sick children.
Imperial has long-term commitments and also responds to numerous requests from schools, nurseries and medical institutions in the region and provides financial aid on a one-off basis.
Case study: Helping disadvantaged and sick children in Siberia Russia has more orphans today than after World War II with over 700, 000 orphans living in 2,000 state-run orphanages.
Many Russian orphanages lack funds to buy the most basic needs - medical supplies, adequate food, nutritional supplements and winter clothing.
Approximately 12,000 orphans are adopted every year by Russians, and only 3,000 children by foreigners.
Many prospective parents will not adopt sick children or those with any hereditary risk.
As part of its considerable presence and investment in Tomsk, Imperial Energy supports orphanages and also helps provide care for the sick children.
Imperial Energy is an active sponsor of Orphanage 4, the least funded institution of its kind in the region, and home to 65 children aged 7-17.
In the last few years, this Siberian orphanage had not been receiving state financing for repair works, and some of its buildings including the medical centre were in an urgent need of major renovation: re-flooring and re-roofing critical for the health and safety of its inhabitants and staff living and working in harsh Siberian climate.
Imperial Energy donated over one million roubles for the reconstruction works and other needs of the orphanage, as well as supplied its football team with a new sports uniform and has been regularly sending gifts to the children.
Imperial Energy is also a dedicated supporter of the Russian Childrens Fund, a non-commercial social organisation aimed at helping sick and disabled children.
The Tomsk subsidiary of the Russian Childrens Fund was established in 2002 and since then has been involved in numerous charity activities for the local community.
Imperial Energy supports the Fund with regular financial donations as well as by providing funds on a project basis.
In 2007, the Company participated in the purchase of expensive medical equipment for the children suffering from respiratory diseases and acted as a sponsor of numerous childrens holiday celebrations.
The Companys charity efforts also encompass support for the local communitys initiatives including A Common Miracle programme, a charity broadcast on a local TV channel TV2 helping sick children, families in need, young talents, orphanages and other local non-commercial organisations.
Thanks to Imperials considerable contribution a 16-year-old boy with cerebral paralysis received the much needed medical treatment.
Imperial Energys charity activities will continue to focus on helping the most vulnerable categories of the society, sick and underprivileged children.
Case study: Reducing carbon footprint in the Tomsk region Environmental protection is an integral part of Imperial Energys investment programme.
Imperial has taken a forward-looking and responsible approach towards preserving one of the key facets of the national heritage, the nature, and reducing the carbon footprint in the companys main area of operations, the Tomsk region.
On one such assignment, Imperial Energy supported amenity planting initiated by the local government.
In May 2007, Imperial Energy planted out a walk of more than a hundred lime trees in the centre of Tomsk, on the territory of the State Tomsk University campus.
Additionally in the same month almost two hundred wild ash and birch trees were planted out in the central parks of Kargasok and Parabel districts of the Tomsk region.
It is widely known that planting trees is one of the easiest ways to offset carbon footprint.
Trees absorb carbon dioxide to produce oxygen and wood, both of which are very useful for humans and animals.
Each tree planted reduces the environmental impact by breathing in about 730 kg CO2 emissions over its lifetime of 100 years www.
In line with its environment protection efforts, the Company has also introduced sustainable development technologies into its corporate practices including paper recycling with more than one and a half tonnes of paper recycled since April 2007.
Imperial embarks on such green initiatives in order to limit the impact of the oil and gas industry and ensure the long-term sustainability of the environment leaving a positive legacy for future generations.
Board of Directors Peter Michael Levine, Executive Chairman Peter Levine, aged 52, founded Imperial in 2004 and is the largest non-institutional shareholder of the Group.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Chairman on the formation of the Company in 2004.
He relinquished the role of Chief Executive Officer in April 2007.
He graduated in jurisprudence from Trinity College, Oxford in 1977 and qualified as a solicitor in 1980 and specialised in international corporate law.
Peter is, at the date of this report, chairman of the FTSE 250 steel construction company, Severfield Rowen Plc though stepping down from that position in May 2008.
He was formerly the Honorary Consul for the Republic of Kazakhstan in the United Kingdom and joint chairman of the British-Kazakh Society.
Simon Christopher Hopkinson, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Hopkinson, aged 41, was appointed to the Board in December 2006 and appointed Group Chief Executive Officer in April 2007.
He graduated from St Andrews University, with honours in Applied Physics.
Following this he trained at Shell where he spent 13 years leading a team dedicated to optimising drilling and production performance.
In the last four years he worked for Yukos EP, where he was head of development on new wells and most recently Lukoil Overseas where he was director of global projects and asset management.
Christopher is originally from the UK, is a Russian speaker and is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
John Andrew Hamilton, Group Finance Director John Hamilton, aged 42, was appointed to the Board in December 2007.
John has over 15 years of international banking experience with ABN AMRO.
For the past 7 years he has worked in the oil and gas team within ABN AMROs corporate and investment bank in London, most recently as Executive Director where he specialised in upstream E&P.
John has been integrally involved in a variety of upstream oil and gas transactions including structured debt, bonds, convertible bonds, equity and acquisitions.
He holds a BA from Hamilton College, New York and a MBA from Rotterdam School of Management and New York University.
Denis Victorovich Kurochkin, Chief Financial Officer, CIS Denis Kurochkin, aged 36, was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
He graduated from Far Eastern State University, Vladivostok, and is a qualified accountant who trained and spent the first eight years of his professional career at  in Russia, latterly as a manager working for major Russian oil and mineral companies.
Subsequently, he worked in key executive financial roles in leading Russian and international businesses including two years with Sidanco, subsequently TNK-BP, and with ALCOA in Russia.
He is a Russian national and is a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
Ekaterina Evgenievna Kirsanova, Executive Director, Head of Moscow Office Ekaterina Kirsanova, aged 32, was appointed to the Board in January 2008.
Ekaterina was one of the first employees of Imperial, having joined the company in 2004.
Since Imperials inception, as head of the Moscow office Ekaterina has been responsible for strategic co-ordination with ministries and other Russian governmental bodies.
Ekaterina has university degrees in Linguistics and Law.
From 2000 to 2004 she worked for the international law firm PLLG as head of the Moscow office.
Kenneth Peat Forrest CBE, Non-Executive Director Kenneth Forrest, aged 66, was appointed a non-executive director in 2004.
He graduated in chemistry from Strathclyde University in 1965, gaining a PhD from the same university in 1968.
In 1974, he joined the Department of Energy becoming director of the Departments China and Russian unit in 1984.
In 1995, he was appointed director of export oil and gas to the DTI and from May 2000 until he retired in 2002 was the director of the oil and gas business directorate at Trade Partners UK.
Pierre Erwin Godec, Non-Executive Director Pierre Godec, aged 63, Chevalier fide lOrdre National fide la Legion d Honneur, was appointed a non-executive director in 2004.
He graduated from Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales in Paris in 1968.
In 1968 he joined Groupe ELF Aquitaine where he held various positions at their Paris headquarters.
In 1974, he became vice president, and treasurer for Elf North America and from 1979, he was chief executive officer and managing director of various ELF international subsidiaries, including between 1990 and 1993 ELF Neftegaz, which operated in Russia and Kazakhstan.
From 1995 to 2000, he was chief executive officer of ELF Petroleum and ELF Exploration in the UK and since 2000 he has been an international consultant to the oil industry.
Rob Shepherd, Non-Executive Director Rob Shepherd, aged 41, is finance director of Dominion Petroleum Limited, an AIM-listed exploration company focused primarily on East Africa.
He graduated in Mechanical Engineering from Sheffield University and thereafter spent five years working for Shell in the Netherlands.
After completing an MBA at the INSEAD Business School, he joined ABN AMRO Bank, where he worked for almost ten years until the end of May 2007 during which he advised on and arranged financing for both national and multi-national oil and gas companies, primarily in the CIS.
