Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility A responsible approach We believe we can benefit our shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers and the communities in which we operate by running our business responsibly.
We have met, or partially met, all Our strategy is to embed the principles of our objectives, with notable success of Corporate Responsibility into our in environmental management where we business processes and control systems.
achieved all our objectives ahead of schedule.
This enables high standards of corporate We believe that the systems we have in behaviour throughout our business place to manage our corporate responsibility and is demonstrated by our activities are appropriate.
This will assist us performance improvements.
in fulling our duty to promote the success of the company, as outlined in the Performance: Overview and Progress Companies Act 2006.
In 2005, we set a number of performance objectives across four areas: corporate Corporate Responsibility Management: responsibility management, product we have processes in place to manage our stewardship, occupational health safety most significant Corporate Responsibility and environmental management and social issues.
We have implemented a non-financial performance which were to be met by reporting system which enables us to External Assessment Our performance is reected in our progress in the indices by which we benchmark ourselves against other leading companies.
In the assessment conducted by In the Business in the Community We were also rated 70 per cent in the SAM Research for the Dow Jones Environment Index we also received 2007 Carbon Disclosure Project Index Sustainability Index 2007, our overall a Platinum ranking of 95 per cent compared to a food and beverage score was again 73 per cent for our performance sector average of 63 per cent compared with a sector average We were short-listed for the first of 44 per cent 66 per cent in 2005 Financial Times Citi Private Bank In the Business in the Community Environmental Award Meeting the Corporate Responsibility Index, Carbon Challenge.
We were selected we improved our performance from amongst the top six international 86 per cent in the previous year companies for the improvement to 91 per cent and were awarded we have made in carbon efficiency a Gold ranking in Europe, Asia and Africa 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Business Review regularly review our activities and progress.
None of the Corporate Responsibility issues we had previously identied as potentially Our Five Priorities for the Next Five Years material risks in our Corporate Responsibility We have five key areas of focus for our Corporate Reviews had a material impact in the reported year.
Responsibility activities over the next five years.
These are: Product Stewardship: we have implemented further standards for product stewardship We are committed to further improvements and ingredient assessments.
We have also Carbon in carbon management, through energy made provisions to meet the regulatory conservation, lower carbon technologies requirements of the EU Registration, Management and carbon offsetting.
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Regulation.
We are committed to further improvements Environmental Management and Portfolio in how we manage our product portfolio Occupational Health and Safety: in 2006, to achieve an appropriate balance between our energy consumption was down by 13 Balance 1 1 product stewardship, regulatory demand and per cent 2005: down by 11 per cent and the needs and preferences of our consumers.
our carbon dioxide emissions were down 1 by 21 per cent 2005: down by 20 per We will continue to work with our suppliers 1 cent.
We also made progress in reducing Supplier to improve their economic, social and our waste output, our waste to landll and Standards environmental standards.
In the area of occupational health and safety our lost time accident rates remained We will aim for accountability, training and stable during 2006.
We operate in some Local expertise to ensure a more effective local difficult regions of the world and take our Accountability response to Corporate Responsibility issues.
responsibilities regarding the personal security of our employees seriously.
However, during the year regrettably there were four fatalities.
A sales employee and We are aiming to increase transparency that two security guards were assaulted and Policy our policies and standards are routinely and murdered by armed militia in Africa in two Evidence universally observed.
separate incidents and a fatal accident occurred to a contractor at one of our UK factories, when he was crushed by his own vehicle.
In addition, we will continue our activities in the areas of occupational health, safety and environment and community investment, as well as continuing to Social Performance: we invested 1.7 develop our management systems.
million in community activities to respond to local community needs and to encourage employee activities in the communities For more information visit in which we operate.
com cr develop our social responsibility in tobacco production programme involving our suppliers and generally, a good level Independent Veriers Statement assurance statement in the Review.
This of risk management is evident.
on Corporate Responsibility year we have increased the scope and The information and performance data in depth of the assurance in line with the Further information on our performance our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review Global Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines.
objectives and our progress is published has been veried by SGS United Kingdom SGS have evaluated our Corporate in our Corporate Responsibility Review Limited, to determine its accuracy and Responsibility Reporting against G3, in December.
reliability and to give an opinion on our and in their view, our disclosure is at Corporate Responsibility performance level B.
The maximum achievable level reporting.
This opinion can be found in their is A.
1 Absolute values for financial year 2006 compared with 2001 base year.
com 29 Directors Report: Governance 30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance Directors Report Governance Directors Report: Governance 32 Board of Directors and Chief Executives Committee 34 Report of the Directors 37 Corporate Governance Report 48 Directors Remuneration Report www.
