Corporate Social Responsibility The Board recognises the growing awareness of social, The Company does not manufacture satellite user terminals: environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to however the terminals are developed by manufacturers who take into account the interests of the Groups stakeholders, provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals should including its investors, employees, suppliers and business be utilised.
Controls are in place to ensure that antennae do partners, when operating the business.
Through the not radiate any power at low elevation angles.
embedded risk management process within the Inmarsat 1 Core operations, any significant social, environmental and The Group currently operates a number of ground earth ethical matters are brought to the attention of the Board.
stations where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and there are As the Directors of the Group have no control over the regular health and safety checks to ensure that they are in business of CIP, they do not have access to provide information protected areas away from access by the general public.
relating to corporate social responsibility within CIP.
Personnel who work at these sites are provided with relevant training as to the health and safety issues.
Code of Conduct 1 1 Inmarsat Core maintains and requires the highest ethical Inmarsat Core has adopted the highest industry standards standards in carrying out its business activities and has in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life specic guidelines for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when fraud, the use of inside information and whistleblowing.
they reach the end of their commercial life.
The first disposal of one of the satellites was completed during 2006 and there The Company has complied with the requirements of the are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 to adopt a Code of Ethics which remaining satellites.
states that the Group expects its Directors, ofcers and employees to conduct business in accordance with the The mobile handheld voice services handset, called the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
ISATPhone, uses a GSM based design which follows strict The Code of Ethics is published on the Companys website.
health and safety regulations imposed by EU standards and complies fully with the ETSI European Telecommunication Employment Standard Institute regarding the radiation limit.
1 Inmarsat Core has established policies which address key corporate objectives in the management of employee Inmarsat continues to monitor its energy use and impact on 1 relations, communications and employee involvement, training the environment.
Inmarsat Core regularly reviews legislation and personal development and equal opportunities.
to ensure that it meets its corporate and social responsibilities through institutions such as the Carbon Trust, British Institute The Company operates a Staff Forum made up of the of Facility Management and the Chartered Institute of Building Executive Management Board and elected employee Services Engineers.
Designated staff regularly look at solutions representatives.
It meets frequently during the year to brief to reduce consumption and feedback is given to all staff on staff on business performance and to discuss the corporate progress together with the monthly publication of recycling environment.
It also meets when the input of staff is required gures.
Electricity is the primary energy source for Inmarsats on business issues, which includes statutory consultation under headquarters building and has been the focus of attention.
In 2007, 7,414,080 kWh of electricity was consumed which equated to a 12% reduction from the previous years The President and Chief Operating officer has been identied consumption and is a saving of 428,555kg of CO. Energy 2 as the Board Director having responsibility for health and safety consumption is now lower than in 2002.
1 issues in the Inmarsat Core operations.
The Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, safety and In June 2007, Inmarsat introduced a Waste Recycling Scheme.
welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy All under desk bins were removed and replaced with waste working environment for them and for its visitors and substations for dry recyclables, non-recyclables and condential contractors.
Regular health and safety audits are undertaken waste.
This initiative has been embraced by staff and has 1 at the main operating sites of the Inmarsat Core operations.
proved popular and very successful.
After six months, 431,110 kg of waste had been recycled which equates to a saving of 3 The well-being of staff is important to the Company, reected 216 m of landll.
The plan is to recycle 85% of all waste and in the range of activities the Company arranges for staff from in conjunction with suppliers, schemes are currently being 1 social activities to improving health awareness.
Inmarsat Core introduced to meet this objective.
runs annual health promotion days providing employees with the opportunity to speak to visiting health companies and Energy and the environment continues to be a major focus in practitioners.
2008 and has full Board backing with the aim of continuing to reduce the carbon footprint of the business.
Environment 1 By their nature, the activities of Inmarsat Core are judged to have a low environmental impact and are not expected to give rise to any significant, inherent environmental risks over the next twelve months.
Inmarsat plc 1 31 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued Community Safety at sea remains a primary commitment for Inmarsat 1 Core.
The Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS service gives maritime users complete confidence that if they send a distress call, it will be received by a rescue authority.
The Group continues its commitment to the support of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications relief aid organisation.
It has supported the charity for more than six years through direct funding and the provision of free satellite terminals.
TSF is able to reach disaster areas quickly and helps other aid charities with their communications needs whilst also providing the opportunity for those affected to call relatives.
In addition, the Companys Universal Service Obligations USO seek to support the use of Inmarsat services in rural and remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
These services take the form generally of payphones in rural villages, for example in India and Australia.
In China, the Company is actively involved in a number of land and maritime USO projects which have resulted in implementations during the second half of 2007.
In collaboration with ACeS the company with whom we signed a collaboration agreement in September 2006 to provide handheld voice services, Inmarsat has the opportunity to support land-based USO requirements throughout SE Asia.
During the year, the Company funded the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime University to support the education of maritime specialists.
Inmarsat encourages internships with universities to provide students with the opportunity to experience first hand the engineering and technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, Inmarsat supported the International Space University by funding two half scholarships for students in its Masters Program.
As part of its commitment to the local community, during the year Inmarsat hosted a large group from East Side Young Leaders Academy EYLA.
EYLA works with groups of boys from the African and Caribbean communities to offer support and mentoring in education and to develop opportunities for its young members.
Twenty-five members enjoyed a background brieng on the Inmarsat satellite system, tested the BGAN voice and data service and then made calls home using a satellite phone.
These young guests enjoyed their day and found meeting members of Inmarsats highly qualied, globally resourced team an inspiration for their future aims.
UK-based staff are encouraged to support individual charities of their choice through the HM Revenue & Customs approved Give As You Earn scheme.
The payroll-based scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their charitable donations.
Inmarsat plc 1 32 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
