Business review continued Operating model Global room count by ownership type at 31 December 2007 IHGs future growth will be achieved predominantly by managing and franchising rather than owning hotels.
Approximately 580,000 rooms operating under Group brands are managed or franchised.
Owned and leased The managed and franchised fee-based model is attractive because Managed it enables the Group to achieve its goals with limited capital Franchised investment at an accelerated pace.
For this reason, the Group has executed a disposal programme for most of its owned hotels, releasing capital and enabling the return of funds to shareholders as well as targeted investment in the business.
A key characteristic of the managed and franchised business is Continuing operating profit by ownership type at 31 December 2007 that it generates more cash than is required for investment in the business, with a high return on capital employed.
Currently 86% Owned and leased of continuing earnings before regional and central overheads, Managed exceptional items, interest and tax is derived from managed and franchised operations.
Franchised Before regional and central overheads, exceptional items, interest and tax.
Business relationships IHG maintains effective relationships across all aspects of its to support and facilitate the continued development of IHGs operations.
The Groups operations are not dependent upon any brands and systems, with specific emphasis during 2007 on the single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the extent of relaunch of the Holiday Inn brand family.
Additionally, IHG and its brands, market segments and geographical coverage.
For the IAHI began working together to develop and facilitate key example, IHGs largest third-party hotel owner controls less Corporate Responsibility CR initiatives within the IHG brands.
than 4% of the Groups total room count.
Many jurisdictions and countries regulate the offering of franchise To promote effective owner relationships, the Groups agreements and recent trends indicate an increase in the number management meets with owners on a regular basis.
In addition, of countries adopting franchise legislation.
As a significant IHG has an important relationship with the IAHI The Owners percentage of the Groups revenue is derived from franchise fees, Association.
The IAHI is an independent worldwide association the Groups continued compliance with franchise legislation is for owners of the Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, important to the successful deployment of the Groups strategy.
Hotel Indigo, Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites brands.
IHG and the IAHI work together 8IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW People Defining IHGs commitment to our people While Winning Ways define what is expected from all employees IHG directly employed an average of 10,366 people worldwide at IHG, the Group also developed standards that characterise during 2007.
When the managed and franchised hotels are what employees can expect from IHG.
Four promises encompass included, approximately 315,000 people are employed globally the IHG commitment, internally called Room to be yourself and across IHG's brands.
Unless otherwise stated, any data in this describe the work environment that employees can rely on at IHG.
section relates to the people directly employed by IHG and those who work in managed hotels, in total approximately 93,000 people.
Talent management focus To meet the demands of growth and to deliver IHGs core purpose, Culture of Winning Ways Great Hotels Guests Love, IHG implements an ongoing talent Winning Ways, a set of behaviours that define how IHG interacts management agenda.
In 2007, this strategy was manifested with guests, colleagues and hotel owners was developed in 2006 in key programmes designed to attract, retain, and inspire and integrated into the business in 2007.
IHGs people have employees across the owned and managed hotel portfolio, embraced these behaviours with enthusiasm and creativity corporate offices, and reservation centres.
They are as follows: focus on fulfilling expectations, developing skills and leadership, providing competitive rewards and benefits, measuring progress, Do the right We aim to do what we believe is right and celebrating diversity, leveraging technology and ensuring safety.
thing have the courage and conviction to put it into IHG made progress in every category in 2007. practice.
We are honest and straightforward Strengthening leadership and see our decisions through.
IHG has a number of development programmes in place to support leaders in hotels and corporate offices to deliver Great Show we care We want to be a company that understands Hotels Guests Love.
These include the assessment of individual peoples needs better than anyone else in our potential and capability, along with clarity on expectations and industry.
This means being sensitive to others, business-related education.
In 2007, IHG launched the third stage noticing the things that matter and taking of its senior leadership programme, concentrating on the role responsibility for getting things right.
leaders play in driving performance and results through people.
Aim higher We aim to be acknowledged industry leaders, The succession planning process for key senior leadership roles and have built a team of talented people was reviewed and refined, enabling IHG to manage proactively who have the will to be the best.
We strive changes in leadership.
As part of this review, several key for success and we value individuals who are appointments were made, demonstrating the strength and depth always looking for better ways to do things.
in IHGs senior management team.
The following senior appointments were made in 2007: Celebrate We believe it is the knowledge of our people the appointment of Ms Ying Yeh as an additional independent difference that brings our brands to life.
We do not Non-Executive Director of IHG, effective 1 December 2007: impose a rigid, uniform view of the world.
Our global strength comes from celebrating the internal appointment of Peter Gowers as President local differences, while knowing that some of the Asia Pacific region, effective 1 November 2007: things should be the same.
the internal appointment of Kirk Kinsell as President of the EMEA region and member of the Executive Committee, effective 1 September 2007, succeeding outgoing President Work better We are at our best when we collaborate and Board Member, Richard Hartman, who retired on together to form a powerful team.
We listen to each 25 September 2007: and other and combine our expertise to create a strong, focused, supportive and trusted the external appointment of Tom Seddon as Chief Marketing team of people.
Officer and member of the Executive Committee, effective 1 November 2007.
Biographical details of the above are set out on pages 26 and 27 of this Report.
