Business review continued Communicating and measuring progress Leveraging technology Great emphasis is placed on employee communication, IHG is leveraging technology to improve communications and particularly on matters relating to the Groups business and engagement with employees.
In 2007, the Group introduced its performance.
Communication channels include global an upgraded corporate intranet site, Merlin, which provides management conferences, team meetings, informal briefings, continuous access to people information, policies and news.
A best-in-class recruitment management system, e-Careers, reduces time to access and hire the most qualified candidates.
Regular employee feedback is obtained to ensure that IHG meets expectations and delivers on its commitments.
The Group Ensuring health and safety conducts a twice-yearly survey that measures employee opinion IHG applies high standards of health and safety equally to and attitudes.
This survey covers employees in owned and all employees and guests.
The Group strives to provide and managed hotels, corporate offices and reservation centres.
maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises and to comply with relevant The first survey in 2007 achieved a very high response rate of health and safety legislation.
Further details can be found in 83%, with over 77,500 employees participating.
IHGs key measure the Corporate Reputation section of the Annual Review and is the engagement index.
This is constructed from a set of Summary Financial Statement 2007 and in the online questions which measure advocacy, retention and effort.
com responsibility During 2007, IHGs engagement index improved by 5 percentage Celebrating diversity points to 65%.
The survey also reported that nine out of IHG benefits from the diversity of its employees, owners, business 10 people are proud to work for IHG and 84% of employees partners and guests.
The Group regards diversity as a fundamental would recommend IHG as a good place to work, a figure that factor in its success in operating as a global organisation and this is 10 percentage points higher than external benchmark data principle is embedded in IHGs Winning Ways.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity The survey highlights that initiatives undertaken during the year to all employees without discrimination and continues to be on Winning Ways and Room to be yourself are strongly correlated supportive of the employment of disabled persons.
Where existing to employee engagement.
employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide Continuing skills development continuing employment wherever practical in the same or an During the year, IHG continued to place importance on the alternative position.
growth and development of its people in the owned and managed Code of Ethics hotels, and within its corporate and reservation offices, and Among the Groups core values is the concept that all employees ensured training programmes were available to all of its should have the courage and conviction to do what is right.
The Groups internal surveys indicate that the Groups global Code of Ethics and Business Conduct consolidates majority of employees agree that IHG delivers training to and clarifies expected standards of behaviour and communicates assist with both current roles and future skills development.
the ethical values of the Group.
The code is applicable to all Rewarding people by offering competitive compensation employees and is available on the Company's website at and benefits www.
com corporate IHGs compensation and benefits programmes are designed to be competitive and to recognise and reward achievement.
The benefits offered to employees vary according to region.
IHG contributes to both mandatory and company-sponsored retirement plans to ensure benefits are competitive within each local market.
The majority of employees believe they are fairly paid for the work they do.
10 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
