66 Corporate governance CASE STUDY CONTROLLING DUST EMISSIONS Coleto Creek, Texas The combustion of coal produces small The challenge for Coleto Creek, in constructing particulates which have to be captured the new baghouse, was how to complete the prior to their emission from a power installation without disrupting the operation of station to prevent environmental damage.
In addition, the existing precipitators Historically, the equipment used for this treated flue gas upstream and the baghouse was consisted of electrostatic precipitators designed to take the flue gas downstream of the which use electric charges to attract air preheater.
This meant all of the ductwork and hold the particles.
These devices from the boiler had to be modified.
work very well when a plant is at full The solution was to construct the baghouse to load, however are less effective during the side, while the boiler was operating, then start-ups and shut-downs.
connect the new ductwork routing flue gas to Fabric filters, commonly called baghouses, the baghouse during a planned outage.
The provide significant advantages over electrostatic project commenced in June 2006, and was precipitators for the capture of dust and also successfully completed during a scheduled mercury particles.
These work very much like outage in 2007.
The baghouse has now passed a domestic vacuum cleaner.
The expelled flue all necessary regulatory performance tests and gas is drawn across bags which trap the is currently meeting all of our performance particles before the flue gas escapes.
captured matter is collected and sold as an ingredient for concrete.
Coleto Creeks environmental performance has attracted recognition from the US Environmental Coleto Creek, Protection Agency who presented the plant with Texas an Environmental Excellence Award in 1993.
In 2006 Coleto Creek decided to further improve environmental performance by upgrading its technology to state-of-the-art particulate control, installing a baghouse, to further reduce dust emissions and prepare for future mercury emissions-related regulations.
