80 Employees EMPLOYEES A WORLD CLASS BUSINESS NEEDS SKILLED AND TALENTED STAFF International Power operates in a highly complex business environment and an increasingly competitive international market for key skills and talent.
We recognise that the capability and endeavour of our employees makes us competitive, most critically in the areas of greenfield development and construction management, acquisitions, managing existing assets, project finance, plant operations, trading the output from our assets and relationship management with key industry stakeholders.
Consequently, we place the highest priority on the selection and retention, engagement, training and development of staff at all levels, whether employed by us directly or, as is often the case, by our subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
In light of our strategy to balance risk through operating a broad portfolio of technologies in a range of markets, our asset ownership structures often lead to the sharing of influence over people issues.
Our senior management team establishes the important principles, guidelines and standards of good governance by which employees at our assets are employed.
This ensures an appropriate measure of consistency, whilst affording the flexibility to plant managers to respect national cultures and comply with local employment regimes.
International Power Annual Report 2007 81 Communications Clear communication links are critical to enhance business and commercial awareness throughout our business.
Corporate publications, the International Power website, employee awareness briefings from executive management and team briefings are all used to promote communications and an understanding of the development and application of policies and strategy.
We continue to invest in the latest technology to aid rapid communication with all staff around the world.
Learning and development We continue to focus on the development of our employees to ensure the business continues to be well placed for the future.
2007 saw an increasing focus on developing high performing and high potential international managers.
Global leadership programmes for high potential International Power and its subsidiaries employs managers, which began in 2006, continued as approximately 3,700 people in 20 countries.
a partnership between International Power and Our global expatriate and regional senior Ashridge Business School, with two additional groups management teams are responsible for managing successfully completing programmes in May and our power plants to ensure we embed our values, October 2007.
The participants were drawn from operate effectively, monitor investments and drive every region and represented the diverse skill sets growth in the business.
It is for this reason that we present within the Group, providing an excellent continue to invest heavily in the development of this opportunity for knowledge sharing.
group and have in place a balanced, yet highly Given our rapid growth over recent years, in 2007 leveraged, incentive structure focused on performance we also reviewed the behavioural competencies that at plant, regional and Group level.
will be critical to the Group in future.
These will We continue to operate a number of share-based increasingly provide a platform for monitoring and long-term incentive plans and see these as an integral guiding leadership behaviours across our key part of our strategy to align the interests of managers international and corporate management population.
and many employees with the Groups performance.
By way of illustration of some of the training activities As a consequence of rapid growth through at our plants, we continue to operate a behaviouracquisition, in recent years we have acquired new based safety initiative as a way to improve power groups of skilled people, from whom we can learn station health and safety management.
This and with whom we can share best practice.
programme, Fresh Eyes, focuses on people rather than plant or procedures.
It involves a colleague We value our reputation as a caring employer, rooted observing their peers and giving feedback on safe in the communities in which we operate.
We seek behaviour and unsafe behaviour.
This has helped us to attract and retain high calibre employees locally, maintain the highest levels of health, safety and where possible, including those with often scarce environmental standards.
Recruitment activity from within the Group has In line with our FIRST core values, which are set out continued to grow successfully in 2007, with an on page 96, we endeavour also to ensure that all increase in global and domestic relocations.
of our staff conduct themselves in a manner of the Systematic advertising and the broad internal highest integrity at all times.
A Code of Conduct is communication of vacancies have allowed employees used by employees and their managers to provide to seek out opportunities within the Group.
Labour guidance on the standards of conduct that the Group turnover remains low.
The launch of our 2008 requires from its staff.
graduate development programme should support the further strengthening of our people development from within the Group.
82 Employees Rewarding employees In summary, our approach to rewarding employees is to provide: an interesting and challenging job which suits the skills of the employee: appropriate learning and development opportunities: opportunities for personal progression: competitive pay and benefits: an emphasis on long-term incentive and short-term bonus plans, as well as a broad commitment to employees owning shares in International Power plc: an emphasis on the communication of total rewards, which seeks to place a positive value on many of the intangibles of the employment relationship.
The Group operates a range of pension plans Equal opportunities and diversity internationally, with defined benefit arrangements in the workplace in the UK and Australia.
In 2007, a strategic review In line with our core cultural values and in recognition of our UK pension arrangements was initiated and of the very wide diversity of our employees and we continue to consult with employees and their business partners across the globe, International representatives to ensure the most appropriate Power remains fully committed to the provision solution is achieved for the Group and our employees.
of equal opportunities and the elimination of No changes are being considered which effect discrimination of any type in our Group.
approach extends itself to the fair treatment of International Power has in place a number of sharepeople with disabilities in relation to recruitment, training and development.
based incentive plans under which employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies may acquire Further, we believe wholeheartedly that it makes shares in International Power plc.
These plans form sound business sense to benefit from the wide an integral part of the Groups strategy to provide ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all appropriate reward and retention strategies for sectors of the societies in which we have a presence.
employees and to align employee and shareholder In recognition of this, cultural awareness and diversity interests through incentive targets based on clear training is provided to our employees prior to financial criteria.
Executive Share Options are granted to employees A number of our plants are active participants in in 13 countries.
The Global Sharesave Plan is in diversity organisations.
For example, in the UK, operation in five countries, whereby employees save Rugeley power station is accredited with the Positive for three or five-year periods to purchase International about Disability standard.
All businesses are Power shares at a discounted price.
We are restricted encouraged to seek Investors in People status.
from offering these plans more widely because of legislation relating to securities.
International Power uses a variety of techniques for assessing job applications as part of its selection process.
Where external selection techniques are implemented, management work hard to ensure that the providers are able to demonstrate that their methodologies are free of bias.
Internal selection processes revolve around objective assessment of the candidates.
