72 Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY A SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS NEEDS TO BE A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Business impact Our CR performance includes our management of the impact of emissions to air and water, other Our aim is to ensure that International Power is environmental impacts, health and safety, employment known throughout the world as a responsible, and human rights, and community development.
Our stakeholders A reputation for good CR performance is essential our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, to our business since it influences our relations with regulators and host communities expect nothing governments and regulators, our ability to recruit the less of us.
best people, and our standing with other stakeholders, Electricity is a unique product that has the power to including customers and local communities.
enhance the quality of life for people throughout the The measures necessary to combat global climate world.
Companies involved in the provision of this change represent one of the biggest potential risks commodity must also demonstrate responsible and First Hydro, to our business.
Government action to meet the Kyoto ethical working practices.
For a global wholesale UK Protocol and subsequent CO reduction targets will, generating company like International Power, this 2 over time, increase the cost of emitting carbon.
These equates to following fair and ethical principles to measures will alter the economic balance between govern the way we manage and conduct our different fuels, favouring low carbon and renewable business.
It means working in a smart and integrated technologies.
New business opportunities may be way by ensuring our key competencies, technical created to exploit renewable energy technologies expertise and best practices are properly and potentially also carbon capture and storage implemented over a widely dispersed and diverse technologies.
Our aim is to generate energy in range of assets to produce power, water and process an efficient way, to develop low-carbon technology heat safely and cleanly.
It also means that corporate and expand our renewables portfolio.
responsibility CR forms an integral part of our business decision process and contributes to our global competitiveness and reputation.
International Power Annual Report 2007 73 In December 2007, under a new federal government, Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and is planning to introduce an emissions trading scheme across a range of industrial sectors, including the power industry, by mid 2010. International Power Australia participated in a comprehensive study of such a scheme in the first half of 2007 drawing on its experience in Europe and is currently engaged with the new federal government on its design and implementation.
The power generation industry in the US is facing some uncertainty as the government begins to address carbon emissions reduction.
As a result there are several state and federal programmes being considered which would establish incentives for low carbon emissions.
We expect the federal government to design and implement a more definitive CO 2 emissions policy and trading mechanism over the IPR European wind portfolio, medium-term.
Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands Significant CR issues Our senior management team regularly reviews To track our performance in implementing this strategy the significant CR issues relevant to our business.
we measure the carbon intensity of each unit of These are: electricity generated, across our portfolio.
The average carbon intensity of International Powers global portfolio management of health and safety of our has fallen consistently over the last three years, in 2007 employees and contractors: the average carbon intensity was 0.694 kg kWh down the consequences of climate change leading to from 0.715 kg kWh in 2006 and 0.736 kg kWh in national and international regulation of CO 2 2005.
We use net reporting for CO, which reflects our 2 emissions: ownership interest in a power plant.
Whilst we measure the carbon intensity of our output, and seek to reduce measures to control our environmental impacts, it, we do not have a specific target for reducing total especially emissions to air such as SO, NO and x x CO emissions.
There are two principal reasons for this.
particulates: 2 Firstly, we are a growing company and any fossil fuel maintaining high standards of business ethics: stations we add to our fleet will add to our aggregate CO emission level.
Secondly, we are a demand-led local community programmes.
We are obligated to generate electricity to Corporate responsibility governance meet the market demand and we are committed to keeping the lights on.
For our carbon footprint to Management of CR issues reduce, we require less electricity consumption by our Corporate responsibility matters relating to customers.
We are, however, committed to running our International Powers activities are governed by the assets in a responsible manner, complying with all senior management team, and in particular the CEO, relevant legislation and taking into account our who has overall responsibility, assisted by the Company obligations to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Secretary, head of operations and engineering, and the health and safety manager.
The CEO gives CR briefings EU member states are committed to meeting existing to the Board at every Board meeting, and the Board EU-wide legislation designed to tackle climate change.
also receives a summary of Group-wide CR issues in Under the Kyoto Protocol, the EU is planning an the annual Risk Report.
8% reduction from 1990 levels in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, and is seeking to achieve this Day-to-day management of CR is performed by our through a number of measures.
Firstly, the EUETS is a regional directors, plant managers and employees.
market trading mechanism designed to promote the Their work is overseen by the HS&E management reduction of CO emissions across European industry.
2 committee and the human resources group, the latter In addition, the EU Renewables Directive sets individual being responsible for employee matters and national targets for the amount of energy to be compliance with human rights legislation.
All obtained through renewable sources.
During 2007, EU employees are expected to play a role in maintaining member states agreed to new, longer-term binding International Powers status as a responsible business.
targets a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and 20% of renewable energy by 2020.
These targets will be apportioned between member states and implemented through new directives.
74 Corporate responsibility Standards All International Power plants, where we have operational control, have ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 certification, except Tihama where construction was completed in 2007.
We expect Tihama to reach these standards in 2008.
At plants in which International Power is not the majority shareholder, we seek to agree with venture partners that we will jointly obtain these standards.
Our performance in the Business in the Community BITC CR Index improved between 2004 and 2005.
In 2006, BITC changed its methodology from a numerical ranking to a bronze, silver, gold or platinum award.
For 2006 we were awarded a gold overall, with a platinum in the Environment Index and a silver in the Community Index.
In addition to our BITC ratings, we are a member of Ras Laffan B, the FTSE4GOOD index, which identifies companies Qatar that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
The selection criteria for this index include HS&E management committee environmental sustainability, stakeholder relationships The HS&E management committee includes and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
representation from each region and plant.
The committee meets quarterly to discuss HS&E issues, Human rights and Code of Business Conduct and shares best practice across the portfolio to ensure We endorse the United Nations Declaration on all plants operate to the highest possible safety and Human Rights.
This is supported by our own Code of environmental standards.
Business Conduct and human resources policies.
We apply human rights principles rigorously for our own In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by employees, and we seek to influence our partners, establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee to contractors and suppliers to apply the same standards.
oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the HS&E management committee.
It will review HS&E Our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all reports as well as any major incidents and issues of International Power employees, includes clauses on public concern.
It will meet at least once a year at complying with our ethical, environment and health a power station, where the committee will discuss and safety policies.
It also covers competitive practices, HS&E issues with the plant manager and relevant conduct in the community and charitable donations.
We distribute copies of the Code to all employees, and make it publicly available on our website.
All Auditing CR plant managers are responsible for overseeing Our internal audit team reviews all International implementation of the Code.
Power plants and this includes an audit of key corporate responsibility performance.
We also work with joint venture partners to try to ensure that joint ventures receive an equally rigorous audit regime.
The Audit Committee and CEO receive all audit reports.
All power stations receive a full internal audit every three years, with an interim audit mid-way through the cycle.
The internal audit department includes an HS&E specialist, and technical support is externally sourced where necessary.
Third party auditors assess our plants against ISO14001 environmental and OHSAS18001 safety certification criteria.
In 2007, DuPont Safety Resources DuPont completed an external review of our health and safety procedures.
Details are provided in Progress in 2007 on page 75. International Power Annual Report 2007 75 CR communication and training In January 2007, the Board endorsed several initiatives to reduce our environmental impact and enable Effective internal communication is essential to ensure International Power to take advantage of commercial internal stakeholders receive accurate information on opportunities for reducing CO emissions.
International Powers strategic agenda, major 2 initiatives, corporate developments and position on Generate electricity efficiently industrial issues.
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental Being well informed ensures employees feel technology at our newly built plants and, where respected, valued, and become engaged in any Group possible, are upgrading the older ones.
For example our staff, through our regional at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi a new build 2,000 MW, businesses, are encouraged to submit ideas for our 130 MIGD plant, which we have just started annual Flagship Awards, which are donations for constructing, we are using Alstom GT26B projects of special note in the communities in which technology which, when taking into account the we operate, in addition to participating in local power it produces and the heat generated for the community work.
More details on our Flagship desalination process, has an efficiency of over 60%.
Awards can be found on page 77.
We have dedicated resources within our operations and engineering teams to review technology trends To communicate key issues effectively, a variety of and advances to ensure we are best positioned to communication channels have been developed.
participate in the drive towards a lower carbon Management briefings and functional forums are environment internationally.
We are actively reviewing the thermal efficiency at We produce an internal International Power magazine our power stations and implementing improvement that is distributed globally as hard copy to all programmes.
These range from steam turbine International Power sites and offices.
The publication upgrades, to reducing works power, to improving contains details on major Group news, industry combustion conditions.
For example, high efficiency developments that directly affect the Group, updates steam turbines are being retro-fitted to Units 1 and 2 on regional progress and features on CR.
at Hazelwood power station in Australia.
In 2008, International Power will also be relaunching its intranet to provide employees with access to a range of Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation material, including information on the Groups CR aims In 2007, we commenced investing in the and achievements.
development of low carbon initiatives, including carbon capture and storage.
Information on International Powers CR is also made available via the Company website.
Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown coal which is low in NO and SO emissions, but produces higher x x All Executive Directors of International Power and our CO emissions due to its high moisture content.
We subsidiaries receive training in corporate governance 2 have secured A$80 million of funding from both the and CR.
We give all new employees basic HS&E Victorian and federal government to develop a way of inductions and comprehensive safety training relevant drying the brown coal before burning it.
The fluidised to their work area.
bed coal drying plant will reduce the moisture content Progress in 2007 from 60% to 12%, using waste heat from the power plant.
As part of this project we are also developing a Environment and climate change pilot carbon capture plant that will remove up to 25 As a global power company, we recognise the tonnes of CO from Hazelwoods flue gas every day.
2 importance of developing and implementing a The project also involves fitting a new highly efficient low carbon strategy over both the medium and turbine.
The financing documents for this project were long-term.
signed with the federal and Victorian governments It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a during 2007 and we have now reached agreement with a supplier Alstom for the technology required.
This means we need to retain our competitiveness today, but ensure we are We are also researching the potential of tidal power, taking steps now, so that our business is fit for using turbines to generate electricity from tidal flow.
In this regard the control and In 2007, we entered into a collaboration to develop limitation of CO emissions is a critical issue and one 2 tidal turbine technology.
which has a high priority within our business.
76 Corporate responsibility Expanding renewables DuPont carried out a review of safety management across International Power in the fourth quarter of Our expansion strategy at present focuses on 2006 and first quarter of 2007.
The assessment was countries where wind energy operates within carried out at our London headquarters, Rugeley favourable regulatory regimes, many of which are in UK, Ras Laffan B Qatar, Pego Portugal, Paiton Europe.
In 2007 we acquired a further 660 MW of Indonesia and Hays Texas.
Having reviewed our operational wind generation, and 132 MW of safety policy, observed practices in the field and capacity which was under construction became conducted employee interviews, DuPont declared operational during the year.
Our wind portfolio now that, International Power has a good safety has an aggregate capacity of 1,199 MW.
We are performance, and employees at stations exhibit high seeking to further expand our renewables portfolio safety awareness.
DuPont further acknowledged that organically, through working with developers where Hays, within joint ventures and associates, International we bring construction, financing, operational and Texas Power frequently provides operational and safety commercial skills, and by acquisition.
DuPont provided feedback to site Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions managers, produced a report of findings and made recommendations for improvement.
All We are investing significant capital in FGD, a process recommendations have now been acted upon.
that is retrofitted to coal fired power stations to remove sulphur from emissions.
FGD is already fitted We developed a behavioural safety programme for at our coal plant in the Czech Republic and at the all employees to reduce the number of incidents, Paiton plant in Indonesia, and we are installing it at including unsafe behaviours and accidents, resulting Pego in Portugal, and Rugeley in the UK.
Installation of in lost time.
We encourage staff to identify at-risk FGD at Rugeley and Pego will enable them to comply behaviour and complacency, and take corrective with the revised EU LCPDs restrictions on sulphur action before an incident occurs.
We have chosen the was operational across the majority of International limestone gypsum FGD process for Rugeley, in line Powers plants by the end of 2007. with all other existing or planned FGD power stations in England.
More information about the FGD process Social investment can be found in the case study Reducing sulphur Electricity, fresh water and heating are requirements emissions on page 61. of modern life this gives us considerable reach and global impact on peoples lives.
We, in turn, accept a Health and safety reciprocal responsibility to conduct our business with We are committed to the best possible health and a genuine concern for the world around us, and in safety performance.
2007 was the third successive particular where our business has a direct effect.
year in which our KPI accident frequency rate was We support the communities in which we operate reduced.
Very few of the reported accidents were by acting as a responsible neighbour and employer, caused by plant equipment or management systems and contributing towards the improvement of local failures.
The majority of the accidents involved falling, amenities such as health and education services.
For tripping or incorrect lifting of heavy equipment.
example, at HUBCO we co-sponsor eye camps where International Power deeply regrets the death of one simple eye surgery is provided for individuals who of our contractors at Paiton in Indonesia.
In November cannot afford treatment and without it would have 2007, a contract employee drowned after falling from been blind.
a jetty at night while unloading coal.
He was not wearing a life jacket, a mandatory requirement.
We carried out a full investigation, and immediately introduced a revised set of recommendations for avoiding similar incidents.
International Power Annual Report 2007 77 In 2007 we went further by selecting two major projects, each requiring funds in the region of 100,000.
The Grace Berglund Centre in Victoria, Australia, is using the award to fund the creation of a new child friendly reception area.
Originally built as a combined school and adult training centre for people with cerebral palsy or with physical and multiple disabilities, the Centre now provides therapy support, clinics, equipment fittings and assessments.
The Award also covers the purchase of specialised transport.
The Hope Centre, based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, is a multilingual, multicultural centre for children with special needs, and is unique within the Kingdom, in that it caters for both physical and mental disabilities.
This is the first Flagship Award Hazelwood, in the Middle East and is being used to fund Victoria additional teachers in the essential and specialised skills required for this important work.
The Award This is just one aspect of the health care programme also covers the purchase of transport and necessary in the Hub area.
The mobile medical services and equipment for the Centre.
community health centres serve 25 villages in the In addition to our Flagship Awards, in recent years vicinity of the power station on a daily basis, treating our charitable policy has been refined to support four over 47,000 patients during 2007. major charities from our corporate centre.
These are Our commitment to education is evident with all Crisis, The Queen Elizabeth Foundation, Sight Savers regions supporting local schools through sporting and Wellchild.
Each is supported on a three-year equipment, computer hardware, sponsorship of rolling programme with an annual sum of 20,000, events and prizes.
Staff also give their time freely allowing us to build a longer-term relationship and within their communities offering support for at the same time giving the charity the security of many activities.
Further information on our relationship with these charities is available on We encourage our staff to participate wherever our website.
possible and support them fully in their endeavours.
The Company also operates a Give As You Earn Each year our regional businesses propose projects scheme to facilitate personal charity donations by our of special note for corporate Flagship status, of up staff.
We also match monies that our employees raise to 100,000 in value.
In 2007 International Power and its subsidiaries contributed 1,195,985 to charitable causes and other community projects.
Companies in which we have a minority shareholding associates and joint ventures contributed a further 251,028.
78 Corporate responsibility CR performance indicators Our CR performance indicators can be found in the following table.
2007 2006 2005 Total electricity output kWh 89,628 80,653 67,581 Environment CO emissions 2 Total 000 tonnes 65,695 61,206 52,294 Per kWh kg equivalent 0.694 0.715 0.736 SO emissions 2 Total tonnes 93,000 87,000 77,000 Per kWh kg equivalent 0.00098 0.00101 0.00109 NO emissions x Total tonnes 73,000 75,000 74,000 Per kWh kg equivalent 0.00077 0.00088 0.00104 Particulate emissions Total tonnes 7,000 7,000 6,000 Per kWh kg equivalent 0.00007 0.00008 0.00009 Number of reportable environmental incidents KPI 13 16 16 Number of environmental prosecutions 1 00 Health and safety Accident rate for employees and contractors KPI 0.12 0.16 0.23 Fatalities 1 10 Social investment Community investment from International Power and its subsidiaries 1,195,985 1,050,000 1,173,707 Community investment from companies in which we have a minority shareholding 251,028 346,000 662,132 Note: As an energy company we provide electricity, heat, steam and water to our customers.
In order to consider all process outputs and provide a more accurate representation of our total outputs, in 2005 we developed a methodology which has allowed us to calculate our data normalised by kWh equivalent.
This methodology is available by request.
