Directors report - Business review - Corporate responsibility Directly or indirectly, Interserves activities affect the lives of We manage our corporate responsibilities under three principal many thousands of people across the world.
We believe we policy headings: have a duty to behave responsibly in all respects, in all our Health and safety interactions with all our stakeholders.
Environment Our behaviour is underpinned by our corporate mission and the Social and ethical values to which we subscribe: Interserve is a member of the FTSE4Good and Kempen Social Mission Responsibility indices.
Interserve is dedicated to delivering sustainable shareholder value by providing an integrated range of support services in partnership with our clients, our employees and our supply chain.
We operate safely and responsibly and seek to improve continually.
Values We continually add value to clients and shareholders by providing complementary services and by nurturing long-term relationships We treat all people with respect by acting ethically and through encouraging our people to develop their full contribution to the benefit of the business We work as a team and honour our commitments by acting in an open, professional and friendly manner We act responsibly by working safely and with consideration for those affected by our operations We improve our performance by sharing our knowledge and Flying Gardener on the move through continual learning and innovation Interserve came to the Flying Gardeners rescue in July by moving his Best Culture in Show, DfES Growing Schools Garden from the RHS Hampton Court We see ourselves, and would wish others to see us as: Flower Show to the Botanical Gardens in Birmingham, where the garden was rebuilt in the autumn for the charity Learning Through Landscapes.
Open, honest, pragmatic and trustworthy Proud of what we do Health and safety Focused on performance and success Creating a safe and healthy working environment is fundamental to Interserve so much so that it forms part of Operating safely and responsibly our mission statement.
Throughout the Group there continues Always learning to be a clear commitment to developing a proactive safety culture and creating an accident-free environment across the Continuously improving full range of our activities.
We aim to make sure that none of our employees, contractors or the people who interface with Commitments our operations is injured or made unwell by the way we carry Our values and culture, together with our internal policy out our work.
As part of health and safety practices: framework, enable us to manage our relationship with stakeholders on the basis of the following commitments: We provide dedicated resources to achieve high standards of health and safety performance through the implementation To act in the long-term interests of all stakeholders of formal safety management systems by a trained and To conduct our operations ethically and in accordance with competent management and workforce.
the law A health and safety policy document is signed by the Chief To provide information that stakeholders legitimately require Executive.
John Vyse is the executive director with special in a timely, equal and transparent manner responsibility for health and safety.
To regulate our dealings in accordance with our constitution 28 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Delivering effective health and safety is a line management responsibility and in all businesses there are designated directors responsible for health and safety.
These Safety Champions meet on a quarterly basis to monitor performance and co-ordinate Group-wide initiatives.
Formal safety management systems are implemented in each business and the majority are accredited to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
The systems are specific to each business and provide appropriate guidance to deal with the range of risks encountered by our employees.
Competent health and safety professionals are employed to provide advice to senior management, support to staff and an audit service.
This includes occupational health professionals who provide specialist support for employee and management occupational health issues.
Health and safety objectives are agreed by the Group Board and each business develops its own annual targets and appropriate action plans in support of these objectives.
The Depaul Trust In July, members of Interserves 2007 Effective Management Programme A Dont Walk By campaign is run across the Group using undertook a community project with the Depaul Trust in Erdington, briefings and posters to empower all employees to take Birmingham, completing the redecoration of the reception and training responsibility for their own safety and also for that of others rooms.
The Depaul Trust specialises in working in communities where in the workplace.
poverty and long-term unemployment have resulted in social exclusion and high rates of homelessness.
Senior directors carry out periodic safety tours of a range of operations to provide visibility of their commitment to safety and gain assurance as to the adequacy of the arrangements The RoSPA Facilities Management Sector Award being made for health and safety management.
Highly Commended in the RoSPA Engineering Construction Industry Sector Award A RoSPA Presidents Award for 10 consecutive years of Gold Awards An eighth consecutive BSC International Safety Award A further 17 RoSPA Gold Medals and Gold Awards 2007 summary Unless otherwise specified, the data covers the Groups UKbased operations.
The absence rate due to work-related injury, measured in days per 100,000 employees, fell to 12,153 2006: 23,932.
Injury incidence fell to 444 per 100,000 workforce 2006: 556.
There were no convictions for health and safety offences 2006: none.
At the end of the year one prosecution was Support for Ugandan schools scheduled for hearing 2006: none.
Regional Health and Safety Advisor Peter Godsall and his wife Marian gave There was one prohibition notice served on the Group 2006: up their holiday to help construct additional classrooms at Rukungiri primary school in the south-west corner of Uganda.
The school is home to none.
hundreds of children impacted by AIDS and Peter and Marian raised over There were no improvement notices served on the Group 2,200 to help fund the construction work.
Once again the success of our safety management There were seven Dangerous Occurrences reported under arrangements was recognised in our receipt of many national Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences safety awards by various parts of the business: Regulations RIDDOR 2006: four.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 29 Directors report - Business review - Corporate responsibility continued Injury incidence 2007 was another year of significant improvements in all of All labour our performance indicators.
1,000 200 RIDDOR injuries - incidence per 100,000 750 150 All labour Employees 500 2007 2006 2007 2006 100 Fatal and major 84 138 84 130 250 50 All injuries 444 556 494 517 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 A total of 158 RIDDOR-reportable injuries to employees and contractors were recorded for 2007, representing an all-labour Employees incidence rate of 444 injuries per 100,000 workforce.
The 1,250 200 absolute number of injuries has risen with the increase in employee numbers through the MacLellan acquisition which 1,000 150 had their first full-year impact in 2007.
750 100 500 For employees, a total of 129 reportable injuries were 50 250 recorded at an incidence rate of 494 per 100,000 employees.
0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Occupational health By the end of 2007 all roles within Interserve had been subject to an occupational health risk assessment.
This identified 1,477 employees at high risk for whom we undertook personal assessments using questionnaires where appropriate and, in the majority of cases 1,047, arranging an interview and tests with a Norwich Union occupational health nurse.
Progress against health and safety objectives and targets 2007 targets 2007 outcome 2008 targets Continue to deliver improving health and safety performance: Reduce all-labour reportable injury incidence Achieved: Incidence rate 444 Reduce incidence rate to below 373 rate to below 494 Zero fatalities Achieved: zero fatalities Zero fatalities Reduce all-labour incidence rate of major injuries Achieved: Incidence rate 84 Reduce incidence rate to below 76 to below 114 Reduce days lost due to work-related injury Achieved: Absence rate 12,153 Reduce days lost rate to below 12,000 to below 23,760 per 100,000 employees Maintain the profile and importance of health and safety at all levels within the Group and for all stakeholders: Chief Executive and director responsible for safety Achieved: 32 site safety visits carried out Chief Executive and director responsible for safety to visit sites in each operating company including several at each operating company to visit sites in each operating company Managing Directors to visit an average of Achieved: Total of 59 site safety visits carried out Managing Directors to visit an average of one site per month one site per month Improve management of occupational health issues: Carry out health surveillance for 100% of Achieved: All 1,477 high risk employees received Carry out health surveillance for 100% of employees employees in high risk category first surveillance in high risk category Reduce work-related sickness absence to below Achieved: Absence rate estimated at 1.14 days Hold work-related sickness absence at below 1.16 days per employee 1.16 days per employee 30 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Incidence rate Incidence rate Injury numbers Injury numbers Environment Interserve is committed to conducting its operations in a sustainable manner in order to protect the environment for future generations.
We recognise that our activities can have both positive and negative effects on the environment, and during the year have carried out work on developing a sustainable development strategy to cover their impact on a full range of social, economic and environmental factors.
Group Environmental Policy Statement The policy of the Group is to conduct its operations in an environmentally sustainable manner in order to protect the environment for future generations.
John Gulson Primary School Interserve staff teamed up with Barclays to take part in a Community In implementing its policy the Group will seek, Initiative Project.
The team supplied and built a sensory herb garden and through its operating companies, to ensure: decking for the nursery at John Gulson Primary School in Coventry.
Despite extremely heavy showers the team completed the work which will Compliance with relevant environmental improve the school environment and will be enjoyed by the children and legislation and regulation staff for many years to come.
Prevention of pollution The efficient use of natural resources The minimisation of waste and emissions to air and water Environmental awareness of all employees Effective monitoring of environmental performance Continual improvement in environmental performance The Group will set targets and objectives for the improvement of environmental management and will publish details of its environmental performance.
All employees have a role to play in care of the environment.
The Group has appointed a director to be responsible for environmental issues, and environmental responsibilities are allocated to line management throughout the organisation.
Tour fide Twyford Members of staff from our Twyford office, Trevor Bradbury and Bruce This policy will be subject to periodic review to Surey, competed in a 17-mile cycle ride dubbed the Tour fide Twyford.
ensure it continues to meet the Group's Staff guessed the times they would take to complete the course, raising environmental requirements.
Trevor finished in a time of 47 minutes, 58 seconds and Bruce crossed the finish line in 60 minutes and 58 seconds.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 31 Directors report - Business review - Corporate responsibility continued Throughout the business we apply a structured approach to We use a variety of indicators relevant to each of our operating minimising our environmental impact.
This includes: companies to monitor environmental performance, but the following core impacts are identified for the Group as a whole: Implementation and maintenance of formal environmental management systems registered to ISO 14001 Greenhouse gas emissions from our use of energy, including electricity, gas, fuel in vehicles, transport and travel Measuring our consumption and emissions and setting targets to improve performance Use of resources including water and timber Carrying out environmental risk assessments and developing Generation and disposal of waste site management plans Unless otherwise specified, the following data covers the Delivering solutions to clients to enable them to minimise Groups UK-based operations.
their environmental impact Providing training to employees and our supply chain to raise Carbon footprint environmental awareness A carbon tariff can be ascribed to the energy used in a wide range of activities associated with Interserves operations.
The Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste figures below are based on the actual or estimated impact associated with the core and fixed site service carried out Alongside the need to manage the potential impact of our under the full management control of Interserve within the UK.
operations on the environment we have the opportunity to The principal constituents are: work with our customers to help deliver their environmental objectives and to provide environmentally innovative methods Fuel diesel and petrol consumption in company road of working.
For example, we have continued to play active vehicles and vehicles being used on company business, roles in both the Westminster Sustainable Business Forum, including cars, vans, lorries and site-based plant where we are contributing to governmental working parties on Electricity used at fixed sites offices, branches etc.
for sustainable development, and the Strategic Supply Chain lighting, cooling, IT equipment, heating and process Group, which is supported by ActionSustainability and helps to equipment set the agenda for business and government activity in sustainable supply chain management.
Gas and oil used to heat premises Travel by employees on company business in the UK and The success of this approach is reflected in the awards we have overseas, including train journeys and flying received which included: A European Business Award for the Environment for our Our estimate of carbon dioxide emissions in 2007 is 20.4 tonnes performance throughout our work on the Avon Causeway per million of revenue 2006: 22.0 tonnes per million, a Bridge replacement.
The project was also a National Gold total of 35,461 tonnes 2006: 30,949 tonnes.
This was Winner 2007 and we have received formal recognition as a apportioned: National Green Hero.
Tonnes per million revenue Our renovation of the Grade-II-listed Victoria Footbridge 35 suspension bridge over the River Wye won a Green Apple Environmental Award of National Champions as well as a 30 Considerate Contractor award.
25 Considerate Contractor awards for our work at Friarage Hospital, Lambeth Hospital and Hadley Learning Community.
20 Interserve was highly commended in the Most Considerate 15 Commercial Contractor category in the Considerate Constructors Awards.
10 A Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Renaissance Award 5 for building conservation for its conversion of the Grade-II- 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 listed Grand Assembly Rooms at Newcastle University into 0 the Culture Lab, a new facility where businesses and other 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 organisations can work with the university.
Other travel 0.9 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.4 Heating 2.2 1.6 0.9 0.8 0.8 Electricity 6.2 4.6 3.3 2.8 2.2 Transport fuel 22.8 22.0 22.4 17.7 17.0 32 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Fuel use contributes the majority 83 per cent of the Group Waste carbon emissions.
A number of initiatives were undertaken All fixed and temporary sites operate procedures to stream and during the year to reduce them: recycle waste wherever possible.
In offices this includes recycling paper, printer cartridges and redundant equipment, We introduced a total of 20 LPG vehicles across a range and on sites can include timber, metals and inert hardcore etc.
of contracts including the Metropolitan Police, South East Regional Prime and UCLH and within our own operations.
An estimated 55,300 tonnes of waste was created as a direct These should produce 10 per cent less CO than the 2 result of Interserve activities.
This includes office waste, equivalent petrol version.
construction site waste and waste we produce as a result of Video conferencing facilities have been installed in the services we provide to our clients.
Each use represents a saving on potential approximately 19,500 tonnes 35 per cent was reused or distances travelled.
A Green Travel Plan is in place within the Facilities Project Services operates a waste skip service and a waste Management division and is believed to have led to a transfer station.
We collected a total of 68,361 tonnes from 1 per cent reduction in fuel consumption in the first clients and processed 21,115 tonnes through the waste transfer year of operation.
A total of 2,135 tonnes of material was reclaimed including 353 tonnes of steel and 157 tonnes of timber.
Resource use Water is used mainly to provide welfare facilities in offices.
A Pollution certain amount of process water is used in heating systems, Arrangements are in place to record and address any pollution cleaning operations and spray booth filters.
For our fixed sites incidents and environmental near misses.
No enforcement 3 we used an estimated 27.8 m per million of revenue 2006: action was taken against Interserve or any Group company in 3 3 3 32.4 m per million a total of 48,372 m 2006: 45,700 m. 2007.
Tonnes per million revenue 40 35 35.8 33.1 30 32.4 27.8 25 20 15 10 5 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 Timber scaffold boards and formwork panels are sold and hired Golf for ChildLine out in our scaffolding and formwork operations, and we Carlisle Hospital's annual golf day was well supported again in 2007, operate a small factory producing wood-based products in playing host to 14 teams of three for a day of golf rounded off with an support of our shop-fitting activities.
We have assurances from evening meal and presentations.
The event, supporting our nominated the suppliers of these products and of the timber for the charity ChildLine, raised over 5,000. factory that sources are registered with the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification or certified with the Forest Stewardship Council.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 33 Directors report - Business review - Corporate responsibility continued Our Mansfield office went to the aid of the local Sutton Road Social and ethical Primary School and its attached individual needs centre.
We believe we can help the communities in which we are Teachers were having great difficulty in getting children with involved not just by undertaking our work responsibly but also wheelchairs from the car park into the centre along an old by engaging in matters of local interest.
Having heard about the problem Interserve staff built When storms early in the year blew down parts of various the school a permanent footpath, making access problems a structures at our contracts with Riverside shopping centre, thing of the past.
Hemel Hemstead, and Addington High School, Croydon, our Staff in the Falklands on the South Atlantic Prime contract employees pitched in to help evacuate, make the areas safe liaised with a designer in our UK FM office to transform a and handle the subsequent clean-up operations.
The donated LDV minibus into a kids bus for the Stanley Kids Riverside centre manager commented: The Riverside Zone nursery.
cleaning team were absolute troopers.
The entire team gave 100 per cent commitment in maintaining a calm and Diversity and equal opportunities professional approach, and I am truly thankful for all their Diversity is fundamental to our business.
We operate in many efforts.
Without their can do attitude the day would have different environments, in numerous roles, for a wide range of been much more challenging.
To do this effectively we need an equally diverse We also supported several clients whose operations were hit workforce, and in order to maintain our success we welcome by the summer floods.
In addition to our actions at the Mythe the widest variety of people who have the appropriate skills Water treatment works for Severn Trent Water see page 17, and enthusiasm.
we provided emergency help in areas such as evacuation, catering, finding blankets and clothing, cleaning and making safe for British Aerospace at Hull, Leeds Community Hospital and Corus in Stockbridge.
We developed our partnership with Exeter College, sponsoring a BTEC in Construction for 14-16 year olds.
This includes giving talks to students, hosting visits and providing financial assistance for college tutoring, materials and transport.
We received a special award from the Devon Education Business Partnership in recognition of the outstanding and innovative contribution this initiative has made to Work-Related & Enterprise Learning.
Eight trainees on an Effective Management course undertook the redecoration of the Depaul Trusts reception and training room.
The Trust has made a name for itself by working with the most disadvantaged young people in the UK.
A team from Specialist Services teamed up with Barclays to supply and build a sensory herb garden and decking for the nursery at John Gulson Primary School in Coventry.
We project-managed the unplanned move and rebuilding of Five-a-side for ChildLine the Flying Gardeners Chris Beardshaws Best in Show Twelve teams from various companies involved in the Severn Trent Water DfES Growing Schools garden, from the RHS Hampton Court contract entered the Interserve Water five-a-side tournament at the JJB Flower Show to the Botanical Gardens in Birmingham for the soccer dome in Derby in November.
This popular competitive event raised charity Learning Through Landscapes.
At the same time we over 970 for ChildLine.
The winning team was Interserves Blue team.
worked with over 30 schools to recover five lorry-loads of herbaceous plants and 7-metre-high trees from their projects at the show.
Once someone is part of the Interserve Group they have the chance to contribute and develop in whatever way their Our staff undertaking work on the Dobwalls bypass assisted abilities and the opportunities we can offer them allow.
We Dobwalls Community Primary School who were looking for need to make the most of all that our employees have to offer help in levelling the ground around the adventure play area so that we can give the best possible service to our clients and so that new rubber matting could be laid properly.
Interserve develop our business for the future.
employees laid and compacted two tonnes of hardcore and bark chippings so that the under-surface was level and then relaid the safety matting.
34 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 form of corrupt practice.
To support an open and honest operating environment, Interserve has a whistle-blowing policy and procedure.
We sent an updated copy to every employee early in the year.
Our ethical policy includes guidance for managing our relationships with customers, suppliers and competitors and addresses the specific issues associated with international business.
We consider harassment of any employee for any reason to be unacceptable.
Employee consultation We believe in involving our personnel in matters affecting them as employees and have continued to keep them informed of all relevant factors concerning the Groups performance, strategy, financial status, charitable activities and other issues.
We achieve this through formal and informal briefings, through our Wear it Pink!
Group magazine, Focus, which is issued three times a year, and Another favourite fundraiser is the Wear It Pink event in October.
Employee representatives are consulted from our Castleford and West Bromwich offices and from Temple Moor regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current School and Huddersfield Royal Infirmary sites wore it pink raising over and future interests.
1,100, supporting the charity which aims to increase the knowledge and awareness of breast cancer so that women can seek help early enough.
Fairness and respect for individuals creates the sort of positive atmosphere that generates its own success.
Our policy supports the fundamental belief that all our employees, including potential recruits, are equal regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, age, religion, religious belief or any other reason that might be assumed to limit their contribution or potential.
All employees have a personal responsibility for the practical application of equal opportunities, demonstrated by respect for the individual, in their everyday dealings and working relationships with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other parties.
We have an established policy that disabled persons, especially should they become disabled in the course of their employment with the Group, be employed where circumstances permit.
Newlaithes School under-11 girls We endeavour to ensure that disabled employees benefit from training and career development programmes in line with Staff at Carlisle Hospital offered their support to the local community by sponsoring Newlaithes School under-11 girls football strip.
also contributed to transport costs for the Carlisle under-12 boys rugby team.
Adrian Ringrose, Chief Executive, is a Member of the Employers Forum on Disability Presidents Group.
We undertook our first ever employee survey during the year, Ethics covering all 25,000 employees throughout the businesses we It is important that individuals throughout all of Interserves control.
The aim was to understand better the issues which operations retain a set of core values and approaches to the concern our very large and diverse workforce and, where process of doing business.
The reputation of the Group and the appropriate, to change the way we work or communicate to trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are among its address those concerns.
We worked with an external research most vital resources, and the protection of these is of company to ensure that all responses were confidential and fundamental importance.
We demand and maintain high ethical guarantee that the feedback we received genuinely reflected standards in carrying out our business activities and tolerate no peoples opinions.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 35 Directors report - Business review - Corporate responsibility continued The results have been generally pleasing although there are Employee development several areas where we feel we can improve.
We have Investors in People IiP is the national standard which sets a published the summary findings of the survey to all staff level of good practice for training and development of people internally and expect to repeat the exercise using the initial to achieve business goals.
It provides a framework for results as a benchmark.
improving business performance and competitiveness through a planned approach to setting and communicating business We have launched a major employee engagement initiative in objectives and developing people to meet these objectives.
Called i5, it aims to communicate the Groups values and to celebrate the achievements of staff in making them a reality.
We have condensed our broader values statement to five core elements: In partnership Investment in our people Integrity Individual responsibility Innovation The launch contained five stories of individuals who had exemplified the behaviour that drives the business.
These were disseminated through posters, DVDs and on the Groups intranet.
We have since begun the task of collecting 1,000 further stories through nominations from colleagues, with each person selected receiving an award for their commitment.
Landmarc and the RNLI Staff at the Defence Training Estate South West location took part in a 12-hour, 135-mile cycle ride raising money for the RNLI.
This completed Landmarcs two-year partnership with the RNLI which has raised over 54,000.
It costs an average of 1,000 a year to train each RNLI crew member, so the money raised by Landmarc will offset training costs for 54 crew members.
Our strategy is to roll out IiP recognition throughout the entities we control.
Group Centre, Investments, Project Services and several contracts within Facilities Management all have accreditation, and Equipment Services has made good progress in extending its IiP practices to its international operations.
In November we were one of four companies signing up to the governments Skills Pledge at an event held by the Learning and Skills Council LSC.
We have made a public commitment to support all employees to develop themselves and work towards a relevant, valuable qualification to at least Level 2 NVQ - the equivalent of five GCSEs at A-C grade.
The Race for Life Running is always a popular way of raising money and once again The success of individuals committed to their personal training The Race for Life on behalf of Cancer Research UK attracted staff and development is recognised through the well-established from all over Interserve.
Taking part in various events across the UK, Interserve Training Trust.
Following a record number of entries staff put on their running shoes to complete the 5km course raising the Chief Executive presented 38 people from across the Group over 2,000 between them.
with awards in May at a ceremony which, for the first time, took place at an external venue due to the awards growing profile.
36 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Charitable giving Interserve believes in contributing to the well-being of the communities in which it operates.
We have a programme which operates at different levels: at Group level we select a charity every two years and make an annual donation: we encourage business units to run charitable events, either for the Group charity or for another cause that is important to the area or the people involved: and we offer support for employees to undertake sponsored activities.
Through 2006 and 2007 we supported ChildLine, the UKs free, 24-hour helpline for children in distress or danger.
Trained volunteer counsellors comfort, advise and protect children and young people who may feel they have nowhere else to turn.
Committees in divisional and business-unit locations across the Group organised fund-raising events and assisted individuals in undertaking sponsored activities.
As a result of their work, the commitment and dedication shown by many employees in their own sponsored activities and the generosity of numerous people in Interserve and beyond, 22,500 was raised in 2007 to complement the Company donation of 25,000.
New York Marathon Stuart Blakeley took part in the London Marathon in April raising over 2,000 for ChildLine.
As if that werent enough he then went on to the New York Marathon later in the year, completing it in an impressive 3 hours, 21 minutes and 24 seconds, only 35 minutes behind Lance Armstrong, raising another 1,700 for ChildLine.
Our chosen charity for the next two years is Shelter.
Shelter provides advice and assistance to help people who have become homeless find a way back on to their feet and into permanent accommodation.
Beyond ChildLine, all Interserve divisions took part in the Financial Times Crisis at Christmas Card Challenge, where money is donated to charity instead of being spent on Christmas cards.
We donated a total of 10,000: 3,000 to the appeal and 7,000 to WaterAid.
Among many other donations and sponsorships from all over the Group, our Landmarc subsidiary and its staff gave 25,000 to the RNLI.
BBC Children in Need As one of the BBCs framework contractors, we once again supported the Children in Need appeal by creating a piece of a giant Pudsey mosaic measuring 3 metres x 1.5 metres.
By completing our piece of Pudsey we also raised 6,750 towards the final total donated by the project of 60,000.
