Corporate Social Responsibility Report Location of facilities 1 1 Asia Pacific 35% 2 EMEA 31% 3 Americas 34% 3 2 In this report we consider corporate social Our business We inject the expertise of our people, some responsibility CSR matters under the Intertek is a leading international provider of the worlds leading scientific analysts following headings: of quality and safety services to a wide range and experts, into industries to bring scientific of industries, including: solutions or analytical advances that will Our business reduce adverse impact on the environment gives an overview of our operations and Agriculture now and into the future.
how they impact CSR issues Automotive Chemical In 2007, UBS, the global investment bank, Our values Consumer Products identified Intertek as a group set to benefit sets out our approach to business Electrical & Electronic from climate change due to its exposure to Energy & Fuels climate change related activities.
Our employees Food describes our CSR policy as it relates Government Our work includes testing compliance and to our staff Industrial effectiveness targets in the production of IT & Telecom bio fuels and ethanol, assisting customers Our communities Minerals to comply with ultra low sulphur diesel shows our commitment to making an Pharmaceutical legislation, and helping to assess low effective social contribution Retailers energy and low emission equipment.
Our environment Operating in more than 100 countries During 2007, we partnered with clients on demonstrates our determination to reduce worldwide, we meet the needs of our new carbon dioxide reducing solutions in our own and our customers impact on the customers and are committed to supporting many industries.
In the oil and gas sector environment them and adding value to their businesses.
our experts are supporting a project that will The chart above shows how our facilities are clean and re-use carbon dioxide emissions distributed geographically.
for enhanced oil recovery in the Norwegian Our customers, suppliers and shareholders Sea.
We worked with clients throughout the Interteks services by their very nature year to reduce carbon dioxide emissions shows the value we place on strong relationships and integrity improve quality and safety in the products across a range of electrical products.
and processes in peoples lives around Our corporate social the world.
We guide many of the worlds largest multinational corporations and responsibility structure sets out how Intertek is organised with best-known brands on how to improve the social, ethical and environmental regard to CSR issues consequences of their products, services and supply chains.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Employee numbers 2003 11,900 2004 13,500 2005 15,500 2006 18,200 2007 21,300 We guide organisations on how to reduce We provide audit and consultancy services Our values the use of hazardous materials in substances to corporations, non-governmental and Intertek has adopted and published the in their products and sourcing.
We also regulatory organisations to improve the following values for the Group and for the partner with governments and regulatory social and ethical impact of their operations.
individuals who work for us.
We will: bodies to help enforce and monitor Increasingly consumers around the world adherence to environmental protocols.
want peace of mind that products they have value trust and personal responsibility: In 2007, we helped Swedish authorities purchased have not been created through act with integrity, honesty and respect: monitor electrical and electronics products social or ethical abuses of workers or unfair value each employees contribution toward for restricted hazardous substances.
We audit factory conditions and work achieving our business objectives: Our work brought greater protection practices to ensure that they are legal, ethical promote a culture where motivated to consumers and the environment and and humane.
We work with corporations customer-orientated employees can support to local regulations.
to develop bespoke global CSR standards flourish, experience professional fulfilment and programmes to ensure that they exceed and reach their highest potential: and We have made solid investments during minimum social and ethical thresholds across respect diverse perspectives, experiences the year, in our people and world-class all of their sourcing.
We have successfully and traditions as essential.
equipment and infrastructure in our initiated partnerships and collaborations laboratories, to meet the worlds need for with non-governmental and not-for-profit We believe that the highest standard of more environmentally friendly products organisations to pursue and improve integrity is essential in business.
In January 2007 Intertek launched the China Center for Labor and Environment In all our activities we aim to: In 2007, we made a sizeable investment to to provide strategic support to local industries build the first independent air-conditioner in meeting international social responsibility be both commercial and fair: energy efficiency laboratory in Guangzhou.
and sustainability protocols in manufacturing recognise the importance to all We are now working with manufacturers and exported products.
stakeholders of ensuring the health and suppliers who supply heating and and safety of all our employees: ventilation equipment to the world, to improve Intertek is a world leader in the design of maintain our integrity and professionalism: the environmental impact and emissions of safe products, with particular expertise in and their products.
Our centres of excellence strive for continual improvement and in Chicago and London provide counsel to innovation.
some of the worlds largest product brands to advance the design of safe products in the market place.
In partnership with industry and health bodies, we collect and analyse safety data in connection with child accidents.
This data is used to help our clients improve the safety of their products.
The growth in global trade has led to increasing demand for our CSR programmes.
We have provided programmes and standards-based approaches specially tailored for our clients and we have hosted a number of forums, including a Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production seminar in Vietnam and Ethical Sourcing forums in France and the US.
26 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Employee distribution 1 by region 2 6 1 US 15% 2 Rest of Americas 11% 3 3 UK 7% 4 EMEA 16% 4 5 China 29% 5 6 Rest of Asia Pacific 22% Our employees Some of the matters I have mentioned are the subject of formal Our principal strength is the talent of our staff.
For this reason our policy, so we need to be especially sure we get those right.
For main CSR focus is on employee issues.
example, as part of our equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy Q&A with the Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Hauser the same career prospects as other employees.
If employees become disabled every effort will be made to retain them in their current role or to look at possibilities for retraining or redeployment Interteks CSR report for 2006 stated the Groups focus within the Group.
Where necessary the Group aims to provide these over the last year has been principally on people issues.
employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in How has this developed during 2007?
Our focus is very much employee-orientated.
Our intention is to unlock the potential of every employee to perform to the best of What about communication?
This enables us to achieve maximum value for them, our customers and shareholders.
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship and we are always looking for ways to increase communication opportunities with our employees, especially with regard to twoHow does this work in practice?
We particularly need to ensure that our employees are aware of our ethical, risk and safety procedures.
Following regular and detailed discussions, we have adopted a We use annual face-to-face review meetings, regular management number of objectives which include: meetings and newsletters to give and receive information.
Employees are also able to use our telephone and email hotlines adopting a number of framework policies: if there is anything they feel should be communicated.
The values developing better analysis of employee statistics: and we promote at Intertek feed into the Groups relationships with improving communication with employees.
staff, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
What sort of framework policies?
Does that include encouraging senior management to become shareholders?
We now have remuneration and recruitment frameworks in place that enable us to treat employees fairly across the Group, whilst still We are committed to encouraging our key executives to align giving local managers the authority and flexibility to adopt what is themselves with the interests of shareholders and the Groups right for their local area.
performance through the ownership of the Companys shares.
The Company operates share schemes for senior executives and The chart above shows how our workforce is distributed requires the most senior executives to retain some of the shares geographically, and why a one-size fits all set of policies is not they obtain through these schemes.
How is the success of your health and safety policy Why do you need better analysis of employee statistics?
It is important to monitor progress in matters such as diversity, The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance employment of disabled staff, training, staff turnover and safety to to the Group and the necessary local health and safety procedures attain the best results for the Group.
The more information we have, are subject to audit by our compliance team.
We are committed the more we will be able to achieve.
The decentralised nature of always to comply with the relevant local legislation and guidelines the Group has led to some information being less comprehensive in any area in which we operate.
We continually seek to minimise than we need, so Group-wide human resource meetings and injuries to our employees.
For example in the Oil, Chemical & Agri intranet-based sharing of information have begun to address these division in the US we reduced the Department of Labour defined shortcomings.
injury rate per 100 full time employees from 1.12 in 2006 to 0.72 in 2007 a noteworthy accomplishment, but we aim to reduce this further.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Number of labs and offices 2003 522 273 2004 531 294 2005 566 321 2006 578 355 2007 629 398 Offices Labs Our communities Our environment In addition to the scheduled environmental Because of the decentralised structure of Although our own environmental impact audits we currently perform, the Group will our Group and the nature of our activities, is low for 2007, electricity and gas costs be introducing random audits in 2008. community involvement is organised at local represented only about 1% of our total level by local managers.
We recognise the costs, we recognise the importance of Specific initiatives we are working on include: importance of our relationship with the minimising the impact our businesses have communities in which we operate and on the environment.
reducing paper usage by using electronic actively encourage our businesses and document management systems: employees to undertake community service Our operations are conducted in laboratories introducing electronic communication with and charitable giving.
Some examples of and offices, most of which are leased properties.
shareholders and increasing the use of the charitable work undertaken by Intertek are internet and intranet for communications: as follows: The chart above shows the Groups expansion increasing investment in low-energy during the past five years.
equipment: Intertek made a donation to the Msafiri increasing recycling schemes throughout Express charity road trip which distributed We carry out a number of environmental the Group: and branded soccer balls in Gambia and audits on our sites each year to assess the reducing carbon-fuel travel by holding was delighted to be associated with the level of environmental impact and ensure meetings by conference call.
goodwill engendered by that project in that any issues are identified and dealt with West Africa.
Interteks compliance team takes an active role in identifying areas where the Group In Sri Lanka employees collected money and As for many areas of Interteks business, and employees can have a positive effect donated to a housing project for families the implementation of our framework policy on reducing our environmental impact.
on the environment is operated by local These include energy and water consumption, management in accordance with relevant use of fuel by Group vehicles, reduced use In Norway we issued a Christmas gift to local legislation and guidelines.
A number of ozone-depleting substances and waste Plan Norway which works to improve of projects have been carried out at the local and by-product production.
childrens standard of living in developing level during the year.
countries, particularly in the medical area.
We aim to educate our employees so that We are delighted to report that our we can all work towards a better future In the US, toys were collected from employees Automotive Research Laboratory in for the environment.
The circulation of and clients for the Toys for Tots organisation Texas, US has received an Environmental information concerning, for example, energy who distribute toys to deprived families.
Excellence award from the San Antonio consumption, is one way of identifying Water System and the City of San Antonio and enlisting the help of all employees in for environmental stewardship and site minimising specific and overall usage.
Our Cortland, US testing facility commissioned a study on electricity usage for their lighting which led them to invest in a new energy-efficient lighting system which is expected to cut electricity costs for lighting in half.
28 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Our customers, suppliers and As a Group, we do not have any individual Our corporate social responsibility shareholders suppliers on whom we are overly reliant structure and we aim to treat all suppliers with Intertek has businesses in many locations Strong customer focus produces fairness and integrity.
We strive to create around the world.
Our activities are strong results.
Vanni Treves, Chairman relationships based on mutual trust and organised to permit local or where ensure payment of all invoices on a appropriate, functional managers, to At Intertek we: timely basis.
manage operations within the framework established by the Board of Intertek Group value and serve our customers as embodied Communication with shareholders is given plc.
We consider local managers are best in our customer focused mission statement: a high priority and a number of means are placed to understand and react to their offer an integrated and unified service on used to promote greater understanding local business environment.
They have a global basis: and dialogue with investment audiences.
the knowledge to apply policies with due welcome feedback from all stakeholders: Our investor programme includes: regard to their relationships with local maintain quality management systems in stakeholders such as employees, customers our divisions and continually monitor the regular individual meetings with and communities.
service we provide: shareholders and investment managers hold regular feedback meetings with during the year: Overall and ultimate responsibility for customers and welcome their inspection road shows in the UK and overseas: the Groups CSR policies, issues and of our premises: regular analyst briefings: and their implementation lies with the Chief provide an accessible feedback service to investor days where analysts and Executive Officer.
assess the quality of service provided: and investors are invited to visit some of our conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys.
laboratories to meet staff and observe We take a responsible and active role in work being performed.
the business communities in which we BP Azerbaijans award for Best Employer operate.
Intertek is a member of a number of the Year was awarded to Intertek In addition, Intertek has an experienced of CSR related associations such as CSR Azerbaijan.
According to BPs announcement investor relations team to handle enquiries Europe, the Ethos Institute of Business and The awards recognise outstanding local and and report investor-related matters to the Social Responsibility, Business for Social international companies and business Board.
Feedback on the Groups investor Responsibility and Canadian Business for personalities whose entrepreneurial skills programme has been positive and Intertek Social Responsibility.
We aim to increase contribute to the success of BP-operated has a good relationship with investors and our participation and membership of oil and gas projects and make a lasting their representatives.
such bodies in the future to show our impact on the local business environment.
commitment to being a significant player During the course of the year, shareholders in the corporate social responsibility arena.
are kept informed on the progress of the Group through reports on our financial results, and other announcements of significant developments that are released through the London Stock Exchange and our own website.
We have introduced the option of electronic communications with shareholders as a way of reducing paperbased reporting.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 29
