O ur people AMEC is nothing without its people.
We are not big spenders on heavy machinery or proprietary technology.
Instead, we have highly qualified, highly experienced consultants, engineers and project managers.
Their knowledge and expertise is valued by our customers and our ability to attract, develop and retain such exceptional talent underpins our success.
Here, we share with you some of the energy and enthusiasm from our people around the world I guess the thing Im most proud of in the way AMEC works is the fact that they dont compromise on anything.
Theyve got set core values and principles and those are fairly fixed in the way that we do our business and the way we do our work, and those principles arent dropped when we go into a new country or a new region.
Those core values are seen throughout the whole of the business, which is really, really important in terms of a company that you can trust and a company that youre proud to work for.
A very trustworthy and reliable company which has values and principles.
What excites me about my job is that it varies day to day.
I deal with a whole host of different people from different countries and different cultures and thats a really exciting thing to do.
Frances Allan, Sustainability Programme Manager, Natural Resources.
Honours degree in Chemistry with Environmental Science University of Kent at Canterbury, 996 : Diploma in Environmental Management British Safety Council, 2000.
Since joining AMEC in 2000, Frances has been supported in gaining her Masters in Sustainable Development Staffordshire University, 2006.
Its much more fun being part of Manchester United than a team thats in relegation Frances Allan Sustainability Programme Manager 88 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 2200007 7 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 99 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 8 2 4 08 10:28:28 Our people Im part of a motivated team of people thats making it happen Every one of us has an opportunity to make a difference in AMEC Clients require and demand competent, qualified people on their projects.
Within Azerbaijan, AMEC is recognised as a company that puts the development and professional growth of local employees first.
AMEC, from my experience, is a company that provides opportunities for people and cares about people, their development, growth and competency.
Certainly for me that makes it a good company to work for.
Its an opportunity that I have to make a difference and change, improve health and safety in the workplace Its being able to contribute to the overall success of the project and operation.
Sevil Ismailova, Caspian Health and Safety and Environmental Manager, Natural Resources.
Graduate of Azerbaijan Baku Institute of Political Science, Faculty of Department of International Relations.
Since joining AMEC in August 2000, Sevil has been supported in becoming a chartered member of the UKs Institution of Occupational Safety and Health 2008, as well as gaining Diploma Parts 2004 and 2 2005 from the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health.
One of the things that Im proud of about the The quality of the expertise that we have way AMEC works is the way that we go about is very good.
It has to be, because of the type our business in terms of listening to stakeholders of projects that we deliver.
They are complex and customers, and then delivering our projects projects, and therefore to carry out this type and services, meeting and exceeding customer of work you have to have good people, across expectations.
Strong delivery like that builds our the company, whether its in engineering or track record and thats something to be proud of.
Andrew Pennington, Business Development Manager, Ted Barker, Project Manager, Power and Process Power and Process Nuclear.
Since joining AMEC in 99 as a graduate Mechanical First joined AMEC in 973 as a trainee, and after leaving Engineering B. Eng.
Hons, University of Surrey, Andrew in 99 rejoined in 995.
Ted was supported by AMEC in has been supported in becoming a Chartered Engineer gaining Higher National Certificate Darlington College Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 995 : and has also of Technology, 977 and a Master of Science degree at been sponsored by AMEC through an Executive MBA UMIST University in 2003. at Cranfield School of Management.
88 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 2200007 7 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 99 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
