Sustainability With AMECs range of skills, technical ability and knowledge, it is well Growing influence of sustainability placed to succeed in the growth of climate change and sustainable Sustainability can be defined as AMECs ability to generate shareholder energy related business and has significant capability in both its Nuclear value today without compromising its ability to deliver in the long term.
AMEC is also at the forefront of a The marketplace is evolving to reflect goods and services which offer number of innovative climate change related businesses.
more sustainable solutions in design, delivery and support.
AMEC must be well positioned to support current and future customers in delivering In October 2007, AMEC was awarded a contract by Baard Energy to their sustainable goals.
provide engineering and project management services for the front-end engineering and design phase of the US$5 billion Ohio River Clean Fuels Many more customers are asking about how AMEC manages and can project in Wellsville, Ohio US.
The project is being undertaken in help them to manage sustainability issues such as ethical conduct, response to growing demand for more  fuels.
community investment and carbon management.
There is an increasing emphasis on the wider social and environmental impact of projects with AMEC continues to develop carbon capture, storage and transport techwhich AMEC is associated.
nology using its existing experience in gas capture, storage, compression and pipeline transmission which is likely to become a key tool in reducing During the year, the international and political sustainability agenda has carbon emission from industrial processes.
AMEC is already working with been dominated by the threat of climate change and global attention is Progressive Energy to design their carbon dioxide pipeline on Teesside UK, turning to look at how best to respond to the warming climate.
a vital part of their planned clean coal power station with carbon capture.
In November 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Adapting to climate change is also a significant challenge to business fourth global assessment report highlighted that there is now and industry and AMEC has been working with the European Space unequivocal evidence that the climate is warming and that this is directly Agency to develop satellite remote sensing capability as a tool for use attributable to man-made emissions.
In December 2007, the UN in advanced floodplain management applications.
AMEC is also looking Climate Change conference took place in Bali to discuss what the world at satellite technology for use in calculating biomass from a carbon must do to mitigate climate change and to negotiate a new strategy post sequestration perspective.
Kyoto protocol which is due to expire in 2012.
There is a growing opportunity to develop and market climate change AMEC has engaged with the climate change agenda, taking part in the management services and AMEC will continue to work with clients to annual Carbon Disclosure Project and contributing to the Prince of Wales develop these areas.
May Day Business Summit on Climate Change for example, but also by looking to future markets.
These markets, however, will be highly reliant Sustainability in the workplace on global leaders agreeing on a long-term strategy which allows business AMEC is committed to operating in a more sustainable manner in to make sensible, long-term investment in low carbon technologies.
addition to the provision of sustainable services.
The company manages and monitors the impact of business activities through its companyClimate change management is AMECs business wide sustainability programme, which continued to evolve throughout AMEC is both helping to conserve finite natural resources, designing the year.
For a full account of AMECs sustainability management and efficient, safe oil and gas technologies which seek to reduce pollution performance please refer to the on-line sustainability report which will and minimise harmful emissions, as well as looking towards be posted on www.
The continued rise in oil price coupled with the threat of energy security has provided an increased incentive for Board commitment and leadership clients to invest in alternative fuel sources.
The board receives regular updates and briefings on significant sustainability issues such as safety, health, environmental management and human resources.
Performance is monitored and action taken as necessary.
Samir Brikho, Chief Executive, has responsibility for leading and driving the sustainability programme throughout the business.
5588 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 5599 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 58 1 4 08 15:50:25 Sustainability management as the support services sector leader in both.
This is AMECs fourth year AMECs minimum requirement is to ensure the effective management as a participant of the index and its fourth year as a sector leader.
of its sustainability impacts by integrating sustainability into day-to-day Business in the Community business processes.
In addition to this, each business is required to For the last four years, AMEC has been ranked in the Sunday Times define and deliver improvement programmes, known as AMEC Agenda Top 100 Companies That Count index, published annually, and has 21s.
These programmes are a direct response to the UN Agenda 21 call achieved year-on-year improvement in its management score.
for business and industry to implement action within their sphere of influence to address sustainable development priorities UN Agenda 21 In 2007, AMEC continued to participate in the Corporate Responsibility, Chapter 30, paragraph 30.1.
Environment and Community indices and all results and feedback will be included in the on-line sustainability report.
Operational sustainability performance summary AMEC has over 40 corporate sustainability indicators across the Future priorities business.
A full and detailed performance report will be contained in In years to come, the only truly successful businesses will be those that the on-line sustainability report including an analysis of performance, achieve a sustainable balance between their own interests, and those of targets and objectives.
society and the natural world.
It is only possible to achieve this through wholly integrating sustainability into the way AMEC performs on a daily At the beginning of the year, AMEC set company-wide health and safety basis, upholding its principles and striving for improvement across the performance targets designed to drive down accidents in the workplace triple bottom line.
and prevent people from being injured.
Targets were set for 2007, based on a 10 per cent improvement on best recorded performance.
AMEC recognises that sustainable development is essential to the future Improvement was made in the number of people suffering a lost time of the business and this is reflected in the fact that sustainability is a injury and the 10 per cent improvement target was exceeded.
key focus area of AMECs Operational Excellence programme.
One of Improvement was also made in the number of recorded accidents AMECs key challenges for 2008 will be to plan, develop and implement AMECs Sustainability Operational Excellence programme.
The focus although the improvement target was not met.
Figures recorded include of the programme will be on three key challenges: data for the Built Environment businesses, up until the time of divestment.
n Carbon management Tragically, in September 2007, an AMEC employee sustained fatal head injuries following a fall from height.
Immediate action, following this n Global sustainability performance standards incident, included a review and reinforcement of safe working at height n Stakeholder engagement programme.
practices across the whole of AMEC.
Operational Excellence will build on the best practice within the business Benchmarking AMEC performance and focus on taking a leadership position on key sustainability issues.
Taking part in sustainability performance surveys provides AMEC with Verification procedure excellent learning opportunities through benchmarking its performance Statements relating to sustainability made on pages 58 and 59 of this and engaging with its peers.
The surveys in which AMEC participates report have been verified by an external, independent team from provide an in-depth analysis of its sustainability performance.
All data used has been checked for reliability and subjected to audit via an internal team of auditors.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI DJSI results influence the investment decisions of asset managers The opinion of Enviros is set out in the footnote below.
in 15 countries for a variety of  portfolios, including Enviros has verified the Sustainability section of the AMEC annual report 2007.
This mutual funds, segregated accounts, structured products, as well as involved reviewing quantitative and qualitative information that supports the statements made.
Enviros is satisfied that this section of the report is an accurate representation of two exchange traded funds.
the sustainability performance and related business practices within AMEC.
The information presented in this Sustainability section has been tailored to the interests During 2007, AMEC achieved a strong performance in both the World of the reports audience and is a sub-set taken from AMECs more detailed Sustainability and Pan-European Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
AMEC was listed Performance Report 2007, which Enviros also verifies.
indd 59 1 4 08 15:50:25 How many times have we heard our goal is to have a quality project that is on time and within budget?
Well this one is such a project...
I personally believe that the results may have been very different if we had not worked with AMEC using the team partnering concept.
Lisa Ruane, Construction Engineer, MCDOT Left to right: Lisa Ruane, Construction Engineer, Maricopa County Department of Transportation: Greg Bosworth, Project Manager, CS&W Contractors: Jay Guertin, Assistant Branch Manager Phoenix, AMEC AMEC plc annual report 2007 61 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 60 1 4 08 15:50:57 AMEC worked in partnership with Maricopa County Department of Transportation MCDOT, CS&W Contractors, and other entities on the Ellsworth Road Improvements project, City of Mesa, Maricopa County, Arizona US, to deliver the project nearly six weeks early.
AMEC plc annual report 2007 61 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
