30 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Trust and PRS In 2007, serious issues arose relating to PRS on ITV channels and GMTV.
ITV fell short of the standards that viewers have come to expect and we are determined that the trust of viewers should be fully restored.
This section summarises the issues that arose, the associated The review identified failings in the way ITV integrated PRS into its regulatory processes, and the steps taken by ITV to ensure that programming: appropriate account was not always taken of the such problems do not recur.
impact of editorial actions on the integrity of interactive elements in programmes.
Agreed and consistently applied procedures, Viewer votes and competitions have been a feature of television controls and ways of working between the parties involved in the programming for decades, but the advent of mobile phones and process were lacking.
In addition, supporting technology, in the premium rate telephony enabled broadcasters to build on such most part supplied by third-party suppliers, did not deliver the interaction and to generate revenues in the process.
Over recent required level of service consistently.
years, use of PRS in ITV and GMTV programming and the associated revenues grew rapidly.
Such revenues were generated In response to the review, ITV announced a comprehensive by PRS elements in mainstream programming, as well as from reimbursement scheme and committed that any unclaimed dedicated participation channels and services, such as ITV Play.
element of the potential total to be reimbursed around 7.8 million would be donated to charity in 2008.
ITV In March 2007, following press reports alleging irregularities in ITV ITV also announced changes to the operation of PRS, including programming, ITV announced the immediate suspension of all the following: PRS activity and appointed Deloitte to carry out a review of PRS in Suspension of all SMS and Red Button voting in live ITV programming.
Deloitte reviewed PRS procedures in all current programmes, until systems are in place to ensure timely programming: identified means of reducing the risk of failures delivery of votes: arising in the future: and investigated PRS-related incidents in ITV programmes broadcast from April 2005 to March 2007.
Reducing ITVs dependency on third party providers, by bringing telephony service provision in-house on programmes In October we published the findings of the Deloitte review and wherever possible: ITV investigation into PRS within our programmes.
Out of more than 100 ITV programmes and series, serious editorial issues were Introduction of training across ITV to ensure that employees are identified in three entertainment programmes.
The Deloitte aware of their responsibilities in respect of the operation of PRS: review also highlighted serious technical issues on five occasions Strengthening ITVs compliance resources with the addition of affecting two further ITV shows: on none of these occasions a dedicated Interactive Governance team.
did the problems alter the outcome of viewer votes.
In addition, The British Comedy Awards 2005 is the subject of a separate The problems identified in relation to ITVs PRS are being and ongoing investigation by media law firm Olswang.
considered by Ofcom which could result in fines or other sanctions.
ITV expects to learn the outcome of the regulatory process in 2008.
The issues identified by Deloitte relate largely to PRS elements in mainstream ITV1 programming, rather than participation television programming broadcast under the ITV Play brand.
However, in March 2007, ITV closed its digital participation channel ITV Play.
From the end of 2007, ITV ceased broadcasting ITV Play participation television programming on all ITV channels.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 31 k ITV committed to improving training and awareness for all employees involved in programming and interactive services.
GMTV Trust its a must In April 2007, serious shortcomings emerged relating to Following publication of the findings of the Deloitte review and competitions on GMTV and in particular selection of winners issues involving trust in television across all UK broadcasters in before phone lines had been closed in competitions run between 2007, ITV committed to improving training and awareness for August 2003 and February 2007. all employees involved in programming and interactive services.
In response, GMTV suspended all competition activity and Two compulsory online compliance modules were launched, contracted Deloitte to undertake a review and to seek to identify supported by an internal campaign seeking to raise awareness affected viewers.
In July 2007 GMTV confirmed a package of of the importance of compliance and trust in ITV.
The campaign measures aimed at restoring the trust of viewers.
These included included a booklet Trust: its a must for all new joiners and offering full refunds to all entrants who were wrongly excluded: production staff.
holding 250 free prize draws, each with a 10,000 prize for affected entrants: and making a 250,000 donation to the childrens charity ChildLine.
The Managing Director and Head of Competitions both resigned from the station.
GMTV also introduced new measures for the management of PRS going forward although PRS competitions have not yet returned to GMTV programming.
These included: Development of independently audited compliance checks and procedures: Regular inspection of future service providers: and Ensuring that future competitions allow for orderly winner selection in a timely and compliant manner.
Following an investigation completed in September 2007, Ofcom imposed a fine of 2 million on GMTV and required GMTV to broadcast a statement of the regulators findings.
In addition to reimbursement costs and donations, ITV has incurred costs in the process of reviewing its PRS operations of approximately 2 million.
Based on current estimates and before any potential Ofcom fine on ITV, an exceptional operating charge of 18 million associated with PRS activity has been taken by ITV in the full year 2007, including the 5 million pre-exceptional operating charge taken at the half year.
