36 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Corporate responsibility We recognise our impact on society and the environment and are committed to acting responsibly throughout our operations.
Our objective is to earn and retain the trust of all our stakeholders for the long term.
Behind the scenes Business impact Creative economy investment in the creative and technical skills Managing corporate responsibility CR, helps identify business needed for a thriving UK television production industry is key to risks and opportunities.
Public awareness of ITV is high and the Company has a high Our people employee morale and loyalty are prerequisites for media profile.
A reputation for high CR standards can help achieving our strategy, and robust health and safety procedures maintain the trust of viewers and other stakeholders, which are essential across the business.
can have a very direct impact on our business.
It is also critical Our supply chain our CR performance relies on the behaviour of to attracting and retaining high quality staff.
our suppliers, as well as our own staff, in areas such as production Material issues and interactive services.
ITV manages a diverse range of CR issues which are fully explored Our CR report covers issues including independent reporting, in the Companys separate CR report.
This section summarises responsible advertising, supporting communities and protecting the CR issues that ITVs management judge to be material to our the environment in greater depth.
Materiality in relation to CR business, in terms of their potential to either impede or accelerate issues is kept under continual review as the Company develops.
delivery of our five year strategy.
Stakeholder engagement Reflecting the development of the business beyond television, we The following formal processes help us understand the opinions of divide CR issues into three main categories On air, Online and our three key stakeholder groups: Behind the scenes.
Viewers: We survey our viewers on an ongoing basis via our Vision On air Panel to provide input into our programming and CR performance.
Responsible programming a breach of regulation e. g. the Ofcom We also engage with viewers through our Duty Office which Broadcasting Code could harm our reputation and alienate handles queries and feedback.
Employees: We conduct regular employee surveys which cover a Reflecting society the more relevant the programmes to our range of issues relating to working at ITV and include specific audience, the more popular they will be and the more attractive questions on CR.
In addition we have an award-winning internal to our advertisers.
communications programme for CR, including a dedicated section on the staff intranet and regular updates on CR issues.
Interactivity we need to manage interactivity in our programmes and services responsibly to build consumer trust Investors: Investors regularly request information from us and and continued participation.
we provide as much information as possible via our CR report and corporate website.
We are included in the Dow Jones Online Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good and BITC CR Index.
Internet and mobile content although outside the scope of broadcast regulation, we need to establish and apply appropriate CR Governance standards for online content.
CR is currently managed by a CR Operational Group which reports to a CR and Operational Risk Steering Group.
This management Social networking it is critical that there are safeguards process is currently under review.
The terms of reference employed to ensure full protection of children and privacy.
for the CR Operational Group are on our website at Online gaming safeguards against the risks of gambling www.
The Board addiction and misuse are essential to maintaining receives quarterly updates on CR issues and have discussions ITVs reputation.
around CR issues at Board meetings.
John Cresswell is the ITV Board director responsible for CR.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 37 k Events in 2007 Protecting the consumer On air When itv.
com was relaunched with video-on-demand in 2007, The programmes broadcast on ITV channels continue to be there needed to be a system to identify any adult content scrutinised by our Compliance Unit prior to broadcast.
The vast normally shown post-watershed on air and allow parents to majority of programmes were broadcast without problems.
In the restrict access if necessary.
Programmes available online with minority of cases that cause complaint, Ofcom considers if the adult content now display video guidance boxes.
The system is Broadcasting Code has been infringed and publishes its rulings.
designed to obtain confirmation from the user that they are aged In 2007, Ofcom upheld complaints about 15 ITV programmes 18 or over, or allow parents to restrict access for children using the 2006: 10 programmes.
For discussion about the PRS issues in site by introducing a PIN verification process.
Many programmes informed viewers about social or environmental issues.
ITV News programmes and Tonight with Trevor McDonald regularly covered these issues.
ITV dramas and soaps also raise serious issues in their storylines and can raise awareness in an audience that may not watch news programmes.
ITV News continued its commitment to investigating climate change for example, with a series of reports from Antarctica.
We also covered a wide range of domestic news stories through our regional news teams, including the floods that hit the north and west of England in the summer.
ITV met all its access service requirements in 2007 for deaf and hard of hearing, and blind and visually impaired viewers.
We provide subtitling, audio description and signing, to ensure that programmes were as accessible as possible to all viewers.
Almost all the ITV1 schedule is subtitled, including all programmes in peak time.
Audio description was provided for many of ITVs dramas, where there is greatest value to viewers.
Online We understand that our diversification from television broadcasting brings us into new and different regulatory environments with specific risks in each business.
During 2007 we assessed the CR issues relevant to our online businesses and will begin reporting on them in our CR report.
Our overall approach is to apply the same standards to our non-television businesses that we have for television even where the regulatory regime is less stringent.
38 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Corporate responsibility Behind the scenes Behind the scenes 2007 2006 2005 We continued initiatives to manage human resources HR and 1 Protecting the environment our environmental impact.
Our HR programme focused on training CO emissions from 2 and development, diversity, and health and safety.
We also 2 business travel 6,580 n a n a strengthened our environmental programme with a focus on 2 waste management and energy efficiency.
Total CO emissions 47,991 37,330 39,665 2 Total waste tonnes 2,210 1,776 1,743 We strive to improve the management of CR issues at ITV and recognise there are areas where we need to focus our attention.
Total waste recycled 36% 29% 53% Our supply chain, environmental performance and community 3 Total water use m 129,899 133,485 104,473 strategy are all currently under review and will be further 1 Workplace profile developed throughout 2008.
Women employees % 49.0 47.6 47.6 CR performance indicators 3 Ethnic minority employees 8.4 9.9 6.4 4 Employees with a disability % 2.0 2.0 2.0 On air 2007 2006 2005 Employees aged over 50 % 14.0 15.1 17.0 Responsible programming Health and safety Programmes Episodes Accidents requiring more than complained about 773 843 799 three days off work 9 7 23 Upheld complaints 15 10 8 Major accidents 2 11 Resolved complaints 4 19 19 Fatal accidents Not upheld out of remit 754 814 772 1 UK only, excluding GMTV.
Access services ITV1 2 Improved data collection systems in 2007 allowed us to collect full business travel data, Subtitling % of programmes 91.4 87.0 89.0 hence the increase over 2005 and 2006 which included partial data.
Audio description % of programmes 10.5 9.0 8.0 3 % of those that disclosed their ethnicity.
Signing % of programmes 4.5 4.0 3.5 4 % of those that disclosed their disability.
On-screen diversity Performance indicators for Online are in development.
Total black and minority ethnic % 13.6 11.5 13.6 ITVs CR Report for 2007 is available in the Responsibility section Complaints data is compiled from Ofcom Broadcast Bulletins.
com, in hard copy from the Company Secretary, or by email from responsibility@itv.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 39 k We are seeking to develop a culture that enables the best people to do their best work.
Our values Brand We are seeking to develop a culture that enables the best people During 2007, we continued to measure the perception of the ITV to do their best work.
During 2007 we modified two of the ITV brand across the family of channels using a continuous brand values in order to give greater emphasis to Collaboration across ITV tracking study which has been managed by Hall & Partners and to highlight the importance of Integrity in everything that we Europe.
We have also introduced an additional tracker to measure do.
The ITV values are: the brand performance of itv.
Gaining insight into our strengths and weaknesses over time, this study allows us to track Customer focusunderstanding our customers and exceeding our performance on a like-for-like basis against previous periods their expectations: and to measure our position compared to our key competitors.
For the broadcasting business, all of the following metrics were Collaboration working together across the organisation acting measured for the fourth quarter of 2007 with comparatives for as one ITV: the fourth quarter of 2006.
com we have data for April Commitment committed to our business, our programmes December 2007. and to each other, proud to be part of ITV: Over the course of the study we have identified two key drivers of Boldness encouraging improvement through creativity viewer behaviour: Spontaneous Commitment and Consideration.
and innovation: These are measures of peoples loyalty and propensity to view consume respectively.
Excellence aiming for the highest standards and demonstrating that we are the best in everything we do: In the context of an increasingly competitive marketplace, the ITV family of channels has retained a strong and stable Spontaneous Integrity demonstrating integrity in everything we do: Consideration at 63% 2006: 64%, compared with the BBC at 69% when working with colleagues: making programmes: and 2006: 70% and Channel 4 at 41% 2006: 36%.
For individual understanding the diversity of opinion and talent we have channels, the Spontaneous Consideration picture has increased for across the organisation.
Meanwhile, ITV2 has experienced a slight decline in Spontaneous Consideration to 13% 2006: 15%, ahead Commercial doing everything possible to make ITV of its nearest digital free-to-air channel competitor E4 at 10% a commercial success: 2006: 8%.
Leading providing clarity and direction to create results, A harder measure to improve is Commitment.
Being a favourite leading by example to motivate others.
channel is more difficult as viewers are being delivered an Workshops which explore the importance and application of the increasing number of television entertainment choices.
Against ITV values were delivered to over 1,000 staff in 2007 and will this backdrop, ITV1 Commitment has declined slightly to 38% continue in 2008.
In addition, all members of the management 2006: 40%.
In the same period BBC1 Commitment has increased incentive scheme have been assessed against the ITV values to 51% 2006: 48% and Channel 4 decreased to 28% 2006: 35%.
and the outcome of the assessments will directly influence a Over the last year our marketing efforts have been focused on proportion of their bonus payment.
addressing both Consideration and Commitment and we continue to see evidence of its success through the brand tracking study 350 members of staff have participated in the Companys which shows that viewers who had been exposed to and Colleagues United scheme.
The scheme gives staff the recognised our promotional activity have a Consideration opportunity to shadow a colleague in a different part of the ITV level approximately eleven percentage points higher than business and has an instrumental role in fostering understanding non-recognisers.
and collaboration across the organisation.
The scheme will run again in 2008.
40 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Corporate responsibility Our two key external stakeholders are our viewers and advertisers.
Customers Suppliers We have a wide range of customers with relationships overseen ITV conducts business with a range of suppliers.
As a broadcaster, by a range of commercial and managerial processes.
Our two key ITV commissions programmes from a number of external stakeholders are our viewers and consumers and advertisers.
ITV continues to commission from Serving our viewers and consumers lies at the heart of everything producers in line with a Code of Practice which is subject to we do, and our business is based on the ability to deliver quality regulation by Ofcom and is the result of discussions with the content firmly targeted at our viewers and consumers.
ITV believes that its terms are considered fair and reasonable by market participants.
To understand this demand better we commission an independent research company to recruit and survey a panel of Directly and via such producers, ITV contracts with suppliers of 10,000 adults in the UK vision panel.
The Panel, selected to be premium rate services.
Following issues relating to PRS described representative of the UK population in its demographic elsewhere in this report, ITV has taken steps to ensure that constituency, is regularly asked about programmes that maximise services offered by such suppliers are of appropriate quality and ITVs audience share.
The information gathered represents an reliability going forward.
In some instances ITV and related important input into the decision-making process of our companies have ceased to work with individual suppliers because Broadcasting business.
We believe it is important that our of issues relating to the level of service provided.
viewers can be confident that they know in advance whether A number of suppliers provide ITV with services relating to the programmes will be suitable for them or their family.
To minimise broadcasting of ITV channels on multiple platforms, including the risk of offence, we give pre-transmission on-air transmission operator Arqiva, satellite operator SES Astra and announcements where appropriate.
We have a duty office satellite platform operator Sky.
During the year ITV confirmed which deals with any issues that our viewers may have.
a long term contract with Arqiva to provide for digital switchover In addition viewers may raise concerns directly with Ofcom between 2008 and 2012.
This contract will involve ITV working and the Advertising Standards Authority.
As we develop new very closely with the company for the duration of the switchover media and interactive services, particularly online, we conduct process and well beyond.
rigorous market testing with consumers and other key stakeholders to ensure our products serve consumers well.
ITV has a procurement department to deal with many of our major suppliers and to ensure that we do business with them in a By delivering the kind of quality service our viewers and consistent and appropriate manner.
consumers demand, we ensure that we are creating a product our advertisers want to advertise around.
Our relationship with our advertising community represents one of the most important aspects of our ability to drive value in the Companys operations.
We have a large team which manages the relationships with advertisers through our partnership programme by identifying where longerterm relationships are possible and by developing a closer understanding of our customers needs.
