Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 41 k People The recruitment, retention and development of ITVs employees continues to be one of the highest priorities for the organisation.
We are building the capability within our workforce to deliver our corporate strategy through clear personal objectives, alignment to the ITV values, well structured development opportunities, clear succession planning and aligned incentives.
Attracting the best talent, from diverse backgrounds, is an ITV is represented at Board level on Skillset, the industry sector essential part of our strategy.
com website provides skills council and contributes to both its core funding and the clear and simple access to ITV vacancies together with rich and freelance training fund.
ITVs representation in Skillset ensures engaging information about our values, culture and working in the that we have influence on the training strategy for the wider television industry together with career advice and case studies.
broadcasting industry including higher and further education.
The site has attracted over 16,000 applications in 2007.
All new Incentives starters have immediate access to induction programmes and an online employee toolkit that helps to ensure their contribution to At the heart of delivering our business strategy is the ability to the organisation starts as quickly as possible.
attract, retain and motivate the best talent to work at ITV.
To do this ITV aims to offer all employees a competitive and attractive Development package of pay, benefits and incentives.
In 2007, to improve The ITV management community has, on average, ten years employees understanding of the full range of rewards financial service with the Company and our aim is that 75% of and non-financial they can enjoy as an ITV employee, we issued management posts are filled through internal promotions.
all employees with a total reward statement.
We remain committed to developing the capability of ITV staff and in 2007 we completed formal succession planning for all senior management roles as the basis for an annual succession planning and performance management timetable reviewed regularly by the ITV Board.
Our portfolio of training programmes continues to focus on the core skills of Production, Journalism, Leadership and Personal Development.
In 2007 over 5,800 training sessions were provided to our staff.
As part of the operational changes arising from PRS issues, our portfolio of Compliance and Trust training has been reviewed and modified.
The revised portfolio is now being rolled out across ITV and has mandatory elements for all new starters and all production and editorial staff.
We have increased our investment in new entrant trainee schemes which continue to deliver fresh and capable talent into our Production and News groups.
A new, 12 month Fast Track Scheme for people at the start of their careers has been launched to enable successful applicants to work across all aspects of the Company as a springboard for their future.
This high profile scheme demonstrates ITVs commitment to developing junior staff with potential and emphasises the importance of companywide collaboration.
42 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review People Aligning all ITV employees with the Turnaround strategy through Communication incentives, and giving them a chance to share in the success ITV believes we are more likely to attract and keep talented of ITV, is critical and is being achieved in a number of ways.
employees if our own communication reflects a collaborative We operate an annual bonus scheme for all ITV employees, and open corporate culture.
In 2007, we introduced blogs, which is dependent on ITVs performance against key financial podcasting and regional online pages to complement existing targets.
In addition, and specifically to support the Turnaround social networking opportunities.
We also increased the amount strategy, the following incentive schemes have been introduced: of face-to-face contact between new executive team members A long term incentive plan which could deliver value to all our and employees in local Town Hall events.
The results of a employees, if ITV achieves its key long term strategic targets culture survey carried out in October 2007 showed a marked in the run-up to digital switchover.
improvement in awareness of the Companys strategy and direction.
We were also delighted to be awarded the ITVs Prime Mover scheme has been relaunched as Create.
Communicators in Business 2007 Award for Corporate This scheme now rewards any employee for new ideas that Responsibility and Award of Excellence for the ITV intranet generate profit or improves the way ITV does business.
and to be highly commended in PR Weeks 2007 awards.
This scheme now encourages employees to develop ideas, not just programme ideas, which have the potential to be exploited in a variety of ways.
To reinforce the need for the right culture and behaviours across ITV to deliver the Turnaround strategy, the 2008 bonus targets for all of our senior managers include a significant element covering cultural impact and ITV values.
In addition, ITV continues to operate a Sharesave scheme which gives all employees the chance to save to own a stake in the Company.
In light of ITVs strategy for the next few years, annual pay reviews are being managed to strike a balance between costmanagement and giving employees a sense of security through challenging commercial times.
In this context, we have agreed a two year pay deal with our recognised unions for 2008 and 2009.
Diversity ITVs Diversity Policy aims to ensure equality of opportunity in both recruitment and retention to support the best content creation and the most innovative approach to business development.
ITV consistently reports on-screen portrayal performance for both news and network productions.
The Company is an active participant in the major diversity forums whose focus is the employment and development of minority groups Opportunity Now, the Employers Forum on Disability and the Broadcasters Disability Network.
