CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Supporting our people, their communities, Community the environment, nominated charities and businesses Our pubs are central to most of the communities in which with which we interact.
Our involvement with these communities ranges from partnerships with local authorities to sponsorship of The board of J D Wetherspoon has made corporate social local sports teams.
responsibility CSR a part of the day-to-day culture of the business.
Access to our pubs is a priority for us, with our efforts to bring a top-quality service to those with disabilities being recognised A CSR group encompassing members of staff from our pubs by charities, local agencies and national government.
All of our and head office, meets monthly to progress initiatives and ensure pubs are regularly audited for accessibility.
We work closely that communication and momentum are maintained.
Minutes of with the Employers Forum on Disability to ensure that we these meetings are reported to the plc board.
improve facilities in our pubs continuously for our employees and our customers.
Where possible, we work closely with local Our people suppliers and support local businesses.
People are our greatest asset, and we are very proud of the recognition which we have received from independent bodies Responsible drinks retailing which have awarded us in this area.
Last year, for the fifth year As a retailer of alcoholic drinks, J D Wetherspoon has developed running, we featured in Britains Top 100 Employers handbook, several initiatives and policies to ensure that it acts in a highly published by The Guardian.
In addition, we seek to develop staff through effective and awardPartnerships with local authorities and police winning training and development, through a positive working We have developed close partnerships with local authorities and environment and by a competitive remuneration package.
All of our managers are encouraged to become members of Pubwatch.
Where no scheme exists, we endeavour to be We aim to set industry standards.
Recently, we developed the instrumental in setting one up.
As a company, we are a member Advanced Diploma in Leisure Retail Management, a qualification of National Pubwatch and a key member of The Drinkaware offered in association with Nottingham Trent University.
Both of these bodies aim to promote a sensible and training programme has been made available to all of our pub responsible approach to retailing alcohol.
J D Wetherspoon has a and head-office managers, giving them the opportunity to gain a Responsible Alcohol Retailing Policy which details our approach vocation-related qualification.
With our association with in this area.
This can be found on the companys Web site.
Nottingham Trent University, we have been able to extend this Challenge 21 national campaign course to those managers who are interested in a BA Hons degree in Licensed Retail Management.
J D Wetherspoon operates the Challenge 21 policy in all of our pubs.
To ensure the effective implementation of this campaign, we provide support and training to all of our staff.
This training is We pride ourselves in being at the forefront for training for managed house pub companies, recently winning again the backed up with refresher courses last completed in November Supreme Award from the British Institute of Innkeeping BII, 2006 and regular audits, to ensure compliance.
making this three consecutive years.
Customer management Financial benefits to our colleagues include a share incentive plan As a retailer of alcohol, J D Wetherspoon and all of its employees do their utmost to create a safe and convivial atmosphere for SIP.
The company allocates shares to employees, free of charge, twice a year.
An industry-leading bonus scheme is customers and colleagues.
available to all employees, rewarding them for their contribution J D Wetherspoon was the first pub company to work directly to the success in the business.
with the Security Industry Authority SIA.
As a consequence, We have recently been recognised for our work in eliminating we can ensure that all of our door staff are accredited and discrimination in the workplace, particularly where age SIA-badged, thereby reducing the risk to our customers.
We are the first employer in the have also extended the SIA relationship to include training for industry to remove our retirement age: in October 2006, we our staff.
As part of our internal shift manager training received an award from the Employers Forum on Age for programme, all managers are trained in how to deal effectively Leading Our Sector in this arena.
18 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Environment J D Wetherspoons dedicated distribution depot is based in Environmental and social issues are very important to Daventry.
In order to save 170,000 road miles per year, deliveries J D Wetherspoon.
It is our policy to: to Scotland are now trunked by train to a Scottish outbase.
minimise the extent of the environmental impact of our J D Wetherspoon has been recognised for its efforts in recycling operations, as far as is reasonably practicable.
and received awards at two of the UKs major recycling events.
conserve energy through minimising consumption and maximising efficiency.
National Recycling Awards 2005: minimise the use of materials which may be harmful Best Retail Recycling Initiative Highly Commended to the environment.
The Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport, Annual promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste Awards for Excellence 2006: Environmental Improvement and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
category Second Place adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or to other disposal sites.
Energy-efficiency embrace the use of recycled materials and ensure that J D Wetherspoon has an Energy Savings Group, which meets to materials or waste generated by the business are recycled, maintain a constant focus on improving the energy-efficiency of where appropriate.
Ideas and initiatives are communicated weekly to pubs strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which via a management action pack.
raise awareness of environmental issues among all of our We have set ourselves a target to reduce business-wide usage of employees and suppliers partners.
In order to monitor our success against ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, this objective, we are installing smart meters in all of our pubs.
Additional actions to achieve our goals include: introducing high-tech taps into each new opening saves Over the past 12 months, we have complemented our policy with several initiatives, including: 400 litres of water every single day thats a total saving of over 4 million litres annually.
Overall water consumption has reduced by 17%.
Recycling J D Wetherspoon recycles ordinary materials generated as a using specialist motor-controllers on our air-handling units, consequence of its daily business, such as glass, aluminium to help us to achieve savings of up to 27% on energy usage in new openings.
cans, paper and cooking oil.
installing specialist controls on our fridges and freezers, giving In 2006 07, J D Wetherspoon recycled 5,076 tonnes of waste reductions of 12% on the energy used in all of our new openings.
making our distribution centre carbon-neutral over the next 12 1,621 tonnes of cooking oil: 3,113 tonnes of cardboard: 30 tonnes of aluminium: 80 tonnes of plastic: 232 tonnes of paper.
months, by installing solar panels and wind turbines.
Our objective is to recycle 10,000 tonnes a year by 2010.
In conjunction with the Carbon Trust, we have designed and built In June 2007, we began fuelling one of our delivery vehicles on a pub in Melton Mowbray opening planned for September 100% bioDiesel.
This Diesel is produced from recycling cooking 2007, incorporating much of the up-to-date technology oil previously used to cook meals in our pubs.
This is thought to available, to minimise its environmental impact.
be the first of its kind in the UK.
If the trial is successful, we will be converting more of our delivery fleet to run on bioDiesel Charities throughout 2007 08.
J D Wetherspoon continues to remain committed to its nominated charity CLIC Sargent Caring for Children with Glass-recycling is a major focus and challenge for 2007 08.
This commitment is demonstrated by its pledge to raise generate 30,000 tonnes of glass annually.
During the past 12 months, J D Wetherspoons available nationally to the extent required by us, so we are trialling employees and customers have raised 397,687 which has an initiative supported by the government of collecting glass from contributed to the overall total raised by the company, since its our pubs on our delivery vehicles and returning to Daventry for association with this charity, of 1,712,044. recycling.
Every pub is also encouraged to support a local charity.
To reduce the volume of glass generated at the pubs, we The company makes further donations to local good causes implemented a bag-in-box wine dispense system.
This has through a charity committee, including donations, sponsorships, enabled us to remove 7.2 million glass bottles from our pubs raffle prizes, computers to schools and unwanted furniture to and hence from the waste stream.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Ethical business practices We feature food dishes which contain 5% fat or less, for those We carry out our business honestly, ethically and with respect for customers seeking a healthier choice.
We have switched our the rights and interests of all of those involved.
We expect cooking oil to a non-hydrogenated and virtually relations with customers, suppliers and business partners to be trans-fat-free product, choosing a brand which also keeps the mutually beneficial and expect our business practices and saturated fats level below the 20% recommended by the World standards to be upheld, while the relationship continues.
To help our customers to make an informed choice about our menu items, we have introduced a Working with suppliers food facts section on our company Web site.
Information J D Wetherspoon promotes long-term relationships with its includes calories, fat, protein, sodium, carbohydrate and the suppliers, working closely with them to maintain the integrity and fibre content of dishes.
Specific information is also provided on continuity of service expected by our customers.
our Web site for those with food allergies or intolerances.
We wish to ensure that both our own activities and those of our All of our food suppliers are accredited by the British Retail suppliers are socially and environmentally responsible.
Our Consortium and independently audited annually by EFSIS.
policies on social, environmental and ethical issues have been developed: in particular, the environmental policy already Our award-winning childrens menu includes three main meals commits us to working with our suppliers, contractors and using only organic ingredients.
In addition, all of our teas and partners to minimise our environmental impact and to encourage coffees are offered with organic milk.
J D Wetherspoon ecologically sustainable and, where possible, local sourcing of supports Compassion in World Farming CIWF and the products and services.
In 2007, we received a Good Egg award for commitment to using free-range eggs.
Food practices J D Wetherspoon has steadily grown a reputation for great food.
Employment practices We aim to provide a range of menu items which appeals to our As a company, we are committed to equality of opportunity and broad range of customers.
We recently won the MenuMasters to the elimination of direct and indirect discrimination, award for the best menu in the town & city bar category, harassment and victimisation of employees, job applicants, awarded by the Dewberry Brothers.
We actively promote equal opportunities throughout the organisation through the application Much of our food is sourced in the UK, with strict specifications of employment policies which ensure that individuals receive for all of our products, ensuring that high standards of quality and treatment which is fair, equitable and consistent.
safety are met, eg our cod is sourced from recognised sustainable fisheries: our Lincolnshire sausages contain only For the seventh consecutive year, J D Wetherspoon British pork, no artificial colours or flavours and have won several has been included in the FTSE4Good Index, designed prestigious awards.
to identify those companies with good records in corporate social responsibility.
We use high-quality ingredients and are proudly offering regional dishes and locally sourced ingredients, eg farm-assured British beef & Abbot Ale pie: our seasonal vegetables are 100% British.
