JJB Sports plc Corporate social responsibility report JJB recognises that it has a duty to ensure that its business is conducted in a socially responsible manner resulting in high standards of both social and environmental behaviour.
Through its employees, the Group aims to comply with all applicable laws in order to meet, and where possible exceed, best practice conditions in both the national and global markets within which it operates.
Corporate responsibility is monitored on an ongoing basis via the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee.
The CSR Committee is comprised of a number of senior executives and is tasked with ensuring that the range of controls which JJB has in place to manage CSR risks are operating effectively and that responses to changes in current legislation are implemented in a timely manner.
Commitment JJB is committed to minimising any negative social impacts and wishes to be recognised as a leading corporate citizen within all areas of its operation.
JJB continues to be selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, launched in July 2001, which is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies.
The FTSE4Good Index is used as a basis for the creation of socially responsible investment products.
During 2005 JJB placed details of its CSR programme on the London Stock Exchange Corporate Responsibility Exchange CRE.
With coverage of all major rating systems and codes, the CRE acts as a central repository of information which provides analysts, fund managers and research agencies with an effective tool with which to review and compare JJBs practices and policies in the field of corporate responsibility.
Inclusion within the FTSE4Good Index, and the CRE referred to above will allow JJB to compare and assess how it integrates responsible business practices through its organisation with those of its peers, identifying opportunities for improvement, and to also provide further demonstration to current and potential shareholders that JJB is compliant with best practice.
Guiding principles of corporate social responsibility JJB is fully committed to ensuring its business is conducted in a socially responsible manner and has developed a set of broad corporate responsibility principles which it follows and which will guide its future progress.
These principles relate to community relations, environmental issues and ethical labour standards.
Community relations JJB values the relationships with both its customers and the wider communities within which it operates and will behave as a good fellow citizen in all areas of activity.
The Group provides a valuable service to the communities in which it operates by supplying a wide range of competitively priced sports clothing, footwear and accessories through its retail stores to enable the general public to take part in healthy, sporting activities and through its health clubs, by supplying a valuable facility in which the general public can take part in a wide range of those healthy activities.
Government advisers are constantly referring to the importance of people of all ages taking part in some form of physical activity and JJB believes that it is a major national provider of both the means and the facilities which help the general public to maintain a healthy lifestyle.
By the employment and training of its staff, JJB is allowing the redistribution of wealth back into the community.
The Group is fully committed to ensuring that both the products and services it offers are delivered by way of focus upon the family and always with value for money in mind.
As a further demonstration of the commitment to the community, almost all of JJBs indoor soccer centres are available free of charge to local schools and socially challenged groups during the daytime.
The Board recognises the need to extend the Groups people first philosophy beyond its business and deliver something tangible back into the community.
Its community programme provides support to nominated local and national charities and good causes including Macmillan Cancer Relief, the British Heart Foundation and the Variety Club Childrens Charity.
The Group also offers support to its employees who participate in chosen projects.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 22 JJB Sports plc Corporate social responsibility report continued Macmillan Cancer Relief Macmillan Cancer Relief is dedicated to helping people living with cancer.
They are working towards the day when everybody has equal and ready access to the best possible treatment and when care and unnecessary levels of fear are set aside.
In the UK, over a million people are living with cancer and 4 in 10 people will be diagnosed with cancer during their lifetime.
These figures are forecast to increase, and so will the demand for Macmillans services.
JJB are pleased to continue to be associated with Macmillan Cancer Relief.
JJB has been involved in the sale of football badges to customers and staff, through its network of retail stores and Head office facilities, the proceeds of which are passed to Macmillan Cancer Relief.
JJB has raised approximately 31,000 during the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007.
This brings the total raised through JJB since the campaign began in 1999, to approximately 1.2 million.
The money raised has helped fund Macmillans increasing range of services, including the Macmillan nurses and doctors, new cancer care centres, the publication of a range of cancer information documents which are distributed through its information and support centres, together with direct financial help for those who need it most.
The British Heart Foundation The management of JJBs health clubs have nominated the British Heart Foundation BHF as its nominated charity partner.
The aim of the Foundation is to play a leading role in the fight against disease of the heart and circulation so that it is no longer a major cause of disability and premature death.
JJB is aiming to raise funds for pioneering research and to provide defibrillators in local communities, through a variety of fundraising initiatives.
Since the launch of the partnership in October 2005 up to 28 January 2007, approximately 47,000 has been raised through the sale of BHF locker tokens within JJBs health clubs.
Variety Club Childrens Charity The Variety Club Childrens Charity provides a wide range of support to sick, disabled and disadvantaged children.
The money raised by the charity helps to build paediatric units, donate Sunshine Coaches to special schools and to take groups of children on fun packed days out: the Charity aims to make a real difference to childrens lives.
Sunshine Coaches is a charity that provides children with the opportunity to get out and about in order to enjoy local facilities and discover the world at large through excursions and educational visits.
These coaches are specially adapted for children with special needs and are donated to organisations which strive to improve the quality of life for young people, something with which JJB is proud to be associated.
Management and staff from JJBs Golf department, led by the Associate Director of Equipment, Martin Wild, have for several years organised annual charity golf tournaments and have purchased 31 Sunshine Coaches from the proceeds of these tournaments.
Although no tournament was held during the summer of 2006, a tournament has already been arranged for 2007 and it is Managements intention to continue to make the tournament an annual event.
Environmental issues In striving to achieve business objectives, JJB must act responsibly in relation to the impact of its activities on the local community and on the environment at large and JJB has accordingly incorporated an environmental management system within its overall risk management framework.
JJB recognises its responsibility to minimise environmental impacts and through the effective management of agreed action plans, expects to achieve this whilst delivering improved business performance.
JJB will continue to be involved with FTSE4Good and the Corporate Responsibility Exchange indicies as described on pages 21 and 22 of this section of the Annual report, further demonstrating its continuing commitment to be at the leading edge of current environmental issues.
The overall approach to environmental issues is incorporated within the core business management processes, and is encapsulated within the following core principles: The reduction of adverse environmental impacts arising from the Groups activities and operations: Ensuring effective and efficient use of materials and energy: Maintain a waste management system strategy which minimises waste arising and maximises waste recovery whilst ensuring, wherever possible, responsible disposal methods: Ensure compliance with relevant environmental laws, statutory obligations and codes of best practice: and Incorporate the principle of sustainable development through a systematic approach to environmental management in order to achieve continual improvement.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 23 JJB Sports plc Corporate social responsibility report continued Environmental actions The Board of JJB in association with The Carbon Trust have recently commissioned a Carbon Management Programme Scoping Study and have subsequently committed the Group to the introduction of a programme of carbon management.
Over the next 12 months, the Groups carbon footprint will be assessed and an efficiency review carried out on all the Groups energy uses in order to achieve savings in both the use of energy and a consequent reduction in costs.
This work will aim to reduce the Groups carbon footprint and point the way towards achieving a carbon neutral position.
Ethical labour standards As a responsible corporate citizen, JJB seeks to provide its customers with high quality value for money products, sourced from suppliers and manufacturers who can clearly demonstrate compliance with JJBs own codes of practice as well as internationally accepted standards.
JJBs Code of Business Ethics, the Supplier Code of Practice and the Factory Code of Conduct, which are set out on the website www.
co. uk, have been accepted by JJBs principal suppliers and source manufacturers.
The Codes are based upon the internationally accepted principles of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code of Labour Standards and the Model Code of Conduct devised by the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
JJB cares about the labour standards within its global supply chain and expects its suppliers to demonstrate similar concerns.
In order to obtain assurance that the factories used by JJBs suppliers and source manufacturers comply with the Factory Code of Conduct and so promote sustained improvement in factory working conditions, a factory inspection methodology has been rolled out with the assistance of a specialist consultancy and is performed by JJBs buyers when they visit the factories of suppliers and source manufacturers.
Workplace Within its workplaces, JJB applies the same level of commitment across its stores, health clubs, head office, distribution centre and other facilities, thereby ensuring a safe, challenging and rewarding work environment.
The Board recognises its responsibility for the maintenance of a safe and healthy workplace and work environment for employees and others customers, contractors, visitors and the general public who may be affected by its work or undertakings.
The Company policy as described in the Retail Operations manual referred to below, states that all employees have a duty to act responsibly and take reasonable care for the health and safety at work of themselves, their colleagues and customers.
Further responsibilities are placed upon senior management and the Property Director is tasked with keeping the Board advised on occupational health and safety matters.
JJB is fully committed to the core principle of Equal Opportunity within the workplace and adheres to high standards of employment practice.
The Group has detailed employment policies which are applied in a fair manner so as to reward people fairly and provide appropriate levels of personal development and training within a safe and healthy workplace.
The Groups policies are designed to value the human rights of all employees, whether directly employed, sub-contracted or employed within the supply chain.
JJB is dedicated to the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability.
In line with that commitment, the Group encourages employees and others with serious concerns about any aspect of the Groups work to come forward and voice those concerns without fear of reprisals.
Normally any concern about a workplace situation would be raised with the employees immediate line manager or Head of Department.
However, it is recognised that this may be difficult in the event of an issue being serious or of a sensitive nature, especially where the Group has so many places of work.
To facilitate this contact, JJB has introduced a Whistle Blowing policy which encourages employees to report undesirable practices through either a nominated senior member of staff or through its confidential and anonymous telephone line.
In the case of concerns by customers, these would normally be raised through JJBs Customer Service Department.
In order to maintain the consistent application of its policies and procedures throughout its retail store chain, JJB has distributed throughout the chain, a Retail Operations Manual which contains in addition to its store work procedures, comprehensive guidance on its Code of Business ethics, its Health and Safety at work policies and its standards of Equal Opportunities.
All of JJBs endeavours and initiatives across the corporate responsibility spectrum are focused towards the provision of ethically produced, quality value for money products, through a safe and satisfied workforce in a way that benefits the communities within which the Group operates.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 24
