Corporate responsibility review relationships we have established.
Corporate responsibility in JKX We are fortunate that building these Vision and values relationships is a core aspect of the One of the core strengths of the Company is our knowledge and understanding way that we operate, and it gives us of the communities in which we work.
As our knowledge of the impact of a wider a significant opportunity to apply a range range of non-financial aspects of business performance is enhanced, we have of resources, both internal and external, become increasingly aware of the way that effective management of our impacts to the challenges we face in developing enables us to do business more effectively.
We have always sought to achieve the highest standards of health and safety performance.
As we expand the range of aspects that we are monitoring, we CR organisation realise that, in corporate responsibility reporting terms, we are near the beginning Leadership of our journey.
The aim of our corporate responsibility report this year is to explain Responsibility at Board level for what we have been doing in these wider core non-financial areas, and how we are corporate responsibility rests with the now putting in place a range of policies, processes, actions and other initiatives to Chief Executive Officer, Dr Paul Davies, build on these early, organic foundations.
In each region in which we operate, we have an Operating context often higher performance demands appointed person responsible for health, We operate primarily in eastern Europe, expected by our investors.
We are also safety and environmental management.
in markets that are developing rapidly seeking to expand our performance Management structure following the creation of new states from management to explore and apply In 2007, a Group Health, Safety, the former Soviet Union.
Our largest area different solutions not only to particular Environment and Community HSEC of operation is in Ukraine.
The tight health and safety issues we have been Manager was appointed to create a regulatory model and the enormous managing, but also to a wider range consistent and standardised framework pressures to build strong and robust of environmental and community for the management of the Groups key economies is typical of many of the challenges.
He is supported places in which we operate.
In many of Our progress in developing a strong by the appointed representatives in each the countries in which we operate, we not and embedded corporate responsibility operating area.
These representatives only seek to comply with the prescriptive programme is therefore highly are familiar with local culture, regulatory regulatory requirements established by dependent on our ability to use the requirements and operating practices.
the national authorities, but also seek to range of local, regional and national They are competent health, safety and exceed these requirements to meet the JKX has three fire engines at PPCs key production facility at Novo-Nikolaevskoye complex which are made available to communities within the region for emergencies.
In 2007, JKX fire engines helped with approximately 20 incidents.
PPC fire engine, Poltava, Ukraine 32 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 environment practitioners.
The Group reviewed by the Audit Committee and communities.
We have not previously HSEC Manager reports directly to the reported as appropriate to the Board.
developed measures of performance to Group Chief Executive.
In each operating Over the last year, one of the key track how well we are meeting local company, we identify, appoint and train a priorities for the HSEC Manager has needs and expectations, but we report via nominated individual who has executive been to establish management systems the case studies in this report, examples responsibility for health, safety and for non-financial risks, particularly with of how we work with our communities environment.
This individual reports regard to our high impact areas of to support their development.
We are directly to the general director of the health, safety and environment.
We are examining appropriate objectives, targets local operating company.
now developing the risk management and KPIs which we comment on later system for these impacts and we expect in this report.
CR policies this in due course to form an integral Prior to this year, while we had a range Benchmarks and standards part of our Group-wide risk management of local policies and practices in place in In determining how we will develop our process.
our operating companies, our operating corporate responsibility programmes, practices often implicitly adopted a In some of the locations in which we we have undertaken a range of responsible approach to the way that we operate, the prevailing culture has been benchmarking initiatives.
We are looking undertook business and engaged with to report success rather than failure.
at what members of the International the communities in which we operate.
A proactive risk management approach Association of Oil and Gas Producers We recognised that this relatively demands that we track both success and OGP are themselves doing to provide informal method was insufficient within failure against agreed benchmarks, an initial reference.
We have also started the rapidly changing and expanding targets and performance indicators.
One working with the Carbon Trust to develop areas where we have a presence.
One of our key priorities in the current year a carbon management programme and of our key short-term objectives over is to train our locally employed people to understand our carbon footprint.
In the year was to develop an appropriate work in this way and to show them why addition, we have begun a dialogue range of policies which encompass it is advantageous for them to do so.
with the Association of British Insurers our key impacts.
Accordingly, we have ABI about how we may improve our The introduction of these evolving implemented a series of HSE policies governance systems and what their systems has enabled us to determine and procedures.
Where the policies and expectations of effective CR reporting our key impacts and issues with more practices of our local partners have fallen are.
We will be using this research to robustness and certainty.
These are short of these, we have required them to inform our targets and KPI setting.
addressed in more detail later in this comply with the standards we have set CR report.
We have pursued an ambitious ourselves.
It is our ongoing practice to programme to implement OHSAS 18001, apply a consistent standard across all Stakeholder engagement ISO 14001 and ISO 9000 series safety our theatres of operation, building on Our stakeholder engagement and health, environmental and quality local regulatory and contractual programmes are typically developed management systems at both requirements but exceeding these where in conjunction with our contractual administrative and operational sites.
we consider it appropriate to do so.
requirements at the local level.
While We intend to have all key sites accredited the basic programmes are part of our CR risk management within the next three years.
As part of commercial arrangements, we have The Company has a well-established risk this programme, we are benchmarking typically adopted a proactive stance management process which is regularly current standards of performance so that towards building relationships with local JKX has a well established track record in maintaining high health and safety standards.
This commitment is extended towards our work in the local communities where, this year, JKX has contributed three ambulances to local hospitals in Ukraine.
In addition to this, the Companys medical crew at PPC is made available to provide assistance as required to the communities.
Ambulance donated to Novo Sanjary Hospital, Ukraine Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 33 we have clear reference points upon in the early stages of identifying an enhanced and extended environmental which to assess and guide future appropriate management system.
These requirements address the Operating locations need to comply with local and national In setting local benchmarks, we ensured Our strategy is to develop a portfolio of environmental performance that we have taken into account local oil and gas interests in and around the requirements.
In addition, as we culture and training capacity for the skills states of the former Soviet Union.
The implement ISO 14001 through the we need within the Company to apply operating cultures in these states are operations, we are introducing appropriate standards.
We remain very much compliance-driven.
While we continuous improvement practices.
sensitive to the fact that we are guests must comply with the laws in these states, We will be identifying, measuring and in the countries in which we operate and we are also seeking to open and continue managing our key environmental that, while seeking to attain a consistent dialogues with the authorities in these impacts.
We anticipate that we will be Group-wide standard on key issues, regions to move the overall culture to a developing key performance objectives, we are also doing so in the context more proactive risk management model.
targets and indicators in carbon of differing local expectations and management, energy use, transport and regulatory frameworks.
This, however, Key impacts and issues fuel use, leaks and spills and waste is not an obstacle in our aspiration to set Health and safety management.
We are working with the common health, safety and enviromental Any health and safety management Carbon Trust to develop our carbon practices across the Group.
Nevertheless, system will fail if it lacks the support management programme.
any systems we develop must be of senior management and the sensitive to and build upon local commitment of the workforce.
to date has focused on embedding our Our philosophy as a company has been safety culture more strongly throughout to engage with the communities in Data management the Company.
We have introduced a which we operate to ensure that we We have not previously managed and Company-wide HSE management are managing our operations with their maintained a central data management system to support the established interests in mind.
In addition, we value system for non-financial metrics.
A key systems in local operating companies.
the benefits this brings in maintaining part of the evolving management This will enable the faster identification public confidence in the integrity of our systems is the introduction of centrally and implementation of best practice operations and products and our managed and collated data management throughout our operations.
We are focusing initially on However, we have not previously sought All temporary and permanent changes HSE and local community metrics, which to measure the benefits that our to organisation, personnel, systems, are the areas of significant impacts and community and social programmes procedures, equipment, products, issues for us.
As we become clear on the materials or substances will be is a prerequisite not only to ensure that implementation of our enhanced HSE evaluated and managed as a matter we are able to obtain certification under programme, we will look at how to do of routine good practice.
the various standards we have described this so that we can maximise the benefits above, but also to enable us to ensure Environment of our programmes to local communities.
that we are able to introduce and support We have introduced project Our case studies in this report illustrate targets and KPIs in accordance with our environmental management and how we have and how we continue to emerging key impacts and issues.
We are performance requirements as part of our engage with our local communities.
In 2007, JKX purchased and installed underfloor heating for the local kindergarten in Andreyevka village.
Previously, JKX also provided manpower for the decoration of the kindergarten in addition to installing new water and sewage facilities at the premises.
Andreyevka Kindergarten, Andreyevka, near Poltava, Ukraine 34 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Objectives, targets and KPIs Quantitative data and targets Qualitative targets During the 2008-2009 financial year, Performance management The KPIs that we have already we will: It is our intention not to report on all established are simple and designed aspects of the data that we collect, but to to measure two key areas of progress continue to roll out the concentrate the use of our resources on in our HSEC management programme, implementation of health and those issues that are fundamental now capacity development and incident safety, environmental and quality management systems: to providing the most effective corporate reporting.
We are looking at: responsibility programme we can develop ways to assess the scale training frequencies: achieve, given the state of development of and impact of our community incident reporting frequencies: economic and social contributions: our programme and the environments environmental incident reporting in which we operate.
We will over the scope out necessary policies and frequencies: coming year determine where we are management frameworks to deliver against the key impacts most likely to be able to improve auditing and monitoring frequencies: and issues that we have performance through carefully selected and identified: and determined objectives, targets vehicle incident frequencies and continue to recruit and train local and KPIs.
people to implement and manage We have undertaken local hazard We are still collating baseline data in our emerging corporate identification studies in our principal responsibility programmes: these KPI areas.
As and when we are operations.
Introducing appropriate clear that we have the ability to report on engage with local contractors to performance standards and ensure that they work to the these in a reliable, consistent and robust improvement measures is going to take same standards as we are setting manner, we will publish appropriate in the region of 12-18 months.
It is our for ourselves, and that they targets.
understand why this is necessary: strong preference to grow capability organically where possible rather than to continue to develop local risk import it, as we feel that this is the best registers and appropriate and achievable action plans arising way to embed the understanding and from these: commitment necessary to achieve the levels of performance and improvement explore the feasibility of moving people between our operating that we seek.
Where we have not been regions so that they gain a wider able to recruit people with the right skills, understanding and practical we appoint people with local experience experience of good practice in a and train them to the standards wider range of contexts: and we require.
continue to work with selected partners to ensure that the systems that we are putting in place are being implemented on a SMART basis so that we are confident that we are setting ourselves reasonable aspirations.
JKX has a long-standing commitment towards supporting education in local communities where the Company has a presence.
This year, JKX donated a bus to the Sokolova Balka School which is used daily by children from three local villages.
Sokolova Balka School Bus, near Poltava, Ukraine Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 35
