Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 29 Health, Safety & Environment We have won awards for our performance in many of our companies across the world.
But we cannot be complacent.
People are still being hurt and we must continue to be alert and committed to further improvements in HSE performance.
We will be successful when no one is hurt and when others copy us.
Les Thomas, Director with Group responsibility for HSE 30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Health, Safety & Environment As expressed in our Vision for HSE Excellence, as an integral part of our business Maintaining the we will: maintain a healthy workplace highest standard prevent accidents in safety across all minimise adverse environmental impact of our operations The Group has set down policies and procedures in its HSE Red Book which provide the framework to drive the continuous improvement as set out in the Vision for HSE Excellence.
In worldwide at all times addition, the Board sets down the priorities for the coming year in the annual HSE plan.
Suites is of paramount of leading and lagging safety indicators are used across the Group to measure performance and guide management action plans.
These are tailored to what is important to individual importance.
Some of these can be rolled up into key Group wide statistics which indicate how well we are doing.
At the core are measures of how many people are being injured in our businesses.
Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF is a measure of how many injuries we have had per million manhours worked.
It includes all injuries, down to minor bumps and scrapes.
We continue to reduce this key statistic over time.
Lost Work Case Frequency LWCF is a measure of how many injuries requiring time away from the job we have had per million manhours worked.
It typically includes injuries such as back strains or bruised or broken ngers, requiring some recuperation before return to work.
Although we have seen a steady decrease in LWCF over the last several years, we have seen an increase in this statistic in 2007 over 2006.
This emphasises the need to avoid complacency and to continue to give safety the highest priority.
The key way that the Group makes a positive contribution to lessening the negative environmental impacts of the oil & gas and power industries is to use our expertise and innovation to help our clients nd environmentally better ways to do things.
Examples of these initiatives include helping clients in measuring the ef ciency of their hydrocarbon processing systems and the integrity of pipelines, and environmental feasibility projects.
Our employees health and wellbeing is a priority wherever they operate in the world.
Education and raising awareness of key health issues play an important part in our initiatives, which include employee health fairs with advice and information on topics including exercise, healthy eating, alcohol awareness and smoking.
We also focus on initiatives that address local health needs, examples include malaria prevention initiatives and clean water in Africa.
Vision for HSE Excellence The above shows the Groups Vision for HSE Excellence, which fide fines what we are striving to achieve in Health, Safety and Environmental performance.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 TRCF LWCF Total recordable case frequency Lost work case frequency per LWC RWC MTC per million manhours.
HSE initiatives HANDSAFE initiative being rolled out Human Factors project in Aberdeen, around the world Houston, Saudi Arabia and Singapore Employee health fairs in UK and USA HANDSAFE, an innovative approach to A project identifying how human Employees from across the Group reducing hand and nger injuries, was behaviour in uences safety has resulted attended our first Health & Lifestyle Fair adopted by companies in six countries in a growing number of multinationals in the UK, receiving practical advice in 2007 and will launch globally in 2008. adopting the initiative.
The common factor on healthy living and information on 60% of injuries in the light engineering in 90% of accidents is that human error is in physical and mental health checks and sector involve hands.
We were introduced some way to blame.
This builds on the success of to the concept by Talisman, who achieved why people make mistakes and created tools a similar scheme run in the US.
The fairs a signi cant reduction in injuries through to identify and reinforce positive behaviour promote health awareness and positive the programme.
Our HSE team devised a and to discourage negative behaviour.
The lifestyle choices and raise the pro le of local scheme which empowers staff to devise initiative, comprising a toolkit which delivers medical charities.
safety solutions under the guidance of improvements in HSE performance, has been volunteer HANDSAFE Champions.
adopted by companies in a range of sectors.
Energy Supporting Energy 7.1 5.8 4.6 4.2 3.9 2.2 1.8 1.5 1.2 1.5 Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 31 HSE Global Conferences One the ways we drive continuous improvement is to share best practice across the Group.
A key mechanism for this is annual regional HSE conferences.
In 2007 over 500 senior managers and HSE professionals attended regional HSE conferences in Aberdeen, Houston, Bogot, Dubai and Singapore.
The focus in 2007 Aberdeen, UK was on personal responsibility for HSE and we invited clients, training providers and HSE regulators to give us the opportunity to bene t from fresh thinking on HSE issues.
Houston, USA Dubai, UAE Bogot, Colombia Singapore Community health initiatives in Environmental study in Equatorial Guinea and Chad Environmental data management Asia Paci c region We have joined the Corporate Mustangs real time web enabled In Northwest Australia, engineers Alliance on Malaria in Africa CAMA environmental data management from J P Kenny, a Wood Group and are supporting initiatives to nd system helps hydrocarbon processing company, devised a sensitive long term solutions to prevent the facilities monitor emissions and environmental feasibility study for spread of the potentially fatal disease.
the Scott Reef area, halfway between Our local employees helped provide a Multiphase Solutions Inc. a Wood Group Indonesia and the Kimberley coast.
permanent well for the community in company, provides a system that enables They conducted an underwater survey to Chad, ensuring access to safe drinking users to monitor the integrity of pipelines assess potential ecological implications water for families living in a remote village.
and associated facilities, detecting any from any future construction activities near product releases.
This system is being the coral reef.
used in the environmentally sensitive areas of the Caspian and Ural River.
