32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Our people Wood Group recognises that in order to achieve our growth and development We are proud of the ambitions we must hire, train, retain and motivate the best quality people across our global activities.
skills, energy and commitment of our We launched the human resource management system which outlines the principles by which all Wood Group people should be treated, and the Human Resources standards people around the world against which all who work for Wood Group are held accountable.
who are responsible for Our commitment is to treat all of our people fairly, responsibly and with dignity, respecting our continued growth their individual differences and helping them to achieve their full potential.
We recognise that we will be successful when we have consolidated our position as an employer of and success.
Allister Langlands, Chief Executive Name: Dr Paul Jukes Name: Dorin Scheianu Advanced Engineering Manager, Engineering Manager, USA J P Kenny Inc, USA A gifted and innovative engineer, People Paul is in his element devising leading Romanian born Dorin has received Engineering & 25,000 edge solutions, from designing a widespread recognition of his talents, Production Facilities pipe system which can withstand including a Best Paper Award at the 20,000 Well Support temperatures of up to 350 degrees 2007 Institute of Industrial Engineers.
Fahrenheit to providing advice on Dorin has created a pioneering Gas Turbine 15,000 Services damaged pipelines.
His rigorous and compressor design process which has inventive approach to overcoming resulted in multi million dollar sales.
Our 10,000 engineering challenges played a key part people oriented culture and supportive 5,000 in Paul receiving the Presidents Award approach has afforded Dorin the exibility from the Institute of Marine Engineering to combine his career with completing 0 2006 2007 Science and Technology IMarEST.
a PhD in Industrial and Systems Engineering.
Training programmes around the world Management Development J P Kenny Academy Rolls Wood Group Academy Programme J P Kenny Academy will expand its new The Rolls Wood Group Academy Our agship senior management online learning facility to cover more welcomed its first intake of apprentices to development programme is delivered engineering categories, setting new a four year apprenticeship programme.
globally and has alumni of over 350. competency standards around the world.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 33 Name: John Dalton Name: Peter Fowlie Name: Caroline Laurenson Chief Operating Of cer, Mustang Trainee Apprentice, Aberdeen Process Engineer, Aberdeen Process & Industrial, USA Rolls Wood Groups Peter Fowlie is A passionate advocate for the engineering John leads Mustangs Process & one of the first trainees at RWGs new profession, Caroline received the Industrial group which offers services from dedicated Apprentice Training School prestigious Oil & Gas UK Pearl Award engineering to project and construction in Dyce.
Peter attends college one for Overall Excellence which recognises management, to a diverse range of day a week and spends the rest of outstanding work by young people in the sectors and industries.
Working closely his time learning to run, test, overhaul industry.
In her career with Wood Group, with a team of 700 experienced and and repair turbine engines.
The highly she has worked onshore and offshore on talented colleagues, John has led the structured four year apprenticeship is projects involving major clients and values creation of a dynamic fast growing new endorsed by SEMTA, the Skills Sector the opportunities she has had to advance business division.
The team doubled Council for Science, Engineering and her career.
Caroline is a member of the revenue in 2007 during a busy year which Manufacturing Technologies.
At the end Institute of Chemical Engineers and is involved projects in North and South of his apprenticeship, Peter will gain a passing on her enthusiasm and knowledge America, Europe and China.
Scottish Vocational Quali cation SVQ in to a new generation through school visits.
Name: Glen Graf n Name: Andrea Abad Ramirez Name: Brandon Miller Trainee production operator main Electrical Engineer, Bogot Regional Operations Manager, USA control room operator, Aberdeen Just one year into her career, Andrea is Brandon has attended several of our Glens hard work and dedication to gaining already being recognised in the eld of management training and development his National Vocational Quali cation NVQ powerline networks.
An electrical engineer, programmes, including our Managing for Process and Operations resulted in him she has presented technical papers at People Effectively programme for being named a Future Star award winner major international conferences on novel emerging leaders, which has helped him by the Offshore Contractors Association.
ways to transmit data via powerlines.
in a series of senior positions.
He has He joined Wood Group a year ago and Her work could yield signi cant bene ts, successfully recruited for operations in is working offshore on the Claymore eld bringing low cost modern communication three states Arkansas, Louisiana and operated by Talisman.
Glen appreciates methods to remote areas such as the Texas and is leading a team of over 100 the opportunity to learn on the job as well isolated oil elds where we work.
as more formal training and has set his former university teacher, combines sights on gaining further quali cations.
pioneering academic work with commercial electrical engineering projects.
Below: Susan Hambler, Gary Watson and Bert Whalley Out in Front A new employee development Finance Development programme providing Programme opportunities to enhance skills Our continuing professional and broaden knowledge, it is development programme for hoped that the leaders of the our senior finance professionals future will emerge from this is now in its fourth year.
34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Our communities Caring for our communities lies at the heart of our ethos and we encourage all our We encourage all our people to engage in community projects at a local level.
We have a well established corporate community programme and we support an extensive range of local and international companies and people charities spanning health, education, the arts, and the prevention and reduction of poverty.
to support charitable Our people offer their passionate and enthusiastic support to a diverse range of community and community initiatives and charitable initiatives from mentoring children to supporting victims of natural disasters such around the world.
The contribution made by our people is underpinned by our commitment to building positive long term relationships and to being a responsible corporate citizen.
Photo list Our Employee Community Fund bene ts from ideas from employees keen to help their local We support the annual Aberdeen communities.
As well as helping to raise funds, many volunteer their time and expertise to help International Youth Festival in Aberdeen.
needy members of the community.
Initiatives we have supported include fundraising drives to Young engineers worked for three years with Aberdeenshire primary school children to aid medical research into critical diseases, help in providing amenities such as schools and develop their idea for an all-terrain wheelchair.
communications to people living in poor and remote communities: and renovating community The KNex challenge is a competition that centres and homes.
aims to introduce children to engineering.
Mustangs Yellow Velos arriving at Versailles, near Paris, France.
Celebrating the 10th anniversary of Give Kids a Chance We are working with the CAMA initiative in the prevention of malaria in Africa.
We participated in the Coolnight Classic sport competition in Perth to raise funds for the Downs Syndrome Association of Western Australia.
Staff in Switzerland raised money for the Pestalozzi Childrens Foundation which offers intercutural education to local children.
Children learning about the environment at Yopal in Colombia.
Employees across Aberdeen took part in the 2007 Corporate Decathlon.
Emma Cheyne Community programmes Heart of Mustang Childrens Day in Colombia Mustang employees have been helping community projects.
Mustangs giving spirit More than 300 children of Wood Group local communities for more than 20 has spread to the UK where the Yellow employees in Colombia took part in a years: from the recent Rebuilding Velos cycling team took part in several fun packed day designed to promote Houston Together programme, where charity rides last year, including a 280 mile environmental awareness.
Held on they renovated an older citizens home, London to Paris event.
In the US, Mustang International Childrens Day, the children to buying diapers for needy families.
As staff regularly raise money for multiple enjoyed a range of activities including an it marked its 20th anniversary, Mustang sclerosis through MS150 bike tours.
outdoor magical circus, an ecological walk, renamed its key charitable initiative, Heart swimming in a cascade, and puppet and of Mustang, re ecting staffs passionate story telling workshops.
involvement in a growing range of Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 35 Kitt Mackenzie Community work in Venezuela Give Kids a Chance Venezuelan engineering company participated in a number of initiatives We have sponsored Give Kids a Vepica and its employees made including the donation of medicine, Chance since its inception in 1997 various contributions to the local water, clothes and food for the victims and were delighted to support their community.
Funds were raised towards of severe ooding in Guarico.
Give Kids a the construction of a local school in together with client PDVSA, the Chance aims to encourage and support Petare which is now attended by 1,200 Puerto La Cruz of ce designed a water vulnerable young people to develop children from low income families.
The distribution system for a community in and sustain interests or hobbies that will companys Volunteers Committee Anzotegui.
divert them from negative activities such which makes social contributions in the as drug and alcohol misuse and anti form of time, money and supplies, social behaviour.
36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 37 Governance Contents Governance 38 Board of directors 40 Report of the directors 42 Corporate governance 46 Principal risks and uncertainties 48 Directors remuneration report
