These range from chemical process catalysts which Corporate Social Responsibility improve the resource and economic efficiency of many industrial processes to fuel cell technologies which aim to make Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous an important contribution to the clean generation of electricity improvement in all aspects of corporate social responsibility and energy supply.
The stabilisation of the worlds climate will CSR.
Continuous improvement is driven through corporate require massive changes right across the energy network and policies, a comprehensive management system and the part of the solution presents a challenge for business in commitment of our staff.
There are three key policy areas which developing more sustainable solutions for its customers.
This provide the framework for the management of corporate social offers a number of business opportunities where Johnson responsibility: Environment, Health and Safety EHS : Employment: Mattheys products and technologies could be the key enabler and Business Integrity and Ethics.
in delivering long term environmental benefits to society with Innovation and technical leadership are at the forefront the generation of further value for our shareholders.
Further of our business and we apply our skills to the development of details of Johnson Mattheys activities in these important areas products and technology which make a positive contribution to are described the CSR report.
preserving the environment, in particular those that mitigate the Product safety is critical to Johnson Matthey and effect of climate change.
This includes the continual development sophisticated systems are in place to ensure that a high level of of products that will improve the resource efficiency of our protection is afforded to our customers.
Increasing emphasis is industrial customers and of products that make a positive being placed on life cycle assessment and sustainable chemistry.
contribution to the health and wellbeing of society.
In managing Whilst Johnson Mattheys main contribution to sustainable our business we will endeavour to match these aspirations at all development will be through the excellence of our products levels of our organisation and seek similar standards from those we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the with whom we work.
management of the business and in the quality of our Johnson Matthey operates according to well established manufacturing operations.
Our expertise in processing valuable ethical, social and environmental policies and over the last year precious metal materials provides us with a core competence further initiatives have been undertaken to improve our in the conservation, re-use and recycling of natural resources: operational performance in these areas.
Details of these principles which are applied throughout our business.
initiatives can be found in Johnson Mattheys Corporate Social Responsibility Report and are presented here in summary.
Stakeholder Engagement The full report can be found on the companys website at www.
Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement As reported last year, corporate social responsibility is activities focused on communication with individuals and now monitored by the CSR Compliance Committee which organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may is a sub-committee of the Chief Executives Committee CEC.
impact on the Johnson Matthey business, both at corporate and The CSR Compliance Committee has specific responsibility divisional level.
These include shareholders, fund managers, for setting and overseeing compliance with the standards for employees, customers, communities and national and group CSR performance through the development, adoption, international trade associations.
The company plays an active dissemination and implementation of appropriate group policies role within the Chemical Industries Association CIA with and other operational measures.
It comprises the division representation on the CIA Council and other strategy boards.
directors and senior representatives of Group Legal, Internal Johnson Matthey has also continued to play a leading advisory Audit and Group EHS.
CSR issues are reviewed by the CEC on role through its participation in a number of sector trade a monthly basis with the Audit Committee reviewing the business associations and national and local government organisations.
risks associated with CSR at least once a year.
The company is also actively involved more broadly with other As outlined in the Corporate Governance section international trade and government bodies to inform the see page 40 the board has embedded corporate social development of policy in areas where Johnson Mattheys responsibility into its risk management process and formally technology and products can play a pivotal role, for example reviews the area once a year.
CSR is championed at the highest in improving air quality and enabling the shift towards more level at Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and sustainable consumption and production.
Neil Carson, Chief endorsed the full report.
Executive of Johnson Matthey, chairs the UK governments Business Taskforce on Sustainable Consumption and Production Johnson Mattheys Products and Technologies and is a prominent member of the Corporate Leaders Group which has provided valuable suggestions to UK government and Many of our products and technologies have a particularly the European Commission on climate change issues.
A number positive social and environmental benefit.
They range from of the companys senior management are involved in the UK anticancer compounds to our emission control and governments sustainability and climate change initiatives.
management technologies for cars, trucks and buses, which Further details of Johnson Mattheys stakeholder engagement improve air quality around the world.
Johnson Mattheys activities can be found in the CSR report on the companys products and technologies have a significant role to play in the website at www.
mitigation of climate change through reducing dependence on Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Environment, Health and Safety The second year of implementation of the revised health management strategy was underpinned by an increased level of Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement investment in preventive health management programmes and services across the group during 2006.
This has already had a The Chief Executives Committee formulates and agrees a beneficial impact on performance.
written policy statement which forms the basis of the group EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson EHS management system.
The board approves this policy Mattheys corporate EHS management system and are vital for statement which is signed by the Chief Executive and is the achievement of continuous improvement in all aspects of available at each site throughout the Johnson Matthey group, EHS.
All Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research as well as being published externally.
This policy is presented and development facilities are included in the audit programme.
in full in the CSR report and on the companys website at The audit frequency for each facility is determined by the scale, www.
inherent risk and past performance of the operation.
Audits review conformance with the group EHS management system Environmental, Health and Safety Management and compliance with national legislation, as well as providing an Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities opportunity to share best environmental, health and safety throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of practices.
protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and The Group Occupational Physician undertakes business safety of its employees, customers and the community.
Our EHS health management reviews to provide consulting advice to policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards guide the prioritisation and planning of programmes to optimise are achieved at all sites around the world and afford a means workplace health protection and promote workforce productivity.
of promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk The CSR Compliance Committee reviews all audit reports, assessment and a comprehensive EHS management system.
including health management reviews, and appropriate follow The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly up is taken on any outstanding issues.
A total of 19 detailed to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our compliance audits were completed in 2006 07. growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable During the year we have formalised the management of development.
substance and product safety through the appointment of a The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS Group Product Stewardship Manager who also has management system define accountability and set the standards responsibility for management of our chemicals compliance against which conformance audits are assessed.
A fundamental programme which includes meeting the requirements of the revision of the group EHS management system was undertaken forthcoming EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of during 2005 to reflect regulatory changes and advances in best Chemicals REACH regulation.
These policies were communicated across the group ISO 14001 in early 2006 and now all facilities have developed local policies Over the past year continued progress has been made with the to meet the requirements of the new corporate policies.
The implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of group EHS management system is available to all employees via achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010. the company intranet.
Three manufacturing sites achieved ISO 14001 registration 26 Johnson Matthey Climate Change during the last year.
This was less than our target of five as a number of sites expected to achieve registration were sold as With continued increased public awareness of the issues of climate change there is a clear consensus that we must be part of the sale of Ceramics Division.
Across the group, 62% of our staff now work at sites with ISO 14001. more efficient in our use of existing energy sources as we transition towards a low carbon world.
With our core Regulation competence in catalysis and precious metals technology, The new EU REACH regulation comes into force from June Johnson Matthey is well placed to contribute to providing 2007 and is widely acknowledged as the most comprehensive solutions to this global issue and to benefit from the associated chemical control legislation ever introduced in Europe.
Matthey strongly supports the objectives of the legislation in Johnson Matthey continues to focus on developing new protecting human health and the environment.
During the year products and technologies which make a positive contribution a REACH conformance programme has been established to to society and the environment, and is actively working to manage the introduction of the legislation which will span the improve the performance of its own manufacturing operations next decade.
The objectives of this initiative are to ensure timely through improved energy and resource efficiency.
Examples of compliance while limiting and managing any potential detrimental both commercial and developmental products and technologies effects on our business.
At a business unit level detailed and manufacturing improvement initiatives from across the assessments of substance inventories have been completed and Johnson Matthey group can be found in the CSR report.
plans are in place for REACH pre-registration and subsequent phases of the programme.
The company continues its strategy Training Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvement in to leverage industry cooperation through consortia to share the costs of testing and implementation.
Costs over the next environmental, health and safety performance.
A number of seminars on high priority health and safety topics were completed ten years are expected to remain within our earlier estimates of 10 million.
Operations managers, process engineers and EHS professionals from nine plants participated in one such 2006 was the second year of phase one of the European Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS.
As a result of the sale of international seminar to learn about the application of new containment technologies to reduce potential exposure to Ceramics Division in February 2007, Johnson Matthey now has only one permitted site participating in the scheme.
This site, hazardous chemicals in manufacturing processes.
Training on the use of the accident and incident reporting software system, located in the UK, remains within the pre-existing Climate Change Agreement Scheme and so benefits from the opt-out AirsWeb, has also continued throughout the year at a number of facilities across the group.
applicable to UK sites until phase two of the EU ETS begins in January 2008.
At that time, the site will become an active participant in the scheme.
Allowances for the site have been allocated and due to the peculiarities of the rules there will be a shortfall of 10,000 tonnes of CO resulting from the 2 coincidental commissioning of an energy saving combined heat and power CHP unit during the baseline year.
This will provide further stimulus for energy saving initiatives at the site to minimise the need to purchase carbon credits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Total Acid Gas Emissions Total Global Warming Potential Energy Consumption Water Consumption 3 Tonnes SO equivalent Tonnes CO equivalent 000 GJ 000 Thousands m 2 2 1,000 500 6,000 2,800 2,400 5,000 800 400 2,000 4,000 600 300 1,600 3,000 1,200 400 200 2,000 800 200 100 1,000 400 0 0 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Environmental, Health and Safety Performance Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are compiled monthly at a group level.
We believe that any Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review accident is unacceptable and in April 2006 the CEC set a new of group environmental performance covering all manufacturing group target of zero greater than three day accidents.
and research and development facilities.
Where necessary, past With the introduction of more robust health and safety environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the data collection mechanisms, including the implementation of business, for example divestments and site closure.
the global AirsWeb accident and incident reporting software During 2006 our European sites continued to make good system, all of our published safety data has been restated to progress against the long term environmental improvement reflect the higher level of accuracy inherent in the new systems.
This year has also seen the Our safety performance has improved during the past year development of targets at other facilities worldwide with over with the incidence of greater than three day accidents at 75% of our sites now having established environmental Johnson Matthey calculated as 4.50 per 1,000 employees in improvement targets.
The remaining sites will set targets during March 2007, a reduction of 17% from 5.41 per 1,000 2007 08. employees in March 2006.
The total number of accidents that Significant reductions in key environmental impacts were resulted in lost time was 38, a 55% reduction compared to the achieved during 2006, specifically energy use, emissions of acid previous year.
During the same time period, the total accident gases and waste production.
In particular energy consumption rate reduced by 25% from 11.74 to 8.88 per 1,000 employees fell by 5% as a result of the focus on energy efficiencies by sites per year.
and NOx emissions fell by 14% as a result of significant In 2006 07 the number of days lost per 1,000 employees investments at plants in Royston and Brimsdown in the UK and per year was 125, a similar number to the previous year.
An increase in water usage was observed as a result the total time lost across the group resulted from four accidents of the inclusion of annual environmental data for the first time with a combined total of 488 lost days.
All accidents are thoroughly investigated to determine root On 24th November 2006 Johnson Matthey pleaded guilty causes and assign appropriate preventative and corrective actions.
to four charges of failing to comply with the conditions of the Following the fatality last year at the St Catharines facility Pollution, Prevention and Control Permit related to our Johnson Matthey pleaded guilty to a charge under the Canadian autocatalyst facility at Royston, UK during 2002 03.
The company Occupational Health and Safety Act.
The court imposed a fine was fined 35,500 and ordered to pay costs of 30,000. of $150,000 but commended the facility for its full cooperation A comprehensive occupational illness identification and during the investigation and the remedial actions undertaken to reporting system was introduced in 2005 resulting in improved prevent recurrence of such an accident.
prevention and recognition of such cases.
The group occupational illness incidence rate has significantly reduced in calendar year 2006 compared to the rates observed in 2004 and 2005.
28 Johnson Matthey Total Waste Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees Tonnes waste 40,000 30 25 30,000 20 20,000 15 10 10,000 5 0 0 March 02 March 03 March 04 March 05 March 06 March 07 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 All accidents 3 Day accidents Environmental, Health and Safety Targets Human Capital Management Johnson Matthey continually monitors environmental, health Johnson Mattheys people are the groups most valuable and safety performance in order to identify those issues most resource.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre pertinent to the business and to drive improvement.
employees and providing them with the information, training During 2006 07 the company established long term and working environment they need in order to perform at the environmental impact reduction targets at the majority of its highest standards.
We encourage all our employees to develop sites over 75% and aims to develop targets at all remaining to their maximum potential and we are committed to sites during the forthcoming year.
Three manufacturing sites supporting them with effective human resources policies and across the group have already implemented plans to achieve practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our ISO 14001:2004 registration during 2007 08. business and our customers.
There will be continued focus on achieving a further reduction in the incidence of occupational illness conditions Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies caused by exposure to chemicals.
The ability of businesses to Johnson Mattheys people policies are implemented through the evaluate chemical product hazards and minimise employee corporate human resources standards which set requirements exposure during manufacture will be enhanced through the use for operations throughout the group to follow.
These standards, of improved in house occupational toxicology skills, coaching which are generally in advance of legal requirements, provide and written guidance on the application of containment internal consistency and are supported either by detailed technologies and continued investment in plant improvement regional procedures and or business unit procedures.
these policies and procedures are subject to regular review to All sites within the group will continue to work towards ensure that they continue to reflect both regional best practice the target of zero greater than three day accidents.
During the year a comprehensive review of and lagging indicators are now an integral component of site UK policies and practices was undertaken in order to meet the improvement plans in order to better monitor performance requirements of the Employment Equality Age Discrimination against these improvement conditions.
Site specific human resources policies and procedures We will complete a review of the group EHS management are communicated to staff at inductions and through staff system to revise and develop policies to reflect new plant and handbooks.
Human resources policies and risks are examined processes, regulatory changes and improvements in industry by the Chief Executives Committee and the CSR Compliance best practice.
Guidance for sites will be prepared for both new Committee.
and revised policies as appropriate.
Additions and revisions to the management system will be communicated to all sites within the group for local implementation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Employee Turnover by Region Average headcount for calendar year 2006 Average headcount for calendar year 2006 As at 31st December 2006 For calendar year 2006 % % Male % Female Voluntary Employee turnover employee due to restructuring, turnover divestment or retirement Rest of 100 16 Corporate World 282 693 Ceramics 680 80 Asia 12 Europe Pharmaceutical Catalysts 772 4,586 4,199 Materials 60 595 8 40 Precious Metal 4 North Products 20 America 1,843 2,322 0 0 Europe North Asia Rest of Group Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World America World Key Employment Policies The first module of the programme was held in the UK in March 2007 and will continue in South Africa later in the year.
Equal Opportunities In addition to an increase in local process operator training, It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop there has been a worldwide emphasis on team leader employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of development.
Cross cultural awareness training continues to be gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or sexual orientation.
Disabled an important component of career foundation, middle manager people and employees who become disabled are offered and senior manager development.
employment consistent with their capabilities.
The business Johnson Matthey continues to have a steady requirement values the diversity of its people and employment applications for high calibre graduate recruits to meet immediate technical are welcomed from all sections of the community including and commercial job needs and for development to meet future minority groups.
management requirements throughout the group.
The Training and Development of People combination of direct scientific contact with key university The Management Development and Remuneration Committee departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures of the board takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with a reliable supply of high calibre applicants worldwide.
the Training and Development of People Policy objectives to: Employee Relations and Communication Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
The company has a low voluntary staff turnover Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
7.5% in the calendar year 2006 with many employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
employee communications and particularly the value of face to face dialogue.
Information and comment is exchanged with Understand employees aspirations.
employees through the companys in house magazine, regular Provide development opportunities to meet employees news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Employees are also encouraged to access the companys intranet and website.
Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of the constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which business in new and emerging markets.
This challenge will be collectively represent 37% of all group employees worldwide.
met through appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment During the year no working time was lost due to employee and the encouragement of international mobility.
An increasing level of training and development activity The company supports employee share ownership and within Asia has been established to reflect the growing where practicable offers employees the opportunity to importance of this region to the business, including a major participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility cross divisional programme primarily for managers in Asia.
30 Johnson Matthey to purchase company shares with a company funded matching In December 2006, an updated and improved company component.
Employees in six countries worldwide are able to intranet site was launched to all employees worldwide.
The site contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k features a new visual design, enhanced navigation and improved approved savings investment plan.
Through these ownership and more detailed content.
In addition to latest company news, plans Johnson Matthey current and former employees collectively announcements and policies, employees can access important held 1.5% of the companys shares at 31st March 2007. up to date departmental information in the areas of corporate Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for communications, human resources, EHS, IT and risk assurance.
employees of its operations throughout the world.
These Our continued focus on improving attendance management pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined and rehabilitation case management programmes has contributed contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and to a further reduction in the rate of sickness absence and provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement human capital costs.
There has also been an increased investment benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
in wellness and mental wellbeing programmes to improve employee health and wellbeing and promote attendance and Activities over the Last Year work performance.
There have been a number of key development initiatives at The major initiative launched last year to provide policy Johnson Matthey sites during the past year.
Improvements to awareness training for senior managers was expanded in employee communications and engagement have continued to 2006 07 to include US specific seminars, with a parallel focus on the use of site satisfaction and attitude surveys as a programme of e-learning available for all US employees.
means of strengthening and enhancing the two way dialogue Worldwide over 150 managers attended the seminars during with employees.
In order to build on and extend these local the year which cover their responsibilities for compliance with benefits a small project team was established to investigate the Johnson Matthey policies for employees, commercial contracts feasibility of running a global employee attitude survey for all and the management of company assets.
An on-line version is Johnson Matthey employees worldwide.
Using a confidential currently in development which will be completed by a wider and independent survey administrator a pilot of a possible range of junior managers and senior staff during 2007 08. groupwide employee survey was conducted in two businesses During the year a management skills database was created on an international basis, using a combination of web hosted as a means of strengthening the internal development and and paper survey questionnaires.
The response rate amongst mobility of the 800 management staff within the group.
The the 900 employees invited to participate was 65%.
89% of database provides a valuable resource to support and broaden those who took part said that they were satisfied with working the succession planning process by creating greater cross for Johnson Matthey and 93% said that they were proud to divisional visibility of the functional skills, background and key work for the company.
In addition to these very positive competencies of the managers in the group.
outcomes there were also helpful indications of what the management team should focus on to make the company an even better place to work.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Social and Ethical Matters Supply Chains Management of the supply chain and contractor activities Business Integrity and Ethics is a core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson of standards.
Supply chain and contractor management Mattheys business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining in 1817.
It gives customers the confidence that the companys registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey sites products meet the standards claimed for them and that they require the completion of appropriate questionnaires.
For those may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson sites without ISO registration, the group EHS management Matthey for processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all levels system provides policy and guidance on both supply chain are required to protect Johnson Mattheys reputation for integrity.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide.
of our own operations we recognise that business practices in All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out in the supply chain are not always transparent and represent a Johnson Mattheys Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement risk that must be managed.
We support the principles defined which is available on our website at www.
com cr biepolicy within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human and in the CSR report.
It is the responsibility of directors and Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core senior management to ensure that all employees who directly Conventions.
or indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson Mattheys policies and values in the conduct of the companys Community Engagement Activities businesses.
It is also the responsibility of directors and senior Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide management to lead by example and to demonstrate the that promote good community relations to foster a relationship highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on of understanding, trust and credibility.
Guidance on site behalf of the company.
These issues are further safeguarded requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
through corporate governance processes and monitoring by An annual review of community engagement activities the board and sub-committees of the board.
across the group has been carried out and shows that 100% Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and of Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees procedures through which employees can raise employment participate in activities within their local communities, an related issues for meaningful consideration and resolution.
In the increase of 5% on last year.
These activities are wide ranging and US a confidential and secure website and telephone helpline include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the was established last year to give employees an additional means advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
to raise any issue of personal concern.
These confidential Johnson Matthey employees also participate in activities or reporting arrangements will be extended to all Johnson Matthey hold community related roles outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive of this broader community engagement, allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
The review also demonstrates that more sites are setting objectives for their community engagement activities and that an increasing number of sites are planning specific activities in their community programmes.
32 Johnson Matthey Working Towards a Sustainable Future During the year, an area on the group intranet dedicated to community engagement was launched to offer further Johnson Matthey is making and will continue to make a support to sites in developing and implementing meaningful significant contribution to sustainable development through the community programmes.
Over the next year, this intranet site application of its leading technology, the ingenuity of its people will be further developed and promoted across the group to and by the generation of profits.
As the global trend continues stimulate new ideas for community engagement and encourage towards improved energy efficiency and the adoption of the sharing of best practice.
A review of site community alternative energy resources, we remain focused on innovation engagement activities will be conducted once again and we will and development to deliver sustainable solutions for our continue to focus on how best to measure and improve the customers and on improving the performance of our own impact of our community involvement.
manufacturing processes through improved energy and resource efficiency.
During the year, the Chief Executive Charitable Programmes launched a groupwide initiative to engage employees in Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable causes developing a long term sustainability strategy for Johnson is matched today through programmes at both a group and a Matthey.
In the initial stage of this initiative we have been business unit level.
The causes supported are aligned to issues working with Forum for the Future to deliver a series of five to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution workshops to gain the input of senior managers in the and issues on which employees are passionate.
The output of the first workshop, held in the UK in In 2006 07, Johnson Matthey supported 36 charitable March 2007, has been extremely positive and the programme causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
continues in the UK, US and Asia in the early part of 2007 08.
These included support for organisations working in the areas The further aspects of strategy development, communication of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and and implementation will continue during the forthcoming year.
50% of these corporate donations were in support of social welfare causes.
A total of 62 additional charitable causes received one-off donations through the Verification corporate programme during the year.
The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executives Committee and In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual CSR Compliance Committee review CSR issues as part of the Charity of the Year programme and employee views are companys risk management processes.
A review of site based considered when deciding on the charity.
Help the Aged was environment, health and safety reporting systems forms part of chosen as our charity of the year for 2006 07 and further the group environmental, health and safety audit programme.
details on the partnership are available in the CSR report.
The board believes that the measures taken to review the CSR Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend support to information provide a suitable level of confidence without many other charities locally and nationally through donations, external audit.
Johnson Matthey utilises external specialists employee time or loans of company facilities.
where specific CSR issues are identified.
In the financial year to 31st March 2007 Johnson Matthey donated 330,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee time.
The company made no political donations in the year.
