Business Review 42 Corporate Responsibility OUR COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE To support this objective and help ensure effective RESPONSIBILITY and sustainable operational activities, it is essential The trust and con dence of those with whom the for corporate responsibility objectives to be aligned Group deals, together with its reputation, are to the Groups goals.
This is achieved in a number of amongst its most important assets.
Along with its ways, including: commitment to competitiveness and performance, training managers in the best international Kazakhmys recognises that the highest practicable management practices in areas such as human standards of health, safety, environmental and resources and procurement management: community practices are vital to its success, maintaining the commitment and support of and are a key responsibility of all employees.
employees by ensuring standards of health and safety management are monitored and raised: Kazakhstan has a developing economy, which is developing our employees potential: moving at pace towards governance standards retaining the commitment and support of local traditionally expected of companies that operate communities by ensuring Kazakhmys presence in more developed economies.
As such, Kazakhmys is a source of positive in uence: and is seen within the country as one of the leaders in ensuring Kazakhmys conducts its business corporate social responsibility, as was evidenced and interacts with its employees, investors, when it was asked to host a national event in customers, suppliers, government agencies Zhezkazgan by the President of Kazakhstan.
The and the local communities in which it operates events principal message was that business must in a responsible manner.
develop a more generous approach towards social policy and contribute back to the community, in MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY order to create an atmosphere of con dence and The key elements of corporate responsibility social stability.
management at Kazakhmys are: a Group Health, Safety and Environment To develop a successful approach to corporate Committee GHSE which comprises David Munro responsibility the Group is working to ensure that chairman, Philip Aiken and James Rutland.
The all its employees have a clear understanding of how Chief Executive, and the Chief Executive Of cer they are expected to behave.
This report describes and other senior managers of Kazakhmys our management approach towards corporate Corporation LLC are invited to attend Committee responsibility, and the nature of our key corporate meetings, and it receives advice from responsibility impacts our economic contribution, independent safety and environmental experts.
health, safety and environmental performance, The Committee is responsible for setting support for our communities and the development standards, monitoring performance and providing of the skills and expertise of our employees.
guidance to operational management on health, safety and environment matters: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND BUSINESS an operational HSE committee chaired by the STRATEGY Chief Executive Of cer of Kazakhmys Corporation Our overall business objective is to create value LLC and comprising senior operational and HSE for shareholders by building an effectively managers.
It is responsible for reviewing managed, regionally focused, diversi ed incidents, recommending improvements in natural resources company.
systems, and implementing risk reduction and training programmes: KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 43 The Group aims to pursue its business with integrity, respecting the different cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals in all countries in which it operates, recognising that the trust and con dence of those with whom it deals are amongst its most important assets KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Business Review 44 Corporate Responsibility continued Group safety and environmental policies and Kazakhmys represents approximately 1% of the codes of conduct for procurement teams, Kazakhstan economy, it recognises the importance combined with the Groups internal controls, offer of building on the leadership role it has taken in the Company and its investors the reassurance Kazakhstan on matters of corporate responsibility.
that a practical system exists for identifying and managing corporate responsibility risks.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Board is committed to preventing accidents Kazakhmys approach to managing corporate that represent a risk to people, the environment and responsibility brings real bene ts to the Group: Kazakhmys facilities.
It believes all work-related it builds relationships.
Kazakhmys bene ts from accidents are preventable and that all employees the trust of employees, customers, suppliers and have a responsibility to achieve this goal.
opinion formers, as well as local communities and government bodies.
This impacts positively The Groups objective is zero fatalities.
The on our ability to conduct business: number of fatalities in 2007 was 23, which, whilst it improves reputation.
A commitment to raising representing a reduction from 32 fatalities in 2006, corporate responsibility performance helps the remains totally unacceptable.
Of these fatalities, 10 Group to attract and retain employees with the were due to moving machinery, four each to roof fall requisite skills and abilities.
It also enhances the and electrocution, three to falling objects and one Groups reputation with other stakeholders: and each to fall from height and road traf c. The cause it helps preserve value.
By ensuring the Group of every fatal accident is investigated and reported identi es, evaluates and mitigates corporate to the GHSE Committee, and reviewed by the responsibility risks that could damage Kazakhmys Fatal Accident Review Panel.
In Kazakhstan, a reputation and financial performance.
State-appointed commission also investigates all fatal accidents.
OUR PLACE IN THE KAZAKHSTAN ECONOMY To place Kazakhmys operations within Kazakhstan To achieve the objective of zero fatalities requires into a proper context, it is necessary to describe the Group to make signi cant strides to improve its the contribution of Kazakhmys to the Kazakhstan approach to health and safety management and national economy.
The following gures are based to develop a safety focused culture.
Group and on 2006 data the latest national gures available.
local health and safety programmes, safety audits and formal accident investigations, together with As a percentage of Kazakhstans national gross continued investment in training and safety domestic product, the total of wages and salaries, equipment systems form the key elements of our and corporate and income taxes represented 0.7%.
drive to continually raise standards and develop Similarly, as a percentage of Kazakhstans national a safety culture throughout the Group.
investment, Kazakhmys total capital expenditure of both a business and social nature represented The drive to deliver better safety performance was 0.85%.
The total workforce represented 0.83% of evidenced through a reduction in the number of Kazakhstans employed workforce.
fatalities arising from roof fall to four in 2007 2006: 14.
Regrettably, the number of fatalities as a result If these gures were to be calculated at the local of moving machinery doubled in 2007 to 10, and level of Kazakhmys sites in Kazakhstan relative to our actions continue to focus on employee attitudes each of their local communities, their importance and behaviour across all aspects of our operations.
would be signi cantly higher.
Even though To this end, three Fatal Risk Protocols were adopted We are committed to the protection and safety of our people KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 45 during the year covering working at height, conveyor certi cation of an initial 20 sites to OHSAS 18001 transport and underground mobile equipment.
Further Fatal Risk Protocols will be adopted in 2008 to cover other areas of signi cant risk.
MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Kazakhmys aims to carry out its activities in an As part of health and safety management, environmentally friendly manner, focusing on the work-related accident statistics are recorded.
These responsible use and management of water, energy are based on Kazakhstan regulatory reporting and waste, minimising air pollution and undertaking requirements, which are not in line with international appropriate land rehabilitation.
The Group continues to focus on achieving an internationally OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS recognised industry measure as a basis for Water is an important natural resource and its comparison with our peers and to report upon in availability in many parts of the world has come external reports.
Incidents of occupational diseases under pressure as consumption continues to affecting employees are measured across the grow.
Effective water management is critical to the Group, including dust induced lung disease and long-term viability of a number of our operations, vibration sickness.
as they are located in environmentally sensitive areas.
Our total water usage fell by around 10% to During 2007 a number of actions and initiatives were 179,500 megalitres in 2007 2006: 198,954 megalitres undertaken across the Group to improve health and as a result of lower output from mining and safety, including: smelting activities.
a visit by senior management to a number of mines in South Africa owned by international Kazakhmys recognises that climate change is a real mining companies to benchmark our approach international and community issue and commits to safety, resulting in the introduction of new itself to contribute to nding and implementing electrical safety procedures and supervisors solutions to the challenges it poses.
Our monitoring having greater responsibility for safety matters: of emissions includes those of sulphur dioxide introduction of protective equipment standards: SO, nitrogen oxides NO, carbon dioxide CO, 2 X 2 issuing employees in Kazakhstan with a pocket arsenic, ash and dust.
guide to the Group Safety Policy, covering 16 key safety rules: One of our key environmental targets is the development of a programme for all sites with reduction of SO emissions.
In 2007, SO emissions 2 2 an operational life exceeding five years to be from our metallurgical operations were 706,591 certi ed to OHSAS 18001 by 2012: tonnes 2006: 775,837 tonnes, which represents a introduction of a con dential safety hotline.
The building of a sulphuric acid plant at the Balkhash Complex will reduce the Our key health and safety management actions Complexs pollution discharge by six fold, as well for 2008 include: as enabling it to produce approximately 1.2 million the opening of a training centre in Satpayev, tonnes of sulphuric acid each year from the Kazakhstan to train above and below ground by-products of the smelting process.
The ecological employees on a range of operational issues, bene ts of this project will be augmented by including health and safety: economic bene ts for the Group provided by the adoption of an occupational health policy: sharp growth in demand for sulphuric acid in the adoption of further Fatal Risk Protocols: region in recent years.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Business Review 46 Corporate Responsibility continued Kazakhmys recognises that greenhouse gas GHG management specialists being recruited to emissions have as important an environmental provide an enhanced level of service to operating impact as SO emissions.
GHG emissions result from units: and 2 energy combustion at our operations including developing the existing Environmental electricity and heat production, from our vehicles Management System EMS to be consistent and through our strip coal mining processes.
In with ISO 14001, as well as with local regulations.
2007, CO equivalent emissions decreased to As with our safety certi cation programme, 2 9.6 million tonnes 2006: 9.7 million tonnes.
it is planned for all sites with an operational life exceeding five years to be certi ed by 2012.
Kazakhmys recognises the need to minimise disturbance of land as a result of its operations.
Our key environmental management actions for Local legislation requires rehabilitation of site 2008 include: operations that have closed down.
As a condition the development of a baseline environmental of its subsoil use contracts and licences, a provision study, which will be used to formulate a five year is set aside for this purpose, which amounted environmental plan, with a view to ensuring the to $44 million as at 31 December 2007 2006: Groups businesses meet international standards $28.4 million.
for emissions and use of resources: the introduction of environmental training and The generation of waste from the mining process, awareness programmes to raise awareness of including tailings, waste rock and overburden, environmental issues in Kazakhstan: constitutes the most visibly intrusive aspect of our commissioning of the Balkhash sulphuric acid industry.
Since 2006, Kazakhmys has increased the plant: and amount of waste rock back lling in its underground increasing our internal environmental research mines.
The Group continues to explore the available activities, including investigating the risks opportunities to bene cially reuse and recycle its and potential hazards from leakages and waste.
In 2007, Group operations generated 120 MT spillages from sites that are in close proximity of waste 2006: 102 MT.
During 2007 a number of actions and initiatives SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES were undertaken across the Group to reduce our Kazakhmys is committed to supporting local environmental impact, including: communities and remaining sensitive to their needs.
with the support of the GHSEs external Kazakhmys believes it is able to bene t communities environmental adviser, a Group environmental most by concentrating its efforts on projects which policy was developed and distributed to all our are closely related to its operations, allowing it to sites.
This policy takes account of the signi cant strengthen links with local communities.
changes in Kazakhstans environmental legislation introduced in 2007, with stricter Given the importance of our operations in the penalties for breaches, and much higher regions where we operate, it is fair to say that Our fines for non-compliance: complexes are our communities.
Being seen to reviewing the role and structure of the have a responsible social approach is important environmental protection department in to maintaining ongoing positive relationships with Kazakhstan, resulting in 14 environmental these communities and their representatives.
We are committed to supporting our local communities KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 47 DEVELOPING OUR EMPLOYEES Kazakhmys works with local communities to ensure that they bene t from our presence on an enduring With a workforce of over 65,000 people, Kazakhmys is committed to improving the basis.
In 2007, Kazakhmys spent a total of over $100 million on social responsibility costs and conditions in which employees operate and to optimise their performance.
investment activities, including infrastructure investments, support for local groups, provision Each employee has an employment agreement.
for disadvantaged individuals and support for local government services.
Kazakhmys Corporation LLC also negotiates collective employment agreements, primarily Examples of the nature of activities undertaken are covering social bene ts, with representatives of its trade unions, which represent nearly all shown in the range of infrastructure investment activities undertaken by our Balkhash Complex for its employees.
the bene t of its local community.
These included: construction of churches and mosques: Kazakhmys aims to ensure that all employees perform to their highest potential.
To this end, development of recreational centres: road construction and maintenance projects: employees have the opportunity to participate in training and development in a number of elds construction of apartment accommodation: provision of hot water from its heating plants related to their role.
For example, each year a number of employees are selected to attend at subsidised rates: development of kindergartens: courses at universities and mining schools in Kazakhstan, China and Russia.
In addition, the provision of sporting facilities and support for sporting clubs and organisations: Group provides a number of medical, dental, leisure and holiday facilities in Kazakhstan at provision and maintenance of dental and medical centres: and either no cost or at subsidised rates to its employees, their families and pensioners.
provision of health and spa resorts.
Our key employee management actions for In addition to the signi cant infrastructure investments and support for organisations, 2008 include: enhancing employee development programmes Kazakhmys contributes to a number of local community activities, including artistic and in Kazakhstan, including systems to better identify training needs: cultural performances, and local events such as the 70th anniversary of Balkhash city.
introducing a performance appraisal programme for employees in Kazakhstan: As well as supporting sport and educational establishing a training school, which will be based on the principles of a corporate university: and organisations, Kazakhmys provides support for individuals in their communities, such as providing introducing a number of internal communication initiatives to further develop and embed financial assistance for medical treatment, and subsidising the costs of in uenza immunisation and corporate culture and to share best practice across operations.
It also provides support for community bodies such as veterans and disability groups.
