Corporate Social Responsibility How we go about our business By taking our wider responsibilities seriously we can make a real difference Kelda Group plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction As a provider of essential drinking water and sanitation, we recognise the responsible role we play in society and in the protection and improvement of our environment.
Making a difference in society is integral to Keldas Yorkshire Water is approach to business and an essential part of an organisation that is building a successful and sustainable water company.
Our CSR website dedicated to CSR and For more detail and case studies relating The successful operation of our business makes to our CSR performance, including our excellence in making a a huge contribution to the quality of life of our full statement of CSR principles and customers and the protection and improvement positive impact on society.
performance tables, visit: of the environment.
To make clear progress, our http: csr.
com Pam Lee, Regional Director of customers and stakeholders need to see that To ask a question or share your comments, Business in the Community we are running our business in an efficient and email us at: csr@yorkshirewater.
co. uk responsible way and that we are delivering a great customer service.
Getting these fundamentals right gives us a great platform to deliver further value to society and go beyond regulation where we believe the benefits 97% exceed the cost.
We scored 97% in Business in the As a public service provider, we also want to be a Communitys 2006 Corporate Responsibility good neighbour.
In 2006, 38% of our people took Index and 97.25% in the Environment Index, making part in community volunteering in Yorkshire alone us platinum players in both.
and they are great ambassadors for our business in society.
Our service partners also played a big part in our volunteering programme last year, recognising the benefits to their own operations.
Where practical, we also want to be enjoyable to deal with and in 2006 we invested in recreational Our managers are encouraged to take on facilities at our reservoirs, including new routes, significant external leadership roles bringing their customer-friendly signage, bridleways, cycle routes skills and experience to charities, businesses and and disabled access.
We also work hard to build strong relationships with regional leaders and These investments and activities are not driven by the many stakeholders who work in partnership regulation, but by our aspiration to put something with us, or take an interest in our business.
back into the communities we serve and to delight our customers.
They are also fundamentally good It is important to us that we are trusted and business and in line with our basic philosophy of that customers see that we provide good value striking the right balance in our operations, in a for money and take into account their point of way which provides benefits for all.
For example, last year we invested in new technology to cut roadworks and interruptions Further information and evidence of the clear to supply, modelling our service around what progress we are making can be found on our is important to our customers, rather than new CSR website and a flavour of our work is convenient to us as a business.
included in this short CSR review.
Kevin Whiteman Chief Executive, Kelda Group plc Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Our role in the environment We remain committed to conserving and enhancing our environment, striving to achieve 100% regulatory compliance and continuous environmental improvement.
Environmental management Driving energy improvements Enjoying our land setting the pace We have been proactively driving energy efficiency This year, Yorkshire Water launched a new We continue to drive environmental best practice throughout our operations and increasing the website which promotes the recreational through our operations, with over 90% of the Kelda amount of renewable energy we generate, with opportunities available on our land.
Group now covered by Environmental Management an aspiration for 10% of our energy to be Podcasts guiding visitors on walks around Systems certified to IS014001.
This year we generated in-house by 2010.
Over the past year selected reservoirs have been recorded by achieved Platinum Status in Business in the we have commissioned four new Combined Heat John Craven as well as fellow Yorkshire Communitys Environment Index for the fifth and Power units and improved the performance celebrities Nell McAndrew, Gaynor Faye and consecutive year and received a number of awards of existing equipment to increase our renewable Harry Gration.
The aim is to raise customers in recognition of our environmental best practice.
We are actively awareness of our role as stewards of the Yorkshire Water collected two Green Apple researching further opportunities for renewable countryside and as a provider of numerous environment awards and a Big Tick re-accreditation generation and have obtained planning permission leisure opportunities, such as walking, for its Environmental Management System.
We are for three new wind turbines.
In addition, we are fishing, riding, cycling, wind-surfing and now half way through the implementation of our currently constructing a new Combined Heat and rowing.
For more information and to innovative Geographical Information Systems-based Power plant and hydroturbine at our Esholt Waste download a walk pack or podcast, visit Biodiversity Action Plan, and continue to work Water treatment works.
closely with our independent Environmental Advisory Panel of 22 key regional stakeholders Targets for 2007 08 to ensure we continue to lead the way in Deliver the 2007 08 commitments of the 227m environmental management.
Freshwater Fish Directive investment programme to further enhance the river life of Yorkshire.
Tackling climate change Continue to implement a five year land and We are committed to managing our carbon recreation strategy to help delight customers emissions to assist in the mitigation of climate around our region and enhance as well as change and are working in partnership with the protect our SSSIs.
Carbon Trust to achieve this.
We are currently Retain Platinum Status in Business in the developing a Yorkshire Water 25 year climate Communitys Environment Index.
change strategy, which will set out a programme Increase our renewable energy generation by of research and activities for mitigating and 30% to drive towards achieving 10% of our adapting to climate change.
The new strategy energy requirements through self-generated will also enable us to consider the carbon renewable energy by 2010. footprint effects of our investment decisions Complete the next stage of our Biodiversity which in turn will allow us to take a more active Action Plan.
role in working with the Government on designing future environmental legislation.
We have a range of other environmental targets which can be found on our website at: http: csr.
com Kelda Group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Our role in society Our aim is to impact positively on communities through volunteering, sharing skills and providing educational support for local schools.
Yorkshire Water sets the Our colleagues are actively encouraged to Walk for Water volunteer to develop skills such as leadership, benchmark on developing In 2006, our successful Cool Schools coaching or public speaking through a wide campaign, through which we provided a culture of employee range of programmes.
For example, our Newlands over 1,400 free mains-fed water coolers Business Bridge initiative helps colleagues develop volunteering which delivers in 750 local primary schools, concluded.
mentoring skills through supporting social real impact across a diverse A highlight was that 1,600 children took enterprises and was awarded a prestigious part in Walk for Water to help raise money range of initiatives.
Business in the Community Big Tick in 2006. to install water coolers in their schools.
Liz Needleman, Our education centres continued to be extremely yorkshire and Humberside Regional Cares busy this year with over 8,400 visitors.
Since 2003, Director, Business in the Community 35,000 children have visited one of our three education centres in Leeds, Sheffield and North Yorkshire, to learn about the water cycle.
All of our community initiatives are linked to our capital investment programme, so that the 38% communities we work in receive something in addition to water quality and environmental 38% of our colleagues are involved in our improvements.
This year, we delivered safety volunteering programme presentations to over 4,300 children and teachers potentially affected by our works.
Giving our time Many of our colleagues give to charity through In 2006 07, a record number of 886 Payroll Giving and are involved in fundraising colleagues and 153 service partners took through our Waterwheelers team and WaterAid part in our volunteering programme, Committee.
Colleagues raised a record 258,000 beating our target of 30% of colleagues 1,400 for WaterAid this year through events such as to be involved in volunteering over the WaterAware Week and the Six Peaks Challenge.
We invested the equivalent of over, 400 free Cool Schools water coolers have 144,000 of our colleagues time in been installed in primary schools Whats next?
The launch of a major new community campaign.
Developed in close liaison with internal and external stakeholders, it covers a broad agenda of health, environment and education and aims to achieve our aspiration to be a national role model for volunteering by 2010.
For more detail and case studies relating to our community programme, visit: http: csr.
com Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Our people We aim to create a great place to work, where colleagues feel proud to work for us, can maximise their potential and receive the recognition and reward they deserve.
I was recruited as a field We aspire to attract, develop and retain the best Think Safety First people.
In 2007, we launched an e-recruitment management team scheduler In 2006 07, our new Think Safety First system to provide a more positive experience at 57 years of age.
In my campaign raised the profile of health for candidates when exploring opportunities and safety, ensuring Yorkshire Water is a and applying for roles with us online.
opinion, Yorkshire Water is great, healthy and safe place to work.
a fair and good employer Initiatives include new Think Safety First Investment in people through training and personal site signage, an employee Team Talk DVD where everyone has the same development remains a high priority.
In 2007, to share accident experiences, a we repeated our popular Career Development opportunity to progress.
behavioural safety training programme Workshop, enabling colleagues to explore and and a Big Number on the intranet, Roger Ferreira, Field Support Technician develop their career and life goals.
showing the number of days since the last accident.
We have also introduced a In 2006 07 we discussed and agreed ways to health and safety leadership training modernise Yorkshire Waters formal consultation, module and integrated health and safety information and negotiation arrangements.
In 2007 08 we plan to move to a fully inclusive approach, based on partnership principles agreed 80% between the company and the trade unions.
New forums, representing both unionised and 80% of Yorkshire Water colleagues participating non-unionised colleagues, will consult and in the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies to Work communicate on matters affecting our people.
for 2007 survey said they are proud to work for the company Whats next?
We will continue to develop a culture of Think Safety First.
During 2007, the European Year of Diversity, we will hold a diversity conference and apply our learning across the business.
For more detail and case studies relating to our people visit: http: csr.
com Kelda Group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Our customers Our customers continue to benefit from industry leading service levels.
Our aspiration is to exceed expectations at every point of contact, providing a customer experience second to none.
To pick up the title of Utility This year, we have: Great customer service Won UK Utility of the Year for the third time at of the Year for a third year Our Clearwater initiative aims to improve the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 2006. service through seeking out and designing running was a remarkable Again met the Governments Charter Mark technology to minimise customer impacts.
standard for excellence in customer service.
We were As part of Clearwater, Yorkshire Water Again achieved four A ratings and been named is driving innovation unlike anything impressed with Yorkshire as the most efficient water and sewerage currently used in the industry.
In 2006, Waters obvious pride company in the UK, with Ofwat labelling us as Johnny Ball helped to demonstrate an the benchmark company for operating costs.
endescope, commonly used in surgery and ambition.
Achieved high quality drinking water.
The a thermal imaging camera which can Judges of the Utility of the Year Drinking Water Inspectorates 2006 Report be inserted into pipes to identify any 2006 utility Industry Achievement Awards stated that the quality of customers drinking potential problems and the need for any water in Yorkshire remains high, with a maintenance work.
Using this type of compliance level of 99.94%.
technology means reducing the number Achieved our highest ever score for customer of excavations carried out.
service in the Ofwat Performance Assessment Table, achieving second place for operational 93% and customer service excellence.
93% of the 220 customers we randomly Whats next?
telephone each month are satisfied with the We aspire to work towards zero customer service we provide impact failures, zero excavations, zero road traffic congestion and proactive, not reactive, customer service.
For more detail and case studies relating New billing system to our customer service programme, visit: In 2006 Yorkshire Water introduced http: csr.
com YorBill, a new contact and billing system to enhance flexibility, service and opportunities to introduce innovative ways for customers to see and pay their bills through technologies such as mobile phones and interactive television.
Around 1.3m bills were successfully issued using YorBill in Spring 2007.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Our service partners We work closely with our service partners to share our aims, objectives, best practice and success, helping us to deliver a better service, supporting the communities we serve.
Our partners share the same high levels of Colleagues from Mott MacDonald Bentley and Community Spirit Awards commitment to customers and communities as Yorkshire Waters West Yorkshire team held an Our annual Community Spirit Awards we do.
In 2006, Balfour Beatty Utilities was named open day in 2006 to showcase how 30m has celebrate voluntary work carried out by Utilities Customer Service team of the Year at the been invested in the areas waste water services colleagues and partners.
In 2007, over National Customer Service Awards.
Working in over the last two years.
The event included 1,000 was collected through the partnership with Yorkshire Water on our two year practical demonstrations of the latest innovations WaterAid raffle at the event, with partners such as Costains, Earth Tech Morrison scheme to upgrade 95km of water mains at Ilkley, used on construction sites, including concrete ETM, RPS Consultants and Mott West Yorkshire, the project is a customer and team which looks like a dry stone wall, pre-cast units MacDonald Bentley donating prizes.
focused approach, ensuring work is ahead of for reservoir wave walls and prefabricated schedule with minimal disruptions.
reinforcements which save money whilst Costain won the Contract Partner of the preventing accidents.
Year Award for their contribution to the Watermark, who improve our waste water community, with Watermark being highly system in South Yorkshire, have an innovative commended.
approach to health and safety.
Their zero accident culture has resulted in no reportable For more detail and case studies accidents on Yorkshire Water schemes during relating to our partners, visit: 2006 07.
Accidents are well below the national http: csr.
com average, leading Watermark to achieve Gold Award status in the RoSPA safety awards.
In 2006, Earth Tech Morrison treated pupils at Holy Spirit Primary School in Heckmondwike to an unusual school outing.
Pupils were given safety gear and talks and taken to an excavation in their school playing field to see how an underground storm chamber is being installed to hold excess We fully support Yorkshire waste water, which can then be slowly released Waters Community Affairs back into the sewerage system.
The children then programme as it makes a created a newspaper report on their experience of the flood prevention scheme.
positive difference to the quality of peoples lives, All of our contract partners helped with many Cares Challenges in 2006 07 supporting leaving a lasting legacy to community groups in areas where we carried out their customers.
It benefits capital improvement works.
For example, Laing employees personal ORourke spent their evenings re-painting and refurbishing the changing room, entrance and development, providing an toilets of the Burton Pidsea Memorial Hall in East enriching working life.
Yorkshire, as well as making safe the childrens playground, leading to increased visitors.
Maria Melton Relationships, Learning and Improvement Manager, Costain Ltd Kelda Group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
