T Th he e B Bo oa ar rd ds s r ro olle e iis s t to o e en ns su ur re e t th ha at t a ap pp pr ro op pr riia at te e p po olliic ciie es s a an nd d s sy ys st te em ms s a ar re e iin n p plla ac ce e t to o iid fide en nt tiif fy y, m mo on niit to or r a an nd d m ma an na ag ge e t th he e s so oc ciia all, e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta all a an nd d h he ea allt th h a an nd d s sa af fe et ty y r riis sk ks s w wh hiic ch h a ar re e m ma at te er riia all t to o t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s b bu us siin ne es ss se es s a an nd d w wh hiic ch h a ar re e a ap pp po os siit te e t to o t th he e g ge eo og gr ra ap ph hiie es s iin n w wh hiic ch h t th he ey y o op pe er ra at te e S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y The Board recognises that its KPIs, beyond the safety KPIs which are Director is responsible for ensuring that responsibilities extend beyond financial currently monitored by the Board, to health and safety policies and procedures results and related matters.
Effective incorporate some common measures of are established and adhered to throughout management of social and environmental our environmental management.
Managers and other risk is important to our corporate progress will be reported on next year.
employees also have a responsibility for reputation and profitability.
implementing and complying with the Environmental matters are assuming an health and safety policy of the business ever-greater importance for the Group.
The Boards role is to ensure that in which they work.
Companies within the For instance, in Continental Europe, our appropriate policies and systems are in Group have procedures for accident senior management has contributed to the place to identify, monitor and manage the investigation, in order to determine the preparation of the Sustainability Charter of social, environmental, ethical and health causes of accidents, and to recommend the European Federation of Foundation and safety risks which are material to the and implement corrective actions.
Contractors and is intending to adopt the Groups businesses and which are apposite principles and commitments contained to the geographies in which they operate.
Each business within the Group is within the Charter, which cover the Each company within the Group is committed to continual improvement in safe environment, stakeholders and marketplace responsible for ensuring that it meets local working practices and in health and safety relations, as the basis for its own statutory requirements as a minimum and is training.
Accidents are systematically sustainability programme.
also encouraged to reflect identified best reported and training procedures reviewed.
Compliance with legal requirements is a We see four main areas in particular where minimum standard for all health and safety The Group does not have a single, one our business impacts on others and where policies throughout the Group.
The Board size fits all approach to social responsibility we recognise our responsibilities to society: reviews health and safety on a quarterly SR issues and this largely reflects the Our workplace and people basis and also monitors leading indicators Groups diverse geographic profile and Our marketplace and relationships such as accident rates, safety training the different business cultures within which with industry colleagues hours and safety initiatives in place.
However, there is a common Protecting our environment The Board also reviews key indicators set of ethical values which is predominant Community relations over a longer time horizon in order throughout our business practices and to identify any significant trends.
which is encapsulated in a new Code of Our workplace and people Business Conduct, which we propose to H He ea allt th h a an nd d S Sa af fe et ty y S Sa af fe et ty y P Pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e iin n 2 20 00 07 7 communicate to all our key stakeholders The health and safety of all Keller Group Keller uses the accident frequency rate in 2008. employees is an important and integral part AFR and accident incident rate AIR to of our business activity.
The Board is track the safety performance of its Due to the nature of our business, we have committed to providing a healthy and safe businesses, where AFR is the number of for many years had robust health and working environment for all our employees accidents per 100,000 hours worked and safety monitoring.
This year, we plan to and contractors.
Each divisional Managing AIR is the number of accidents per 100,000 extend our SR key performance indicators S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y Keller Group plc 2 25 5 S Se ev five er ra all c co om mp pa an niie es s w wiit th hiin n t th he e G Gr ro ou up p a ar re e n no ow w a ad do op pt tiin ng g a a b be eh ha av viio ou ur ra all a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h t to o s sa af fe et ty y m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t, w wo or rk kiin ng g w wiit th h a allll e em mp pllo oy ye ee es s o on n c ch ha an ng giin ng g a at tt tiit tu ud fide es s t to o s sa af fe et ty y iis ss su ue es s iin n t th he e w wo or rk kp plla ac ce e a an nd d p plla ac ciin ng g a an n e ev five en n g gr re ea at te er r e em mp ph ha as siis s o on n a ac cc ciid fide en nt t p pr re ev five en nt tiio on n Thinksafe, our UK safety programme, seeks to change attitudes to safety in the workplace.
S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y continued employees and where accidents C Ch ha an ng ge es s iin n t th he e a an nn nu ua all A Ac cc ciid fide en nt t F Fr re eq qu ue en nc cy y R Ra at te e A AF FR R a an nd d A Ac cc ciid fide en nt t IIn nc ciid fide en nt t comprise fatalities, major injuries as defined R Ra at te e A AIIR R by the Health & Safety Executive in the UK 2 20 00 07 7 2006 and injuries involving more than three days A AF FR R A AIIR R AFR AIR absence.
The AFRs and AIRs for 2007 are USA, excl.
Excludes Anderson, Phi and Piling Contractors, for which we do not have full data.
C Co om mp pa ar riis so on ns s w wiit th h IIn nd du us st tr ry y S St ta an nd da ar rd ds s The common safety measure used in the The rates for 2005, which are still the most Professional Health Insurance for AlsaceNorth American construction industry is recent available, show an Incident Rate of Moselle for Best Health & Safety at Work the experience modification rating EMR.
2,860 and a Frequency Rate of 1.45, but Policy.
Keller France also received an award A low score indicates a good safety record.
these statistics only reflect occurrences from the National Public Works Contractors In 2007, the EMR for the US foundation resulting in absence of one week or more, Association for its employee health and businesses together referred to as KFI whereas our rates shown in the above table safety survey and the resulting improvement was 0.57 2006: 0.59, against an industry include all occurrences resulting in absence in safety awareness and behaviour.
Also, all standard rating of 1.00.
It is pleasing to of three days or more.
of our US foundation businesses received note that on this measure KFIs safety safety awards from the International The 2007 average AIR for members of performance has improved every year since Association of Foundation Drilling.
the Federation of Piling Specialists, the 2001, when it stood at 0.73. most appropriate comparator group in Several companies within the Group are We continue to try to find industry average the UK, was 2,263, indicating that the now adopting a behavioural approach to statistics for the territories in which Kellers safety performance in 2007 of Keller safety management, working with all Continental Europe, Middle East and Asia Ground Engineering KGE at 2,140 was employees on changing attitudes to safety CEMEA business operates.
As yet, none slightly better than the average for its sector issues in the workplace and placing an are available.
even greater emphasis on accident prevention.
In the UK, this is being driven In Australia, the closest industry During the year, several Keller companies by the Thinksafe initiative, which includes comparators are the construction industry received safety awards.
In Singapore, we safety awareness training for everyone: Frequency Rate and Incident Rate won the title of Contractor of the Month the development of safety coaches and published by the National Occupational under the Shell Houdini ECC Project safety mentors on site and in offices: and the Health & Safety Commission NOHSC.
In France, we introduction of a safety element in the received an award from the Regional bonus programme.
2 26 6 Keller Group plc S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y Superintendents at Hayward Baker attend a Sharing knowledge with industry colleagues, Field Leadership Course to learn leadership who observe our ground improvement skills for the jobsite.
techniques in action at a site in Northern Ireland.
T Tr ra aiin niin ng g a an nd d C Co om mm mu un niic ca at tiin ng g progress is followed up once they have For example, whilst working recently on a w wiit th h E Em mp pllo oy ye ee es s returned to their own countries.
contract in Northern Ireland, KGE organised Throughout the year, businesses within the a special visit to the site for students from The Group continued to undertake significant Group communicate regularly with all their Queens University, Belfast in order to show non-technical management training throughout employees using a number of forums and its specialist rigs in action.
The following the year, using a number of different media channels.
These include company day a seminar and site demonstration visit management development programmes.
newsletters, consultative councils, was held for 35 local engineers.
These included learning modules for local suggestion schemes, electronic messaging managers, strategic development Many of our senior managers take a as well as informal, company-wide social programmes and executive programmes leading role in the geotechnical construction events.
We encourage a two-way dialogue for the senior management teams.
industrys professional associations and with all employees, and provide channels activities around the world.
They are for feedback and comment on the Groups A An nn nu ua all IIn nn no ov va at tiio on n A Aw wa ar rd d S Sc ch he em me e involved in writing building codes, activities.
Companies within the Group During the year KGE introduced an Annual specifications, and guidelines, as well provide employees with advice on technical Innovation Awards Scheme to encourage as making presentations at seminars, developments within our sector, and also employees to put forward ideas which will teaching short courses and researching support membership of professional contribute towards increasing efficiency, new construction methods.
quality, productivity or safety within the In September 2007, for example, the All companies in the Group undertake a workplace.
Three cash awards are made Western region of Hayward Baker ran wide range of technical training and typical annually for the best ideas.
two highly successful ground modification examples of this can be found in our seminars focusing on the treatment options European business where, during 2007, we Our marketplace and relationships available for soft soils.
Each seminar introduced a Drivers Licence for machine with industry colleagues focused on the exchange of best practice operators.
Having put some 100 operators Group companies take a leadership role and leading edge information and advice.
through the course in Austria, the scheme within their industry by providing employees, This was followed by a problem-solving is now being rolled out in other countries.
customers, suppliers and potential session in which the several groups of employees with technical papers, seminars, Our European business has also recently attendees worked to develop a solution field trips and site visits.
Staff from developed the Keller Academy, for the to a real-life problem.
companies throughout the Group maintain training of young engineers.
The close contact with certain universities in programme incorporates a significant Protecting our environment order to share best practice and provide element of practical training in specific Environmental management is an essential examples of their leading edge engineering geotechnical subjects.
Around a dozen part of our approach to good business excellence.
engineers from several countries attend the management, particularly as the Groups course which is held twice a year and their construction-related activities can have direct environmental impacts.
Costs of S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y Keller Group plc 2 27 7 Left: Suncoasts Wafflemat can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 20% compared with conventional slab foundations.
Right: Stockton, California is one of several ethanol plant sites at which we worked last year.
S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y continued waste disposal, energy and construction helping to remind Hayward Bakers staff of D Dr riiv five en n C Ca as st t iin n S Siit tu u P Piilliin ng g, D Dy yn na am miic c materials are all increasing, so managing their turn it off rule, which aims to spread C Co om mp pa ac ct tiio on n a an nd d S So oiill M Miix xiin ng g our environmental inputs and outputs is best practice in waste avoidance and Like stone columns, some of the Groups also integral to reducing site operational energy efficiency in operational procedures other most commonly used techniques costs and increasing efficiency.
including driven cast in situ piling, dynamic compaction and soil mixing avoid the Going forward, we will be focusing In addition to trying to reduce their own creation of spoil from the ground.
This in environmental management actions operational environmental impacts, turn, eliminates transport movements to in four key areas of our businesses: companies within the Keller Group are and from landfill sites.
These systems are Reducing site waste engaged in a variety of techniques which particularly relevant where toxic matter is Reducing the use of site fuel and reduce the environmental impacts arising contained within the ground and where company car van fuel from the construction process.
They include: materials can remain in situ, rather than Reducing our operational energy be removed for treatment and disposal.
S St to on ne e C Co ollu um mn ns s a an nd d E En nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta all consumption S St to on ne e C Co ollu um mn ns s Reducing our paper usage and S So of ft t- -f fa ac ce ed d R Re eiin nf fo or rc ciin ng g S Sy ys st te em ms s increasing our recycling Stone columns, using only inert stone, are Phis soft facing reinforcing systems are generally considered to be environmentally All four priority areas also mean we can often offered as an alternative to sheet friendly alternatives to the steel or concrete make reductions in our Group Carbon piling.
These systems also reduce the need products for which they are often Footprint.
In the UK, our businesses are to remove soil and replace with expensive substitutes.
Not only are steel and concrete starting to develop systems for measuring filling.
Instead, softwood type timber can more expensive, but they also have and monitoring their output of carbon be used to create steeper retaining walls, additional environmental impacts in terms dioxide emissions CO2 and setting targets enabling a greater area of land to be used of higher carbon dioxide emissions.
to reduce this on an annual basis.
All of our timber is from a Increasingly, stone columns use recycled addition, these companies are establishing renewable material resource, with a lower aggregates, which, for example, made up working groups in order to share ideas and carbon footprint compared to more approximately 25% of our aggregate best practice and to develop environmental traditional piling systems.
KPIs, through which our progress in reducing our carbon footprint can be evaluated.
Now, in addition, environmental stone W Wa af ff flle em ma at t S Sy ys st te em m f fo or r C Co on nc cr re et te e columns have been developed in the UK S Slla ab b F Fo ou un nd da at tiio on n In the US, Hayward Baker, the largest of by KGE for use in the treatment of Suncoast offers a foundation forming our US foundation businesses, is reviewing contaminated land.
The columns unique system which reduces the amount of its equipment fleet and ensuring that new design and material content prevent the concrete required for slab foundations.
machines operate with increased efficiency, seepage of contamination via rainwater into This in turn reduces climate change burning less fuel and emitting fewer uncontaminated, underlying ground.
emissions by as much as 20% when emissions.
An awareness campaign is compared to conventional foundation systems which have higher concrete input.
2 28 8 Keller Group plc S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y Top: At Sentosa Island, Singapore, we are IIn n a ad dd diit tiio on n t to o t tr ry yiin ng g treating excavated spoil, which is supplementing a dwindling supply of local sand.
t to o r re ed du uc ce e t th he eiir r Bottom: KGE is supporting SIM UK in a o ow wn n o op pe er ra at tiio on na all project to engage Nairobis street children in chicken farming.
e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta all iim mp pa ac ct ts s, c co om mp pa an niie es s w wiit th hiin n t th he e K Ke elllle er r G Gr ro ou up p a ar re e e en ng ga ag ge ed d iin n a a v va ar riie et ty y o of f t te ec ch hn niiq qu ue es s w wh hiic ch h r re ed du uc ce e t th he e e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta all iim mp pa ac ct ts s a ar riis siin ng g f fr ro om m t th he e c co on ns st tr ru uc ct tiio on n p pr ro oc ce es ss s Companies within the Keller Group also S So oiill D fide ec co on nt ta am miin na at tiio on n P Pr ro ojje ec ct t a at t For example, employees at KGE are undertake projects which deliver P Po or rt t E Ev five er rg glla ad fide es s, F Fllo or riid da a, U US S providing financial support to the charity environmentally beneficial solutions, and We provided foundation support for SIM UK, which works with deprived street which complement the Groups product 13 planned petroleum storage tanks at children in Nairobi, Kenya.
These projects include land Port Everglades, where the ground was donated funds and helped plan a specific reclamation schemes, soil erosion control, underlain by contaminated organic soil.
project for chicken farming at a site outside flood control, decontamination, brownfield Using the mass dry soil mixing method, Nairobi.
Here former street children will be land preparation and foundations for we treated over 36,000 cubic yards of able to raise poultry, thus enabling them renewable energy facilities.
Some examples the contaminated soil, taking care not to to live self sufficiently in a safer and more from around the Group in 2007 include: disturb a troop of wild monkeys which comfortable environment.
had made their home in the area.
Anderson are working with Rescue Task S Sn ny yd fide er r W Wiin nd d F Fa ar rm m, T Te ex xa as s, U US S Force, a not for profit international We provided the foundation excavation L La an nd d R Re ec clla am ma at tiio on n a at t S Se en nt to os sa a IIs slla an nd d, organisation which is helping injured for 21 highly efficient wind turbine S Siin ng ga ap po or re e American troops returning from war.
generators which were erected in West We have worked on several land Anderson is providing backpacks Central Texas at a record setting pace.
reclamation projects in the Far East, containing personal items for wounded Each turbine required a minimum five-metre one of which, at Sentosa Island, is using soldiers which aid recovery.
excavated spoil, because of a shortage of sand in the region.
We have developed Similarly, much of the Groups charitable E Et th ha an no oll P Plla an nt t C Co on ns st tr ru uc ct tiio on n, a ground treatment solution which treats giving is in conjunction with its employees, C Ca alliif fo or rn niia a, U US S this fill in situ, using deep mixing methods.
whether it is through matched giving We provided stone and soil mix columns schemes, and sponsorship of employees as foundation support for a new ethanol Community relations activities or giving time off to enable production plant in Stockton, California.
Companies within the Keller Group often employees to participate in voluntary The columns will also mitigate seismicplay an important role in their communities.
projects of their own choice.
induced liquefaction as part of a tailor-made, While much of our work is undertaken in Businesses within the Keller Group foundation solution which will provide over remote areas, away from local populations, continue to work to ensure that they meet 6,000 square metres of treated ground to our companies often support their their corporate responsibility objectives support this plant.
employees when they engage with across a diverse range of markets, and community groups and local charities.
with many and varied stakeholders.
This brings direct benefits to the business, in terms of employee satisfaction and development, as well as to the communities with which they work.
S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y Keller Group plc 2 29 9
