The Strategy for Sustainability Operating and financial review policy document was published and distributed widely in print Corporate social reponsibility and electronic form by the Kier sustainability steering group, chaired by main board director, Paul Sheffield, in the summer of 2007, to formalise the Groups strategy on environmental, social and economic issues.
Kier is committed to sustainability Corporate social responsibility CSR is an The Groups strategy document for increasingly important part of what defines sustainability was produced and launched in 2007.
This document marks the first stage a well-managed, trusted company and in fulfilling one of the Boards seven main the Group is committed to addressing objectives laid out in last years annual sustainability through a responsible report by stating clearly the aspirations of the Group in meeting its overall approach to economic, environmental corporate responsibilities: To provide and social issues in all it undertakes.
leadership in the raising of awareness and understanding of sustainability in our workforce, members of our supply chain, our clients and other stakeholders and to encourage participation in achieving our goals.
Drawn up by the Kier sustainability steering group, which is chaired by main board director Paul Sheffield, the strategy for sustainability forms the basis of a Board policy statement designed as a framework within which each of our businesses will further develop and implement their own processes and mechanisms to meet their corporate responsibilities towards economic, environmental and social issues.
The strategy was distributed internally CSR related awards 2006-2007 Category via the company intranet and, externally, Apprentice of the Year Alex Magilton British Institute of Facilities Management Sustainability on the Kier website.
A full issue of the Kier Business in the Community for Yorkshire Journal, the Groups in-house magazine, & Humberside Big Tick for Employability was also dedicated to sustainability in order Considerate Constructors Scheme 1 Gold, 2 Silver, 11 Bronze to demonstrate to all staff the vast array of Contract Journal Diversity activities already being undertaken by Kier Contract Journal Training people in fulfilment of these aspirations for Excellence in Human Resource Management Improving staff morale corporate responsibility.
Green Apple Award x 2 Homes for Islington Apprentice of the Year Awards Ediz Hassan - apprentice joiner Hot Property New Homes Awards Best community development - platinum London Excellence Awards CSR National Green Award Built environment Peterborough Business Awards Environmental business of the year Quality in Construction Safety management RICS Most sustainable building in the south-east RICS Pro Yorkshire Awards Community benefit Royal Institute of British Architects Conservation Royal Institute of British Architects Sustainability Sheffield Business Awards Training West Yorkshire Built in Quality Community project 26 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 1 1.
Sheffield City Council and Kier Sheffield joined the residents and school children of Darnall on a community forestry project to begin the planting of some 2,000 trees to create a pocket woodland for the local community.
Kier Building Maintenance awarded prizes to primary school children from 12 primary schools as part of the Glitter Bin initiative in Stoke-on-Trent, which brought together environmental awareness, creative art and drama to highlight environmental issues, the need for recycling and the dangers of litter.
When Kier Western offered to sponsor a new strip for Writhlington Schools hockey team, they decided to put the kit and their players through their paces by challenging the team to a six-a-side indoor hockey match which was tied at five-all!
Kier Building Maintenance is a partner in the Young Apprenticeships Programme in Construction scheme alongside the Learning & Skills Council, West North West Homes 2 3 Leeds and South South East Homes Leeds.
Initially developed by Leeds College of Building in conjunction with four local schools, the programme runs over two years with students undertaking two vocational training days a week at Leeds College of Building and on construction sites, where they are supported by dedicated supervisors from the Group.
Kier South East has celebrated the completion of a new Tesco store at Pulborough, West Sussex, by sponsoring Pulborough Cricket Club 45 under-16s Colts Team.
The company also organised a day for local school children to be shown around the live building site before it was completed.
Moss Construction organised a tour of the new extension to their primary school for pupils from Thatcham Park School, Newbury.
This project is part of the SECE framework in which several Kier companies are partners.
6 27 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 1 1.
Kier Eastern, while on site at Taverham High School carrying out a programme of extensions and modernisation, has engaged pupils and teachers in the ongoing work so they feel part of the process.
It also supported extra-curricular activities by providing essential clothing for pupils on their tall ship excursion from Torquay to France.
Kier Managed Services is also working on the project which is part of Kier Project Investments Norwich Schools PFI scheme.
Kier Islingtons recent ISO 14001 achievement has been lauded by Islington councillors who were impressed by the importance placed by the company on the use of dual fuel vans to complement the Councils objectives on emissions.
Twigden Homes apprentices working on the Elliott Mews development in Tempsford, Bedfordshire.
This year Kier Building Maintenance was pleased to support Take Our Sons and Daughters to Work Day in both Islington and Harlow.
In total over 30 children attended this international annual event designed to give children a better understanding of where their parents work.
2 4 3 28 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued Business in the Community for Yorkshire & Humberside awarded Kier Building Maintenance a Big Tick Award for Employability.
The strategy for sustainability sets out the and the environment.
This new policy delivering its business, the Group has to following aims: statement now joins the Groups other assess its impact upon, and responsibilities already established policy statements for, the environmental, social and 1.
To increase profitability by making more within our CSR portfolio, including those economic well-being of society at large efficient use of resources, including on equality & diversity, environmental, and the local communities within which labour, materials, water and energy.
whistleblowing, health & safety, and fraud it works in particular.
Where we have responsibility or can awareness.
influence the design on a project, to This commitment is enshrined in the minimise any negative environmental The Group is committed to sustainability following statement within this strategy: impact of our operations through and its delivery through our CSR Kier Group and its trading companies effective waste management, programme as part of our overall vision aspire to build positive relationships within appropriate choice of materials and and core values.
those communities wherever our operations careful consideration of design.
take us we are committed to putting 3.
To provide leadership and raise Environmental management something back as part of everything we awareness of sustainability in our Kier has been accredited to ISO 14001 for do.
We will: workforce, members of our supply its environmental management systems.
chain, our clients and other stakeholders These provide fully externally audited create training and job opportunities and to encourage participation in frameworks by BSI and others which within those communities where meeting our goals.
enable us to effectively benchmark our we work: 4.
To continue to support local communities performance both internally and externally.
be a good neighbour and support through opportunities for employment, We continue to explore environmental appropriate local charities and initiatives: interaction with schools, liaison and best practice and in conjunction with encourage wider employee support for local well-being, contributing MCG and supply chain members, take participation: and to local charities and voluntary all opportunities to ensure sustainable, use our influence to steer change for organisations where appropriate.
environmentally friendly solutions where the better.
To continue to develop and train our practicable.
We are committed to the employees to raise their aspirations and reduction of waste and support and Group businesses plan, invest in, design, to meet the future demands of the participate in the provision of information build, maintain and service the built business and individuals.
relating to the environmental performance environment.
In every one of these activities 6.
To achieve greater sustainability of the construction sector by using we not only benefit society by delivering year-on-year.
To this end each business indicators agreed with the MCG.
this living and working environment, but, unit will develop a strategy setting out in so doing, we inevitably impact upon objectives and targets against these aims.
Kier in the community the natural environment and neighbouring The Groups services, delivered locally, people, albeit usually in the short term.
Two other key aims were also highlighted nationally and internationally through its five It is up to us as individuals, as project in the strategy: integrated divisions, are centred broadly on teams, including those who work with us the provision of the built environment for throughout the supply chain, and as a To enhance our programme of society at large.
As such, the Group and its company, to minimise any negative continuous improvement of health, safety activities have a significant influence over, impact and to maximise the benefits we and welfare standards as an integral part and potential impact upon, the economic, can bring to those communities.
of the management culture in our staff environmental and social well-being of the and throughout our supply chain.
communities in which it operates.
By Fully recognising our corporate To continue to strive to be the Group that recognising, addressing and embracing responsibilities towards society, and to help puts health back into health & safety these issues as a fundamental part of us formalise and structure our approach to and supports its staff with occupational maintaining a sustainable business today, delivering those responsibilities, the Group health and lifestyle advice.
Kier is committed to meeting its corporate has become a member of Business in the social responsibilities for the sake of future Community BITC and is an associate Associated with the promulgation of our generations.
member of the Considerate Constructors new strategy for sustainability initiative, the Scheme CCS.
As mentioned above, the Group also launched a formal and robust The three central pillars that make up the Groups accreditation to ISO 14001 for our Group sustainable procurement policy Group strategy for sustainability concern environmental management systems also statement in 2007.
This policys objective environmental, social and economic issues, covers issues such as noise, vibration, dust is to ensure that, as far as is practicable, each inextricably connected and mutually and pollution controls, thereby contributing we purchase materials and services that dependent upon the others.
Therefore, to the effective implementation of our through their use, sourcing, or manufacture, when addressing the overall topic of community relations plan.
have the smallest impact on both society community relations in the context of 29 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued The Kier Residential Apprenticeship Scheme has recently seen its first anniversary and as the exam results flow in it is evident that this has been an excellent first year for the 42 trainees, some of whom are pictured.
Environmental key performance Actual Actual Actual The Group is a committed equal indicators for Construction division 04 05 05 06 06 07 opportunities employer.
Our equality and Cost of waste as % of revenue 0.37 0.35 0.33 diversity policy is available on our website, Kilogrammes of carbon emitted per square metre 82.63 74.13 49.16 as is our commitment to sustainability Environmental training days per person year 0.19 0.10 0.15 and corporate responsibility.
Kier chief Infringements 0 0 0 executive, John Dodds, is the director responsible for all personnel and human resource issues, including health, safety and welfare, and reports to the Board on both opportunities and risks associated with personnel matters.
To further assist all Group employees The key areas of Group support during the People development and training to engage in delivering best practice year are as follows: The Group is committed to the lifelong community relations in their workplace, we development of all its employees.
Our 000 are producing a document, Guidance for approach involves recruiting talented Education 3 project-based best practice in Community people into the industry and a career Sports 27 Relations, for both staff and subcontractors.
development framework that supports Wider community events 23 It is designed to give everyone within the people from entry level to senior leadership Employee sponsored challenges 2 Group ideas and a tool-kit to improve and and prepares our teams to meet and exceed Direct support for the needy 44 make more consistent our approach to our customers requirements.
Our career Other 10 community relations as well as to explain development framework incorporates a Total 109 some of the processes available to us series of programmes, covering people through membership of the BITC and CCS at all stages of their careers.
Leading Group companies contributing to schemes.
It also encourages all staff to this total were Kier Sheffield, Kier Building participate in local initiatives to support The Group is committed to its equal Maintenance in London, Kier Construction children and schools, to get involved in opportunities policy that encourages and Kier Property.
local charitable activities and to try to put job applications from all sectors of the something back as part of everything we do.
This is demonstrated by the Employment diversity of the people recruited.
At the In the pursuit of delivering a sustainable One element of our executive development introductory level part of its career business, the Group continues to attract, programme includes a community project development programme, the Group develop and retain employees of the calibre aimed at improving the lives of some of has recruited over 80 graduates and 80 required to ensure the delivery of our those less fortunate than ourselves.
students to start their professional careers vision, which is to be the most highly with the Group.
It offers a comprehensive respected Group in the industry.
We Donations to charity and structured graduate scheme that remain committed to offering good During the year ended 30 June 2007, the includes technical and managerial training career opportunities for young people Group companies donated, directly and to recognised professional standards.
This in construction skills through innovative indirectly, 109,000 to a wide variety of helps to motivate people in the Group to apprenticeship and training programmes.
charities and other establishments right achieve their career goals, and to attract Several awards have been won in across the United Kingdom and overseas.
high levels of new recruits.
The Group consecutive years for initiatives based As in the past, we record direct Group cash continues to work with schools, colleges, upon recruiting youngsters from local donations annually see the directors universities and careers advisors to promote communities within which our work takes report on page 35, but within this report the construction industry as a career choice us to offer on-the-job training mentored by we are now monitoring all of our external and has over 150 people currently studying our own experts at project level.
From their sponsorship, including those sums raised by for technical qualifications on various induction both locally and corporately, individuals and teams in sporting activities.
training schemes having joined the Group new employees are encouraged to uphold This will be monitored in future against this as school leavers.
Kier also has over 160 our core values at the forefront of all our years benchmark figures.
craft apprentices in construction skills.
operations and to add value to our services Over 12% of our workforce is on new entry for clients, suppliers, subcontractors, training programmes, and this helps us shareholders and the communities in to maintain and improve the talent of our which we work.
This balanced approach will be further enhanced over the next year.
30 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued Kier Building Maintenance South has achieved a fantastic one million working hours without a reportable incident.
The company operates contracts in Greenwich, Ealing, east London and Brighton, with 230 employees.
The Group actively encourages all The Group works proactively to overcome Customers employees to achieve full professional industry challenges such as skills shortages Good customer care remains one of our membership in their relevant discipline.
through its work with schools, colleges fundamental principles and we constantly Our graduate scheme trains employees and universities.
We focus on customers monitor and report on customer satisfaction to full membership in over ten recognised by ensuring our workforce is fully levels.
The volume of repeat and negotiated professional institutions.
The Group is competent and able to deliver best practice business maintained by Group businesses established as an NVQ centre, and is for clients.
The continual investment in year-on-year demonstrates our high level of recognised by the Joint Awarding Body people at Kier is embedding a deep-rooted interaction with our customers and supply as a model of best practice for the delivery development culture to bring about our chain to ensure continuous improvement of NVQs in Construction Management.
to delivering quality, value and innovation We currently have over 70 professional and to their projects and businesses.
Where technical staff working towards construction Health & Safety appropriate we involve customers in our management NVQs.
Additionally, we are The Groups management strategy for conferences, workshops and project groups delivering specialist plant operators NVQs Safety, Health & Environmental issues is a as well as social functions in order to at our Greenburn open cast mining site.
significant area of focus for all members maintain trust and commitment for mutual Our technical training is based around the of the Group management teams, benefit.
In particular, our wide-ranging findings of various best practice groups and employees and supply chain members.
activities in providing, building, repairing helps to disseminate knowledge around Our management system is accredited and maintaining homes, both residential, the Group, and this professional level of to ISO 18001 standard and is externally affordable and social, see us working in competence adds value for our clients.
audited on a scheduled programme by BSI.
residents and tenants homes where the In the reporting period we have received highest standards of customer care are The Groups aim is to develop our staff accolades for our management system via required especially the need for into our future management as this delivers external safety awards throughout the considerate and sensitive consultation and long-term continuity and success for the Group operating companies.
Our management development approach to community relations wherever programmes have supported us in doubling The past year has seen a clear focus on we work helps to maintain and protect the the amount of promotions within the people issues, raising awareness within the reputation of our customers amongst their Group in the last three years.
workforce and supply chain of the areas neighbours and the public at large.
that cause injury and ill health.
One of the The Group has been running an executive biggest challenges to industry is tackling the leadership programme based around professional risk takers to re-educate them defined competencies that is giving into working safely.
Part of the Groups structured development to senior programme linked to the Dont Walk By management and directors.
This is linked message involves addressing behavioural to the Groups strategy of sharing best issues.
This process is being developed practice around the Group.
During over the next three years by our in-house 2006, the Group introduced a directors occupational psychologist and it is hoped development programme aimed at it will help to further enhance the safe supporting our business leaders.
working environment that we require on all of our projects.
In October 2006, the Group was awarded the Contract Journal Award for Training, We are an active MCG member and in with independent judges stating, conjunction with all MCG members the Kier Group was a clear winner continue to support and deliver the MCG due to the depth, scope and quality of health & safety strategy on both safety issues the training & development in Kier.
As part of our commitment to occupational health we have a qualified occupational health manager who is charged with developing our internal strategy that will link into industry and best practice delivery options at site level.
The awareness profile of occupational health issues is communicated to the supply chain using awareness packages that have been developed by the Group and other MCG members.
31 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
