12 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 People development Developing skills across Tony Williams Group Human different cultures Resources Director Staff engagement with Recruitment and training business strategy Kingfishers businesses in China and A key priority for the past year has been to Russia have different challenges to those ensure high levels of staff engagement in established markets, principally the within B&Q UK and Castorama France as recruitment and training of large numbers both businesses continue to implement of staff.
Last year alone B&Q China their action programmes.
At B&Q UK, opened 10 new stores, and hired a total of regular staff communication has been 2,500 new workers.
To keep pace with crucial, with frequent updates regarding growth B&Q China needs to recruit several B&Qs strategy and the roll-out of the store thousand new staff every year, including revamp programme with its improved 400 at management level, in an product, price and service promises.
Smart ideas through Tailored training has also been provided Last year, B&Q Chinas 10,000-plus to support key service initiatives such workforce received an average of 36 better staff engagement as the in-store Service Squads and the training hours per person.
B&Q China has employment of more staff with specialist developed a Fast Track Programme, Castorama staff website knowledge in key departments such as modelled on a similar scheme at B&Q UK, The launch of the Castorama France staff flooring and tiling.
These new initiatives in which high-potential managers can be website in September 2006 was intended to have led to B&Qs twice yearly staff developed and retained via a recognised involve its staff more in decision-making.
engagement surveys showing their best internal route to promotion.
Senior Using a secure internet site which can be results for over five years.
managers in the Groups Asian business accessed from their office, home or store At Castorama in France, the launch have also been able to attend specialist computer, staff can post ideas, PowerPoint in September of the new Castoramoa retail training courses run in partnership presentations, photos or video clips on to staff internet site was a landmark event with Monash University of Australia.
the site on a range of subjects.
This secure interactive site slogan My idea, your idea, our idea, the enables staff to become more involved Valuing diversity Castoramoa site aims to be a democratic in the decision-making process within the Kingfisher is a responsible employer, which communications tool which puts staff in business.
The first subject chosen for values diversity and actively promotes touch with each other and the management discussion was the new uniform for policies on gender, age, disability and race.
In the UK for example, B&Q is well-known The first subject chosen for discussion At Brico Dpt France a major staff for its age diversity policy.
Around a quarter was the choice of a new staff uniform.
information and training programme was of B&Qs employees are aged over 50, By the end of January, three-quarters of devised to support the introduction during balanced by over 22% of its workforce Castoramas 13,000 staff had used the site, the year of SAP technology into the store being under 24 years old.
Over 700 ideas and supply chain systems.
This involved for the uniform were contributed.
The 700 detailed workshops to ensure that winning design is pictured above.
SAP was adapted sufficiently to suit Brico Dpts needs prior to being rolled out.
Supported by a system of regional training managers from eight stores, SAP had been fully implemented in two-thirds of stores by the year-end, with completion planned for the first half of this year.
Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 13 Management development transfer of knowledge simpler, quicker, and more To identify the senior managers of tomorrow In a people business like retailing, the ability to cost-effective.
These programmes are in addition a Kingfisher Talent Group KTG has recently been attract, retain and develop the best people is vital.
to, and work in conjunction with, locally operated launched.
The 60 members of the KTG are the Kingfishers size and international spread provides programmes which focus mainly on local staff rising stars within the organisation which unique career and personal development engagement, recruitment and training.
Kingfisher aims to encourage and nurture in a opportunities in retailing for staff, as well as an structured way, including personal development excellent international talent pool for the business.
Group-wide programmes training, mentoring and project work outside their Turning these development opportunities The Kingfisher Executive Group KEG consists of home market.
into reality, whilst at the same time gaining local around 150 of the most senior managers across competitive advantage by sharing knowledge and Europe and Asia.
Members of the KEG share their talent around the Group is important to Kingfisher.
considerable knowledge and experiences by As a result, numerous Group-wide programmes participating in Group-wide initiatives, working have been developed to make the sharing and forums and internally published case studies.
Mariusz Gliwinski 36, President, Mariusz was appointed President of B&Q China in B&Q China autumn 2006 after three years as head of B&Q Taiwan, where he developed the business and Kingfisher is a very diverse organisation and maintained its position as market leader.
Previously offers managers tremendous opportunities he spent seven years at Nomi, a former Kingfisher to develop their careers in different markets.
business in Poland, including three years as It was a great experience working for B&Q General Manager.
Taiwan after two years running a Kingfisher These roles have enabled Mariusz to transfer business in Europe.
I learned how different the knowledge and skills gained in one market Asian customers are compared to those to another.
in Europe and how important services are in Asia.
Mdric Payne 32, Director of Merchandising, development of the new large-store format.
Mdric B&Q UK & Ireland used the experience gained from his previous role in the Group as Director of Merchandising at Its all about product and making our stores Castorama France where he was part of the team exciting for customers to come to and realise that developed the successful store revamp their home improvement projects.
Mdric was able to bring to B&Q UK in having a passion for retailing and seeing product display ideas in departments such as flooring customers being inspired when visiting and curtains which had already been successfully our stores.
Mdric joined Kingfisher in 1999 on the Groups fast-track management Since returning to B&Q UK as Director of Merchandising scheme, initially training in the B&Q Warehouse in April 2006, Mdric has played a key role in the stores before transferring to Castorama France.
Nataliya Bernadskaya 35, Castorama Russia Nataliya joined Castorama Russia from Castorama Poland at the beginning of 2006 to help provide I spent several years at Castorama Poland, operational experience as the Group prepared to which helped me gain a lot of retail open its first Russian stores.
Nataliya, who spent knowledge and skills and I wanted to use over seven years at Castorama Poland, helped in the this experience in a new retail market.
opening of the stores in Samara and St Petersburg My work at both Castorama Poland and and will move to the first Moscow store as deputy Castorama Russia helps me handle the store manager when it opens under the Castorama unusual problems that you can face in any banner this spring.
retail business and I find this part of my job very exciting.
