Ray Baker Director of Corporate Social Responsibility Going green made easy In March 2007, B&Q UK won the Retail Week award for Corporate Social Responsibility for its Energy Efficiency Made Easy campaign in autumn 2006.
The picture shows Jo Kenrick, B&Qs Marketing and Customer Proposition Director, receiving the award.
Raising awareness of certified timber in China B&Q China is working with Greenpeace to raise public awareness of the importance of sustainable wood products.
In-store leaflets explain to customers the benefits of certified wood and there are dedicated sales areas in stores to raise awareness of sustainable timber sourcing.
B&Q China has recently launched a better home service for customers wanting a more sustainable home.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 19 Corporate responsibility a sustainable business Kingfisher has a clear vision for Corporate Environmental performance summary operating companies will be produced in Responsibility CR to ensure that the Timber Kingfishers target is for 2007 08. long-term development of our business 75% of timber sold to be proven as well is sustainable and reflects the values and managed or recycled by 2010 11.
timber data collection tool has been Kingfisher recognises that global This section of the Annual Report is an developed to monitor progress.
Data for sustainability issues such as climate change overview of Kingfishers approach to CRand 2006 07 on timber certification will be and deforestation will require companies its progress on key issues.
A more detailed published in the CR Report.
to significantly change the way they do CR Report, which is independently assured business over the long-term.
As part of by URS Verification, is available on Kingfishers Climate change Energy efficiency this, Kingfisher is working with Forum for 2 website at www.
com cr and as a of stores was 220 Kwh m of commercial the Future to develop a sustainability printed summary.
floor space in 2006 07 and a five year strategy for the next decade.
As a result of progress made with CR target has been set to improve energy The biggest opportunity to contribute initiatives, Kingfisher is included in two of efficiency of stores by 10% by 2011 12 to a more sustainable use of limited the main socially responsible investment from 2006 07.
In addition, Kingfisher natural resources is to develop and SRI indices Dow Jones Sustainability is developing a climate change strategy promote home improvement products Index and the FTSE4Good.
It is also listed for 2007 08, including a greenhouse that enable Kingfishers customers to live as one of the Global 100 Most Sustainable gas reduction target.
There are already a Corporations in the World produced guidance to help operating number of initiatives underway to bring www.
org and included in the companies develop energy action plans.
greener choices to the consumer, UKs Top 100 Companies That Count A number of operating companies will including renewable energy products, compiled by Business in the Community set their own specific climate change timber from sustainable sources and www.
targets during 2007. lower environmental impact paints.
How we manage CR Chemicals Kingfisher plans to work Kingfishers Group Chief Executive has with its suppliers to substitute or eliminate overall responsibility for CR and under his chemicals which are considered to have direction the Executive Committee sets the potential health and safety issues.
As a CR strategy and reviews progress.
The first step, all operating companies are Chief Executive of each operating company required to have an action plan in place is responsible for policy implementation by 31 January 2008 to identify products within their respective businesses.
There is containing certain chemicals and work also a CR Steering Group which brings with suppliers to investigate opportunities together representatives from each for removal or substitution.
operating company to discuss progress and share best practice.
Social performance summary A key challenge has been to establish Store neighbourhoods Kingfisher consistent environmental and social seeks to make every store a good standards across Kingfishers diverse neighbour within the community it serves international operations, while taking into by contributing to local projects and account the different cultures and levels creating employment.
A new Charities of development within its operating Policy and Good Practice Guidance for companies.
In response, Kingfisher has developing commercial partnerships has developed an environmental and social been introduced.
See page 37 for data management system known as Steps to on charity contributions.
Castorama France has Responsible Growth.
partnered with the This sets out specific actions that all Factory working conditions conservation organisation operating companies must take to meet Kingfishers overseas sourcing offices WWF to promote lower impact products to policy commitments on 12 key social and audited 644 factories in 2006 07 to assess consumers.
It identifies three compliance with Kingfishers Code of timber certified to FSC levels of progress for each issue: Conduct for Factory Working Conditions.
standard, paint with the European Eco label and Minimum action A Group-wide factory assessment and energy efficient products.
Policy target audit process will be introduced in 2007 08 Over 1,700 products Leadership position for use by Kingfisher operating companies.
carry the Partners for the Planet logo.
All operating companies are required to Diversity Across the Group, women achieve the minimum action level on all accounted for 40% of total employees 12 issues by 31 January 2008 and the and 26% of managers in 2006 07. policy target level by 31 January 2011.
Guidance on diversity for Kingfishers Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening 20 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Operating review UK Ian Cheshire Chief Executive, B&Q The UK home improvement market greater proportion of customers home customers perception of service levels remained challenging in 2006 07, declining improvement spend.
and satisfaction is at a recent high.
further during the first half, before Trials deploying more staff in kitchen, stabilising over the summer and then Price competitiveness bathroom, flooring and power tool areas, starting to show signs of modest growth B&Q maintained its long-term Every Day where customers need more assistance towards the end of the year.
Across the full Low Pricing strategy for everyday and advice, were encouraging with one of year the market declined around 0.5%, products and also introduced targeted the original six pilot stores recently winning having fallen by 4% in the previous year.
promotions for less frequent purchases the Scottish Retail Excellence Award for B&Qs market share was broadly stable.
such as kitchens, bathrooms and customer service.
This initiative has now Market data from GfK for the major store home associated products.
been extended to 51 stores with more improvement operators planned for 2007 08.
New product ranges A B&Q-branded Handyman trial B&Q New product launches performed well, was launched in two London stores, B&Qs total reported sales were 3.9 billion, including updated ranges of kitchens, helping customers with small home down 1.7% 52 weeks and down 2.9% bathrooms, tiles, wooden floors and improvement jobs including fitting lights like-for-like LFL.
Total sales showed an heating.
The award-winning Energy and hanging doors.
Results have been improving trend as the year progressed, Efficiency Made Easy at B&Q campaign, encouraging and the trial will be extended declining 4.4% in the first half but growing aimed at helping customers reduce to a further 25 stores during the first 1.3% in the second half 26 weeks.
household carbon emissions, featured quarter of 2007 08.
Retail profit was 162.9 million wind turbines and solar panels, and the 2005 06: 208.5 million, reflecting the recent Water Efficiency Made Easy at Store development lower sales and a flat gross margin rate B&Q campaign includes underground An existing large store at Wednesbury compared with last year.
Retail profit water storage tanks, shower timers and in the West Midlands was extensively benefited from 6 million of one-off gains water butts.
Towards the end of the year revamped with more clearly defined shopin the fourth quarter 2 million government new financial service products were within-shop sections, roomset displays compensation for damage at a Northern launched including home, van and small and more space allocated to kitchens, Ireland store in 2005, and a net 4 million business insurance.
bathrooms, flooring and tiling areas.
incentive payment on transfer of financial In 2007 08 the programme of range Early results from this trial, and from two services business to a new provider.
change will accelerate and will include new stores in the same format, were Total costs grew 3% 52 weeks with premium paints and more contemporary encouraging and a further eight revamps underlying cost inflation of 3%, net new wallpaper, curtains and blinds as well were completed in the fourth quarter.
space growth of 2% and the additional as the introduction of new consumer and As previously indicated, each revamp costs for the normalisation of staff bonus trade credit products.
project is expected to require 2.5 million and store revamping, offset by cost savings.
capital expenditure, 0.5 million increased Customer service stock and an average net disruption and Development programme update Good progress was made on helping re-launch revenue cost of 1 million per Progress continued with the programme customers find products more quickly and store in the year of revamping.
The new launched last year to reduce B&Qs cost making available more specialist, trained format stores also deploy around 15% base and to develop the business for staff to assist customers undertaking more staff hours to improve service to the future.
Results from the original three improving customer service, introducing wholly dedicated to customer service, trial stores have exceeded expectations.
new product ranges and improving store equipped with radio communications Sales are outperforming comparable older environment were prioritised to ensure were in operation in the top 240 stores stores, driven primarily by higher average B&Q is the first and only store for a and independent research confirms that transaction values as customers spend Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening Inspiring customers Revamp programme gathers pace The programme to revamp B&Qs 115 larger stores gathered pace during the year with 11 stores now trading in the new format.
This format features more roomsets to showcase key projects such as kitchens and bathrooms, including this new Restful bathroom suite in main photo more shop-within-shop areas dedicated to product ranges such as paint, lighting and flooring, and improved service, with more specialists in key areas such as tiling.
A further 25 of the larger stores will be revamped this year.
22 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 UK continued more in the expanded kitchen, bathroom UK Trade and associated project areas.
B&Q Screwfix Direct total reported sales were continues to target an eventual 25% up 25.3% 52 weeks, supported by increase in large store sales densities the roll-out of trade counters, catalogue from the combined benefits of extensive expansion and new ranges of bathroom revamps, new product ranges and suites and power tools.
Retail profit improved service levels.
increased over 60%, driven by strong sales At the same time a further 29 medium growth and fulfilment efficiency gains.
store revamps formerly known as miniThe Screwfix trade counter Warehouse revamps were completed, programme, aimed at customers needing including 16 less extensive projects.
immediate availability, continued on track.
An additional 31 outlets opened during B&Q now has 115 large stores 11 in the year, taking the total to 38, with a the latest format and 209 medium stores similar number of openings planned for of which 117 have been modernised.
To support continued growth, Growth at Overall net space increased 2% during a second distribution centre is due to Screwfix Direct the year.
open in Stafford during summer 2007 08.
Screwfix Direct reported In 2007 08, 25 large store revamps The Trade Depot trial, which targets strong sales and profit growth, supported by the are planned with eight currently underway.
the general builder and specialist trade roll-out of trade counters, With 36 Supercentre revamps and customer, continued with two more catalogue expansion and relocations, two new medium stores branches opening during the year, taking new ranges.
and six large store downsizes also the total to four.
A further two new planned, B&Q expects to have 114 large branches are planned for 2007 08. stores 36 in the latest format and 209 medium stores of which 154 will have been modernised by the end of 2007 08.
Total space growth for 2007 08 is expected to be around 2%.
Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening Adding new product ranges A key focus for B&Q is to provide customers with exciting new product ranges which are updated more frequently.
New launches in the past year have included this Penrith kitchen main photo, as well as the Panama range of garden furniture from the premium Select range and the latest versions of the retro style Memphis barbeques, which were first launched in 2006.
This years Memphis barbeques come with built-in speakers and an MP3 connection.
