Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2007 The Laird Group PLC and its businesses the Group involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
During the year the Companys membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, was renewed.
Product Stewardship Laird designs and supplies innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics market, improving the quality of life for people who use them.
As a forward-thinking Group, Laird recognises the need to behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue  design and manufacturing practices, via various strategies including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity.
In 2007 Laird Technologies demonstrated its commitment to this philosophy through the development and implementation of a Restricted Substance Management Plan at all manufacturing locations to manage processes and procedures associated with the 2002 95 EC RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive and other customer-specific restricted substance product requirements.
As part of the plan the Company invested in in-house RoHS testing laboratories in Shenzhen and Kunshan, China, along with screening equipment in Tianjin, China and Cleveland, USA, to enable internally verified RoHS and restricted substance product compliance.
Laird Technologies Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper gaskets alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based copper alloys, and its EcoGreen fabric-over-foam gaskets offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness.
The Company also implemented lead-free SMT Surface Mount Technology operations during the year to meet the needs of the EU automotive sector and upgraded its chrome-coating processes.
Laird Technologies continued to be proactive in the field of product stewardship during the year, with the provision of halogen-free flame retardant coatings for its MaxAir ventilation panels and absorber EMI shielding products.
Business Ethics The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
The Group applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Human Rights The International Labour Organisation, a tripartite UN agency bringing together governments, employers and workers of its member states in common action to promote decent working conditions throughout the world, has identified eight Core Conventions as being fundamental to the rights of human beings at work.
These Core Conventions cover: commitment to freedom of association and collective bargaining, equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, the abolition of forced labour, the elimination of discrimination on grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin, and the abolition of child labour.
The Group has expressed its support for the International Labour Organisation eight Core Conventions and has stated its commitment to the principles within these conventions.
A copy of the Groups Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website.
Supply Chain management The Group is committed to ensuring that its supply base complies with the Electronic Industry code of Conduct EICC, and has therefore implemented these requirements into its business systems and continues to audit and work with its suppliers to ensure compliance.
The EICC, a code of best practice adopted and implemented by some of the worlds major electronics brands and their suppliers, sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility: Labour Health and Safety Environmental Management Systems Ethics Continuous Improvement The Group saw strong gains in its manufacturing processes, product quality and cost reductions through its Six Sigma CIP Continuous Improvement Process programme during 2007.
The combined Six Sigma and CIP approach has established a foundation for best practice across the Group for problem solving and since its inception in 2005 has delivered solid results year on year.
With a well established system and infrastructure in place, the Group will continue to expand and broaden the initiative across all of its facilities to support its strategies and strengthen its capabilities.
The Laird Group PLC 41 Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2007 Risk Management Until November 2007, responsibility for oversight of risk management, with particular emphasis on health, safety and environmental matters, rested with the Laird Risk Management Group, which was chaired by a Laird Group executive director and met three times during the year.
From November 2007, a revised structure was introduced to progress the development of risk management in the future.
Improvements in controls and operational risk management, including health, safety and environment initiatives, are driven by the Laird Technologies Risk Management Committee RMC, chaired by the Laird Technologies Chief Operations Officer.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and oversight at Group level rests with a revised Laird Risk Management Group RMG, to which the RMC reports.
The revised RMG is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
The RMC and RMG will each meet at least three times a year.
Environmental Policy and Management The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments.
Detailed policies are developed, implemented and regularly reviewed by Laird Technologies and its businesses to reflect their specific trading activities and the associated risks.
The Groups minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through comprehensive training.
2007 saw further progress in overall performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental management, driven by the continuation of the Groups ISO 14001-2004 OHSAS 18001-1999 integrated Health, Safety and Environmental management system accreditation programme: a joint standard to which seven additional Laird Technologies facilities achieved accreditation in 2007, bringing the total of continuing Group certified manufacturing sites to eleven.
A further six main facilities, including certain recent acquisitions, are on schedule to achieve Integrated System certification in 2008.
This is in addition to the majority of the Groups main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites.
The formalisation of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards promotes continuous improvement and allows consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
The continuing Groups performance in these areas showed improvement in 2007: due to the effect of acquisitions, the addition of new manufacturing capacity and the significant expansion of certain existing facilities during the year, an increase in energy consumption and the production of greenhouse gas emissions was recorded, however a major reduction in the level of waste to landfill was achieved.
CO emissions for the continuing Group increased by 11% to 65,451 total kilograms per 1m of Group sales 2 with energy consumption also up 11% to 175,328 total KwH per 1m of Group sales.
Waste to landfill was reduced 59% to 1,077 kilograms total waste to landfill per 1m of Group sales.
2007 Environmental achievements Laird Technologies St Louis, USA, maintained its 16-year history of zero environmental non-compliance issues.
An in-house waste water treatment facility at Laird Technologies Shenzhen, China plant increased waste water recycling by 25% vs. 2006: equating to a reduction in water usage of 52,800 gallons day.
A Laird Technologies facility in Kunshan, China achieved a 5.6% reduction in electricity and water usage vs. 2006 consumption and completed full air and noise emission inspections, whilst upgrading its control abatement equipment.
Laird Technologies Liberec, Czech Republic facility reduced its electricity consumption per CZK million sales by 25% and water consumption per CZK million sales by 27% vs. 2006.
The same facility increased its cardboard and paper recycling by 34% in the year.
An ISO 14001 programme of energy reduction reaped benefits at Laird Technologies Tianjin, China facility in 2007: electricity usage was reduced by 38% vs. the established baseline set when the system was implemented in 2004.
As part of the Groups Restricted Substance Management Plan Laird Technologies in Shenzhen, China, utilised its in-house RoHS testing facility to ensure product compliance and in avoiding the use of a third party laboratory, realised a cost saving of $150,000.
A copy of the Groups Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Far Left: The RoHS lab established for in-house product compliance testing at Laird Technologies Shenzhen, China Left: The in-house water treatment facility at Laird Technologies Shenzhen, China, which increased waste water recycling at the plant by 25% in 2007 42 The Laird Group PLC Health and Safety The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all recently acquired Group businesses and update audits were conducted at all other major Group facilities.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMC.
Health, safety and environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on the perceived risk within each business.
2007 Health and Safety achievements Laird Technologies facility in St Louis, USA, reduced minor workplace accident rates by 43% in 2007 vs. 2006, and reportable accident rates by 67%, on working hours up 17%.
Laird Technologies Hungary facility reduced total workplace accident rates by 77% from 2.1 100 employees in 2006 to 0.5 100 employees in 2007, despite a doubling of total hours worked.
Laird Technologies Cleveland, USA, reduced minor workplace accident rates by 10% and reportable accidents rates by 45% in 2007 vs. 2006, despite a 32% year on year increase in total hours worked.
Worldwide employee headcount for the Groups continuing operations increased from c. 9,000 at the end of 2006, to c. 14,500 at the end of 2007, resulting in a 54% increase in the total number of hours worked.
The Group records near misses, minor and reportable accidents, based on a uniform reporting standard, at all facilities along with total hours worked which together provides an aggregate annualised minor reportable accident rate per 100 employees.
In 2007, total reportable accident rates decreased 33% to 0.4 100 employees vs. 0.6 100 employees in 2006.
Minor accident rates remained virtually the same as 2006 levels at 0.8 100 employees.
This is viewed as a positive trend given the Groups high growth rate with respect to workforce and total number of hours worked.
TOTAL EMPLOYEE REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS HEADCOUNT PER 100 EMPLOYEES 16,000 0.8 12,000 0.6 8,000 0.4 4,000 0.2 0 0 Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year the Group gave 35,000 to national and local charities 2006, 15,000.
The Group supported a number of large UK charities including The Stroke Association, MacMillan Cancer Relief, CLIC Sargent and Princes Trust.
Group businesses, many of which are long-established in their communities, supported a variety of local initiatives.
2007 Charitable and Community initiatives Employee participation in an Open Day held to raise funds at a Salvation Army childrens home in Penang, Malaysia, and monetary donations to a local government scheme providing support for under-privileged families over the winter in Shanghai, China.
In Schaumburg, USA, employees donated food and holiday gifts to disadvantaged families as part of a Township Community out-reach Adopt a Family programme and also took part in a food drive to benefit the Township.
The Laird Group Head Office continued its commitment to the charity Guide Dogs for the Blind through the sponsorship of another trainee Guide Dog, Cassie, in 2007.
The Laird Group PLC 43 2006 2007 2006 2007 Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2007 Participation in a raffle to raise funds for supplies and field trips for under-privileged school children in Reynosa, Mexico, along with employee donations of funds and gifts to a local orphanage.
Sponsorship of a childrens football team in the UK via donations toward kit and equipment.
Endowment donation to the Department of Engineering at Missouri University, USA.
Donation of funds to non-profit organisation, Harz-Weser-Workshops, in Germany, which aims to integrate adults with mental and physical disabilities into working life through the provision of gainful workshop employment and support and rehabilitation services.
Donation of funds to the Little Bit Foundation in St Louis, USA which supplies coats and outerwear to the homeless and low-income attendees at a local out-reach centre and to students at eleven inner-city schools.
In December The Laird Group PLC Head Office sent electronic Seasonal Greeting cards and donated the money that would have been spent on traditional cards and their postage to SOS Childrens Villages, an international organisation that looks after children around the world who have lost their parents through war, famine, disease or poverty.
Far Left: Mr Chen Choon See, Finance Manager of LT Penang right presents a cheque from Laird Technologies to Major Francis Ng, Chairman of the Salvation Army Penang Childrens Home Left: Mr Beng Ee Ang, General Manager and Ms Bee Lin Khoo of Laird Technologies Penang serve customers from the company food stall at the Open Day for the Salvation Army Childrens Home in Penang, Malaysia 44 The Laird Group PLC
