Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report Our approach to Corporate What does Corporate responsibility responsibility mean In 2007 we reviewed our approach to CR to ensure we to Logica?
were concentrating on those things that really matter Acting responsibly as a business is not to our key stakeholders.
We are creating a common CR an optional extra.
It is the starting point framework across the Group and identifying the right for everything we do.
CR priorities for our organisation.
Our initial CR objectives include: We deliver IT and business services that bring real having a motivated, engaged, high calibre workforce benefits.
Many of our innovative services and solutions make a positive contribution to people and the having a strong reputation in corporate citizenship environment.
We help emergency services to respond that marks us as a partner of choice for customers faster: we improve road, rail and air traffic control and suppliers.
systems: and we develop emissions management To achieve these objectives we are focusing on three and trading systems.
priority areas: We also recognise that our activities may have some negative consequences.
Increasingly, our respecting the environment key stakeholders shareholders, customers, our making a positive difference to the community people and our partners expect us to operate our business in a way that is economically, socially making Logica a great place to work.
Meeting those A Group-wide committee, chaired by Chief Marketing expectations helps us to function successfully as a Officer, Nick Caplan, on behalf of the Executive business, better able to attract high calibre people, Committee, coordinates CR activities throughout the retain key contracts and take on new challenges.
organisation and measures our progress.
This is the context for the review of our Corporate Responsibility CR policies and practices undertaken Priority 1: Respect for the Environment in 2007.
Its findings and conclusions are summarised below.
Our objective We are now delivering detailed programmes in We aim to operate an environmentally sustainable the light of these findings.
I welcome this, not least business.
We seek to minimise energy use and carbon because I strongly believe that responsible companies emissions.
are simply better at attracting and retaining the best In our own operations, we are improving our ability people, winning new business and successfully to measure our direct and indirect impact on the growing their businesses.
I look forward to providing environment.
In 2007 total Group carbon emissions you with an update on our progress in next years were approximately 108,700 tonnes of carbon dioxide Annual report.
1 equivalent t CO e. We have identified our key 1 Estimate.
Data extrapolated 2 from locations totalling environmental contributors as being: around 70% of operations by employee numbers Energy use from across the Group.
These have been converted to office equipment and lighting carbon emissions using emissions factors in line with building heating and cooling the methods detailed by the Andy Green Carbon Disclosure Project data centre equipment Chief Executive Officer www.
net Waste consumption llo og giic ca a.. c co om m C CR R This is an excerpt of our full as generated from normal office activities CR policy report, which can be found on our website at from IT and office equipment upgrades www.
com CR from catering facilities on site from amenities Business travel and deliveries Refrigerant and coolant gases 78 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Our approach How we will measure success: Respect for the Environment Logicas environmental management capabilities help other businesses to reduce their carbon emissions, but Key objective Current status Key initiatives Priorities for 2008 we need to do more to enhance the sustainability of underway our own operations.
Ensure Group Around 70% of UK pilot of an endRoll-out carbon and A Group-wide environment steering group was measurement our staff work in to-end carbon and energy management established in 2007.
It has developed a common capability of countries where we energy management in key territories framework and set of objectives based on the three Rs: emissions total measure our CO system planned Define Group CO 2 2 reduce, re-use and recycle.
Early priorities include: emissions and emissions Programme emissions reduction per capita Average of 2.9 underway to targets for 2009 Reduce tonnes of CO instil emissions 2 using targeted communications to encourage emissions per capita measurement in reduced energy use at work and at home every territory Improve 81% of UK Employee Implement Groupensuring that unused facilities are powered down environmental employees are environmental wide environmental outside working hours awareness aware of the awareness awareness encouraging conferencing technology, thereby amongst Stamp down your programmes in the programme reducing business travel employees carbon footprint UK, France, India Measure awareness programme staff and Sweden of environmental upgrading office equipment to fewer and more survey Work underway to programme in 2008 energy-efficient devices introduce similar via staff survey printing initiatives, including double-sided printing as programmes in standard, reduced toner use and follow-me printing other key territories Increase recycling 48% of our staff Ensure Group-wide Promote recycling switching to more sustainable sources of electricity activities and work in countries compliance with programmes across Re-use decrease paper where we have WEEE directive the Group consumption active recycling replacing, where possible, disposable items with programmes re-useable items: for example, plates and cutlery in staff restaurants repurposing legacy office equipment and IT assets Priority 2: Making a positive difference to sharing servers and processing capacity in data the community centres Recycle Our objective As an organisation that employs 39,000 people in improving recycling facilities 36 countries, Logica believes that being active in the wider community is essential to our CR programme.
We also recognise that many professional people seek Stamp down your carbon employers with an active social policy.
footprint campaign Our approach Given Logicas role in the knowledge economy, we In 2006, we initiated an environmental focus on educational programmes, particularly those campaign, Stamp down our Carbon Footprint targeted at young people.
We support projects that in our UK business, which followed the three Rs actively involve our employees and, where possible, as set out above.
We intensified our activity in make use of their expertise.
We also encourage our 2007 with good results.
employees to raise money for causes that support our The programme reduced carbon emissions community policy.
2 by 10%, avoided 14,800 tonnes of CO by In 2007 we established a Group-wide community 2 Based on latest updated 2 DEFRA emission factors and switching to greener electricity suppliers steering committee.
We have agreed to loosely align guidelines www.
uk and saved 1,630 tonnes of CO by turning our community programmes around the principles set 2 environment business envrp off unused equipment.
Teleconferencing out in our pilot project, the Bloom programme.
pdf rose by more than 50% and business travel fell substantially.
Paper usage was down by 12% and printing-related energy consumption was cut by 11%.
79 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate responsibility report The Bloom programme is a Dutch community initiative How we will measure success: Making a positive difference to the community which began in 2005.
Our people use their technical knowledge to educate underprivileged people and train Key objective Current status Key initiatives Priorities for 2008 non-governmental organisations NGOs, both locally underway and in developing countries.
They have delivered Develop a Community Roll out Bloom Align our computer infrastructure to educational foundations and comprehensive steering group is programme community taught computer skills to disadvantaged children.
Group-wide evaluating activities concept in the activities across the The work we are doing with Planete Urgence shows approach to across the Group key participating Group to ensure how Bloom programme principles can be applied in making a positive and identifying countries they support the other territories.
Logica employees have supported contribution to the Group community Group objectives a variety of community projects: bringing IT training community objective to Benin and implementing accounting systems in Build employee Awareness and Group programme Ensure effective Cameroon.
awareness and engagement varies is being developed communications engagement across geographies to launch a number to promote local In the UK Logicas Prompt Payment Scheme has so far raised over 135,000 for two major childrens among our of community initiatives across charities, the National Society for the Prevention of stakeholders programmes the Group.
Cruelty to Children NSPCC and Children First.
Effective Measurement Country teams Establish The scheme which was established in 2006, involves measurement of criteria established to develop local country specific a proportion of the receipts received from all our clients our contribution in the Netherlands community measurement who signed up to our prompt payment plan being to the community rollout plans as criteria for donated to these charities.
appropriate community contribution Priority 3: Making Logica a great place to work Attracting, developing and retaining the best people Our objective If we are to succeed as a Group we need to provide We recognise that the quality of our services depends employees with the right tools and support to perform on the expertise and dedication of our employees and their roles to the best of their ability.
we want to attract talented and ambitious people who The Logica global career framework Pathways and can grow our business.
We want Logica to be a great our Performance Management System PMS provide place to work.
a solid structure for individual career progression.
The Logica University was launched at the end of Our approach 2006 as the umbrella for our employee development We are committed to: programme.
We are nurturing the senior managers of the future through Leadership Development 1 Attracting, developing and retaining the best people programmes at Group and country level.
2 Engaging and communicating with our people Key statistics 3 Creating a supportive working environment Total number of employees over 5 year period: In early 2008 we consulted widely among our employees to identify common values which support 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 3 our new Logica brand.
The resulting values 19,749 19,695 21,340 40,483 38,740 3 Reduced headcount in 2007 as a result of disposals of committed, innovative and open reflect our strengths Telecoms Products and Caran as a business today and our aspirations for how we Overall employee retention: 84% want to be in the future.
unchanged from previous year llo og giic ca a.. c co om m v va allu ue es s To learn more about our values please visit our website at: www.
com values 80 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Engaging and communicating with our people Creating a supportive working environment Logica promotes an interactive, informative and A supportive workplace is an important part of creating constructive approach to employee communications.
a high-performance organisation and we aim to We value, encourage and react to employee feedback.
help our employees balance their work, family and We keep employees informed through a range of community responsibilities.
channels, from a CEO blog to Group-wide and It is Logicas policy that everyone should have an country-specific magazines and newsletters.
equal opportunity for employment and advancement Each year we run a global online employee on the basis of ability, necessary qualifications and satisfaction survey in multiple languages to gather fitness for work.
We support and respect the protection feedback and identify areas of improvement.
The of internationally proclaimed human rights.
Board and Executive Committee review the results In early 2008 we signed up to the UN Global and local action plans are drawn up in response.
Compact, which formally aligns the business with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption.
The Pulse Programme The Pulse Programme was launched in France How we will measure success: Making Logica a great place to work in 2007 to speed up the integration of Logica and Unilog.
Its aim was to engage all French Key objective Current status Key initiatives Priorities for 2008 employees in our vision to be an international underway player, a key partner for our clients, and the Build employee Employee brand Employee brand Employee brand best employer in the industry.
In 2007 Logica in confidence and measures in 2007 project underway targets for 2008 France came fifth in an industry Great Place to engagement in staff survey: to embed the new staff survey: Work survey in the Journal du Net magazine.
the new Logica 68% work by the Logica values into 75% work by the brand Company values the organisation Company values 32% believe we are 40% believe we are a better employer a better employer 34% believe we 45% believe we Employee engagement work successfully work successfully as a global as a global Company Company Increase overall 70% responded to Improving internal Increase survey staff satisfaction staff satisfaction communications, response rate survey 64% in including CEO to 75% 2006 blog and mailbox, Raise mean 7 0 % Mean satisfaction corporate satisfaction score Staff survey response rate score: 3.44 3.33 in newsletters and to 3.55 4 2006: 64% 2006 employee video Improve 2008 messages retention rate Employee satisfaction Strengthening by 2% engagement with leadership team through more effective communications, such as the 3.44 monthly CEO call Overall staff satisfaction Group mean and Knowledge score out of 5 for a basket of 9 questions Forums 2006: 3.33 Improve 46% are satisfied Roll-out of Logica Increase employee satisfaction with with training and University satisfaction with learning and development Increasing support training and development opportunities for leadership development opportunities development to 55% 4 Excluding Finland, Poland Reduce Group- 16% Group attrition Reviewing incentive Reduce Groupand Estonia which did not wide voluntary 16% in 2006 schemes to ensure wide voluntary participate in the 2007 staff attrition these remain attrition by 2% survey competitive 81 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 4 8 82 2
