40 Safety and Sustainability Committee Report Role of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The Safety and Sustainability Committee has been a formal committee of the Board since November 2006 and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Prior to that date, it was a management committee attended by certain nonexecutive Directors but, in view of the importance of the subject matter, a more structured approach was felt to be warranted.
Its terms of reference were most recently reviewed by the Board in July 2007 and are available on the Companys website under Our business Executive Management.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit and Risk Committee, on safety, health, environment and community SHEC and matters relating to corporate social responsibility CSR, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and management of these issues within the Company: To assess the effectiveness of managements attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing SHEC related risk: To review significant SHEC incidents and performance indicators: and To report to the Board on developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on SHEC matters which may be relevant to the Companys operations, its assets or employees.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any matter within its terms of reference, seek any relevant information that it requires from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources it may require to undertake its duties.
The Committee is also authorised to obtain independent legal or other professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In line with the other Committees of the Board, the Safety and Sustainability Committee does not have any executive power and the Directors and operational managers retain their full responsibility and accountability for the management of SHEC and CSR matters in the Company.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committees chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any material matters which arose from the Committees work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report.
More detailed information concerning the Companys SHEC and CSR related activities are available on the Companys website and will also be available in the Companys 2007 Sustainable Development Report which is due to be published in early 2008.
The Committee assessed its effectiveness at the November 2007 meeting.
To do this, a tailor-made questionnaire was circulated to the Committee and those senior managers who regularly attended meetings of the Committee.
The Committee and the Board concluded that there were no matters arising which necessitated change.
Composition of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The terms of reference for this Committee require a minimum of two independent non-executive Directors, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the Committee, and one executive Director.
The Board may, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, appoint or remove members of the Committee, subject to there being at least three members at all times.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, certain senior executives attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: Sivi Gounden: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee and its Chairman since November 2006.
Dr Gounden is an engineer by formal training and is CEO of a company with significant experience of the mining industry globally, and in South Africa in particular.
Michael Hartnall: an independent Director, who has been a member of the Committee since its inception in September 2004 and was Chairman of the Committee until November 2006.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director who has been a member of the Committee since January 2007.
David Munro: an independent Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Safety and Sustainability Committee on 21 September 2007.
Mr Munro is a mining engineer with significant experience of the mining sector, both internationally and in South Africa.
Brad Mills: an executive Director and Chief Executive of the Company who has been a member of the Committee since its inception in September 2004.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37 of the Annual Review which accompanies this document.
Each of the non-executive Directors on this Committee receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a member or, in the case of the Chairman, 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 21 of this document.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
Members are also offered opportunities to visit the operations and community projects with which the Company is involved.
2007 Annual Report Lonmin Plc Safety and Sustainability Committee Report 41 Activities of the Safety and Sustainability Committee The Committee usually meets four times a year and reports its material findings to the next Board meeting.
The principal business of these meetings was: November: review of safety statistics and trend analysis, community review of results of community survey, review of the effectiveness of the internal controls environment, environment factors affecting exploration projects in Gabon : March South Africa : review of safety statistics and trend analysis, community budget for social labour plans, environment review of auditable exploration site closure plan : July: review of safety statistics and trend analysis, community review of progress of various local community projects and proposed expenditure, environment review of regulatory and legal compliance and impact on communities : September usually in South Africa but in UK this year : review of safety statistics and trend analysis, review of the terms of reference of the Committee, review of external audit proposal in relation to the 2007 Sustainable Development Report.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: Reviews of Incident Cause Analysis Methodology i. e. review of factors contributing to serious incidents and the corrective and preventative measures that are taken to prevent recurrence : and Review of the Companys Sustainability Strategy.
The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of Directors during time in office meetings attended 1 Karen fide Segundo 33 Michael Hartnall 44 2 Sivi Gounden 3 3 3 Brad Mills 44 4 David Munro Nil Nil Senior Executives 5 VP Business Development 21 VP Exploration & Business Development 4 3 VP Risk & Treasury 4 4 6 VP SHEC and Security 22 7 VP Sustainability 2 2 1 Joined 24 January 2007.
3 Ceased to be Chairman 10 November 2006.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 November 2007.
Karen fide Segundo Acting Committee Chairman
