20 Corporate Social Responsibility Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility The Group believes that by working closely with the drinks manufacturers and suppliers, other The Group places all its stakeholders in minimising the impact of its sellers of alcohol such as supermarkets and offactivities on the communities in which it licences, Government agencies, relevant support considerable emphasis on operates and by helping to protect that agencies and the consumers of alcohol developing, maintaining and environment, it will not only satisfy the demands themselves.
of modern corporate life, but will also improve monitoring policies and To promote responsible drinking and to lessen its own business methods and deliver the highest the impact of any antisocial behaviour on the processes designed to levels of corporate governance.
The Group has communities in which it operates, the Group has the most experienced operational management implemented the following initiatives: protect the well-being and in the leisure sector, who are dedicated to the I any nominated driver in a group of three or safety and welfare of their staff and customers.
welfare of customers and more customers receives complimentary soft employees.
drinks: RESPONSIBLE RETAILING The sector within which the Group operates has I removing irresponsible promotions and all been at the forefront of national publicity relating you can drink offers: to binge or antisocial drinking and resultant I establishing an internal minimum price for the behavioural issues.
In preparation for the sale of an alcoholic drink: implementation of the Licensing Act 2003 in 2005, the Group produced a five point plan I each venue tariff board being reviewed and identifying those factors it felt were key to certain soft drinks prices being reduced: contributing to reducing antisocial drinking, safer I free drinking water: venues and safer town and city centres.
This plan was forwarded to every local authority and I the availability of hot food and drinks, corresponding police force in the areas in which particularly during evening trading: the Group operates.
The plan outlined dispersal I requiring unit managers to become active policies, minimum pricing conditions, capacity members of any local Pubwatch schemes: conditions, risk assessment, dancing provision and policies for managing the cumulative effect I signage reminding customers of the stringent of licensed venues in the affected towns.
In many security measures in place and requesting cases, the strategies outlined in these plans are them to leave the area quietly: and now part of the Groups commitment to the I security measures to allow incidents of towns and cities where its venues are located antisocial behaviour to be recorded and and embedded in its operational licences.
passed to the police, as appropriate.
In conjunction with Bars Entertaining Dancing The Group employs several other initiatives to Association BEDA, the representative body of ensure the safety of its customers and to the late night industry, we have lobbied the mitigate the impact of its business on the Government in relation to minimum pricing of communities in which it operates.
Dispersal alcoholic drinks in all outlets licensed for the sale policies developed in conjunction with local of alcohol, including retail outlets such as police forces, relevant authorities and neighbours supermarkets.
Various local authorities and police are a very effective way of minimising the authorities have supported this proposition but primary risks associated with late night with little encouragement from the Government entertainment.
These policies include the or other leisure industry organisations.
We will provision of street marshals, DJ announcements continue to lobby the Government for a encouraging gradual dispersal, strict adherence to consistent and proportionate response to the licensing conditions, litter patrols, assistance with issues arising from the sale of alcohol generally.
obtaining taxis for single women and the We welcome initiatives to enhance the graduated reduction of noise levels in the venue.
experience of all users of busy town and city POLYCARBONATES centres and actively participate in this by the use The Group has recently taken the decision to of CCTV and regular liaison with police and move from serving drinks in glasses to council officials.
We are fully supportive of the polycarbonate plastic.
The Group already benefits Governments Alcohol Harm Reduction from having only polycarbonate glasses in some of Strategy and all other initiatives that encourage its existing units, such as Oceana in Kingston upon safe and sensible drinking.
Thames, and considers it viable and necessary to We believe that the issue of alcohol abuse needs extend this to the entire estate.
The Group to be considered in a broader context, which considers that there are safety benefits of doing includes all those involved in the leisure sector, this for customers and employees.
Luminar plc 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report 2007 UNDERAGE DRINKING An independent company is also employed to I approximately 80% of the waste produced by Underage drinking remains a problem that all make unscheduled visits across the estate and the Group is glass and progress has been licensed premises face on a regular basis.
In a bid trained dogs are used to search for drugs.
The made in diverting substantial amounts of this to exclude underage drinkers from its premises, Group ensures that all staff are fully trained in glass away from landfill: the Group operates various schemes.
The recognising drug use and dealing with those I all cooking oils used in food operations are national Challenge 21 scheme is adopted across suffering from the effects of drug misuse.
Many recycled and procedures are in place to increase the estate, challenging customers to prove their of the Groups larger venues have trained the amount of card and paper recycling: age if they appear under 21.
I the Group carefully monitors energy usage presented as proof of age appears to have been SMOKING and employs initiatives such as water meters tampered with, the ID is confiscated and the The Group believes its customers should have and renewable energy sources to ensure police are called, often issuing 80 on-the-spot the right to decide whether or not they smoke responsible consumption: fines.
The Group takes its responsibilities in this but does not believe others should be affected by area very seriously and offers the opportunity for I to improve fuel consumption levels and those deciding to do so.
All refurbished or newly young adults, over the age of 13 and under 18, reduce CO emissions, the Group has developed venues in the Groups estate 2 to experience dancing and entertainment in its introduced an all diesel policy for all company incorporate external smoking areas and the venues in a strictly controlled environment with cars: and Group was therefore well placed to deal with the no alcoholic drinks available.
recent smoking ban introduced in Scotland in I where possible, the use of public transport, HEALTH AND SAFETY March 2006.
In preparation for the smoking ban telephones, video conferencing and homeHealth and safety standards are maintained and being introduced to England in 2007, the Group working are encouraged in an effort to reduce promoted through an active in-house team who is, where possible, developing external smoking the number of miles travelled.
regularly carry out health and safety audits and areas within its venues.
The Group will not CHARITY review and develop policies and procedures to develop or refurbish new premises without a The Group remains committed to the ECHO ensure the Group meets all relevant safety smoking area.
Where it is not possible to Trust, a childrens charity founded by the Group regulation requirements and positions itself accommodate smokers inside a venue, alternative in 2002, the work of which is referred to in the proactively for changes to the regulatory initiatives will be introduced such as the smoking Report of the Directors.
The Trust ensures the environment.
Staff receive specifically designed wristband system currently in use in Scotland, availability of cash for good causes across the training courses in relation to food safety, noise, allowing customers exit and re-entry into units.
country and within the communities in which it first aid and the responsible sale of alcohol To improve the working environment, the operates.
During the year, a total of 173,575 among others.
General housekeeping standards Group follows best practice guidelines from the 2006: 363,989 was donated to the Trust by have improved since the introduction of the Lite Government and ensures its premises meet all our customers and staff as a result of charity Patrol Scanner System.
This reporting system statutory guidelines in relation to the standard of collections and Group-organised events.
monitors and highlights risks within each unit airflow and air extraction in its premises.
The Examples of awards made during the year e. g. a spillage or broken glass and prompts Group ensures that its premises possess air include a payment of 14,735 to purchase a appropriate and timely remedial action to be circulation and handling equipment to the Cardiac Monitor for the Oxford Radcliffe taken by relevant unit personnel.
prevailing standards at the time of their Childrens Hospital and 15,000 made to the Search policies also operate in all of the Groups installation.
All new and refurbished premises Tiny Lives Campaign.
This payment was the venues, with door supervisors carrying out comply with CIBSE design guidelines, BSI British fourth and final instalment and was made to random searches of customers and their Standard 5720 and technical standards for places enable them to refurbish and modernise the belongings to prevent weapons being taken of entertainment published by the District High Dependency Room in the new Neonatal inside the venues.
In addition, the Group has Intensive Care Unit at the Southmead Hospital entered into an exclusive arrangement with a in Bristol.
The total provided by the Group in DRUG AWARENESS supplier to install scenting machines in its venues.
support of this cause came to 60,000.
Recent press coverage has highlighted the This will create a more desirable aroma for its dangers of drink spiking and misuse of drugs customers and employees.
remains an issue in the late night sector.
The Group has long-standing policies for mitigating ENVIRONMENTAL the risks of this difficult issue.
A zero tolerance The Groups environmental strategy is designed policy is in place in all of the Groups venues and to minimise the impact of its business on the any person found to be using or handling drugs communities in which it operates and it is will have those drugs confiscated and be committed to growing its business in an reported to the police.
All of the Groups venues environmentally friendly manner.
The Group is benefit from extensive CCTV systems, with door committed to minimising any adverse effects the supervisors carrying out regular checks of all Groups activities have on the environment and, 173,575 raised during areas, including public toilets.
Comprehensive by establishing frameworks by which these search policies are employed in all units and impacts can be identified and measured, it hopes the year.
management actively promote the sale of to manage and reduce any impact.
Examples of spikeys within their venues a device the measures it takes to protect and enhance specifically designed to prevent drink tampering.
