18 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 WASTE We are trialling Closed Loop Recycling in five of our Caf Revive coffee shops in London.
Teams sort used caf product packaging into recyclable and non-recyclable materials in store.
The recyclable material is collected and turned back into raw materials for use in more packaging.
HEALTH FAIR PARTNER As part of our additive reduction The M&S Milk Pledge, which we programme, none of our products launched with our dairy farmers contain hydrogenated fats.
All of our in 2003, agrees prices for six Nutritionally Balanced ready meals are month periods and pays one based on Government guidelines for of the best rates in the industry.
calorie, fat, salt and sugar content It also supports our regional and, like our Marks & Spencer Cook!
sourcing work, with milk products and Eat Well childrens sold in the region in which prepared meals, they are free from it is produced.
artificial colours, flavourings, sweeteners and preservatives.
our Nutritionally Balanced meals are based on Government seeing superb growth.
Last year we enjoyed 12% of the UK guidelines for calorie, fat, salt and sugar content.
champagne market, 22% of the pre-packed shellfish market, and 10% of the boxed chocolate market.
We have also adopted what we think is a leading position in food labelling.
Starting with selected ranges we are combining Our indulgent food remains distinctive and is often unique.
both the Governments traffic light system and Guideline Daily At Easter, for instance, all our childrens chocolate was organic Amount GDA percentages to help our customers make healthy and nut-free.
We are now working towards making sure all our choices about the amount of fat, sugar and salt they eat.
This will childrens cakes are made using only naturally-occurring colours be extended to all relevant ranges by end of the 2007 08 and flavours.
Increasingly, these products are helping us stand financial year.
out at key times like Christmas and Easter.
Our Eat Well sunflower logo identifies food which is either Authenticity and provenance naturally healthy or nutritionally balanced, as endorsed by the Our customers want exciting new dishes, but they are also British Nutrition Foundation.
Some 1,300 food products as of increasingly interested in real food, simply prepared, from January 2007, or around 30% of our food sales, come under known sources.
Our target, under Plan A, is to make that M&S has always been known for the provenance of its food 50% in five years.
and the Speciality range, launched in April 2006, taps into Our organic food offer now stretches to 350 lines.
Carefully selected foods, many from smaller we aim to triple our sales of organic food within five years.
specialist producers in the UK and overseas, are what this Prepared meals made with organic ingredients have become range is all about.
more popular and, in February, we launched Organic Food to Already over 300 products strong and accounting for a Go, with over 20 products from sandwiches to smoothies.
significant proportion of food sales, the range includes Indulgence and celebrations Brecknock lamb from Wales, Scottish langoustines from While healthy eating is increasingly important to customers, fisherman Sandy West and Giuliano Baronis exclusive 24- we have to remember that many people come to M&S for month matured parmigiano reggiano.
We will increase this a treat.
Some of the products we are most famous for are range to 400 products next year.
Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 19 FAIR PARTNER SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS We now have over 70 Fairtrade In February 2007, we launched our first certified food products on our organic fruit and vegetable box.
During 2006 07, we Available in two sizes and presented in launched Fairtrade wine: a 100% recycled cardboard box, each expanded our range of fresh comes with information on the origin of Fairtrade produce to include the products, shelf life and details on whole and prepared pineapples the environmental benefits of organic as well as grapes: and in February produce.
The boxes also allow us to we converted all of our conserves offer a wider range of produce to and jams to Fairtrade.
And we are customers in our smaller stores.
still the only major retailer to sell only Fairtrade tea and coffee.
AWARDS In 2006, we won a number of awards for our excellence in food.
We are particularly proud of the awards we have won for our fish.
Greenpeace, the Marine Conservation Society, the Seafood Choices Alliance and Fish Farmer Magazine have all recognised our commitment to sustainable fish sourcing.
New stores and food hospitality beverage offer to eat-in or take-away.
It targets customers who We see scope for growth in our food business by opening food want to enjoy lunch, brunch or supper in a more sophisticated halls in new main chain stores and new Simply Food stores, setting.
which you can read about on page 23.
But expanding space Trust is not the only way to grow.
The eating-out market is worth Trust is one of the cornerstones of our business and our around 28.4bn source: TNS Outlet tracker we think we can customers expect us to take the lead on ethical trading and the take a bigger share of this market.
We are concentrating on five environment.
Through Plan A we will continue to improve our different formats.
Caf Revive, with 217 in-store cafs and around 40 more One of the big issues we are tackling is packaging.
We currently planned this year, is the third largest UK chain of coffee shops.
use around 79,000 tonnes of food packaging annually.
Of this, In 2007 08, we will introduce a stronger food offer, including about 25,000 tonnes is glass, mainly wine bottles, for which more choice for children, and more bakery and hot food.
Hot recycling schemes already exist.
We are committed to reducing Food To Go counters have been successfully trialled in 15 non-glass packaging by 25% by 2012 this applies to all our stores and will go to a further 21 stores this year, leading to an packaging, not just food.
eventual roll-out further down the chain.
To reach this target we will unpack some less fragile produce, Our four Deli Bars provide a sophisticated place to relax over remove unnecessary layers, replace cardboard sleeves freshly prepared dishes with a glass of wine or fruit juice.
with labels and make packaging lighter.
We will also make Another four will open this year.
M&S Restaurant in Newcastle packaging from sustainable or recycled sources and clearly is our first in-store restaurant, with 130 covers, table service label it recyclable or compostable.
We have already labelled and classic M&S dishes made to order.
Its one of the best some 12% of our food products with this information.
examples of how we are reaching new customers and four more are planned this year.
As we grow our food business we expect trust to be increasingly important to our customers.
Independent research M&S Kitchen, currently a one-store pilot attached to our shows we are one of the UKs most trusted retailers, but to Canterbury store, has a strong hot and cold food and alcoholic maintain this position we must continue to tackle the big issues.
