Corporate Social Responsibility Marshalls believes in conducting its business in a The Market Place manner which achieves sustainable growth whilst The Group recognises the importance of building incorporating and demonstrating a high degree and maintaining positive relationships with its of social responsibility.
Marshalls regard customers, suppliers and contractors.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as a journey, in the course of which it aims to align There is a commitment to a process of continual increasingly its business values, purpose and improvement in meeting customers requirements strategy with the social and economic needs of its and expectations.
This is highlighted in the stakeholders, whilst embedding responsible and established customer service improvement ethical business polices and practices in programme.
This programme has, since its inception everything it does.
in 2003, resulted in significant and sustained improvement in customer order delivery, on time, in The Board takes regular account of social, full and with increasingly error free product and environmental and ethical matters in the business administration.
of the Group and believes in being responsible in the way that it conducts its operations.
David Sarti The Group Purchasing Policy sets out the standards is responsible for managing the key elements of and ethics by which business is conducted.
It ensures the CSR policy together with a full time CSR that there is no bias or conflict of interest and all manager.
suppliers will be treated fairly and without prejudice.
The Group negotiates terms and conditions, Marshalls is pleased to be a constituent member including payment terms, with all its principal of the FTSE4Good UK Index.
Save in the case of a dispute, payments are an annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report made in accordance with such negotiated which is posted to shareholders in September.
Copies of the 2007 Report are available on the Companys web site at www.
The Group values and derives considerable competitive advantage from active co-operation with its established suppliers in terms of innovation and product development.
Social and Ethical Responsibilities The Group takes its Social and Ethical responsibilities very seriously.
It was the first member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI in its Sector.
As a member of the ETI it is committed to adopting the ETI Base Code on a progressive basis throughout its supply chains with specific focus on China and India.
The Code is based on International Labour Organization conventions and as such is widely acknowledged as a model code of labour practice.
It contains provisions based on the following principles: no-one should be forced to work: workers should be able to join and form trade unions: working conditions should be safe and healthy: child labour should not be used: working hours should not be excessive: wages should be enough to live on and provide some discretionary income: workers should Marshalls Playpave 24 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 be treated equally regardless of their sex, ethnic Cares programme to progress further its connections group, religion or political opinions: where possible, with local communities, schools and other like workers should be provided with regular minded responsible businesses.
During 2007 employment: and workers should not be physically Marshalls contributed to many locally organised abused or disciplined: physical, sexual or other initiatives including educational school visits, college harassment and verbal abuse are prohibited.
tours, work experience schemes and many other local initiatives close to our operations.
As well as adopting the ETI Base Code, the Group has also committed to monitoring and independent Employees verification of its supply chains, awareness-raising and The Groups Statement of Values and Principles sets training, driving year-on-year improvements, assessing out the high standards to which all Marshalls the impact of its core business activities on labour employees are encouraged and expected to adhere.
standards, reporting annually to the ETI on progress The statement includes guidance on business and participating in ETI projects.
practice, employee relations and equality of opportunity and is subject to regular review to In August 2007 an independent audit of the Groups ensure that it continues to set stretching standards in sole supplier of Indian natural sandstone showed terms of excellence, leadership, ownership, trust, compliance to the ETI Base Code.
There is also a published process through which employees can raise, in The Environment confidence, serious concerns about possible Marshalls is committed to assessing and managing the improprieties.
environmental impacts of all its operations.
The Environmental Report is on pages 28 to 33.
Marshalls believes that people are the key to the success of the business and recognises the The Community importance of diversity in terms of the community, its employees and its customers.
The Board is The Group is actively involved in programmes to committed to promoting and maintaining a working promote good community relations and encourages environment where people are treated with respect each business to form and support mutually and where individual talent is recognised and valued.
supportive relationships with their immediate communities which will add value to the local community.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 33,511 2006: 25,657.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2006: Nil.
Alongside cash donations, the Group supports local community engagement by allowing employees to participate in local projects which add value to the local environment.
The Group continues its policy to donate products to community groups and local charities to help transform the local environment for the people living in close proximity to its sites.
Details of some of the community projects are included in the full Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Marshalls continues to be an active member of Sports kit sponsored by Stancliffe Stone Business in the Community and has recently joined a Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 25 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The Company is committed to providing training active links with leading business schools, together designed to raise levels of awareness and sensitivity with on-line access to the most up to date to matters of equality and dignity at work.
To these management thinking on leading business and ends, two significant initiatives were launched in development issues.
The Company continues to 2007 and will continue throughout 2008.
Firstly, a encourage and support the development of its number of formal communication sessions have employees through programmes of NVQ been run, with assistance from specialists in diversity accreditation and attainment of Investor in People training, to encourage awareness of the importance status across many sites: to date in excess of 700 of a diverse workforce in the broadest sense, where employees have attained NVQ accreditation with tolerance and respect for individual differences is the significant numbers actively working towards them.
Secondly, a major leadership development An increasing emphasis is being placed on internal programme commenced in 2007, in conjunction communication to employees through the use of ewith Ashridge, one of the worlds top business mail, intranet, newsletters, briefings and both formal schools.
This will run throughout 2008 and almost 50 and informal presentations.
of the Companys senior managers will participate in an innovative and stretching programme, based on a Further development of information and mixture of lectures, live case studies and real world consultation processes has continued during 2007, business projects, designed to expand their maintaining the improvement in communications appreciation and knowledge of business strategy, through the increased involvement of, and team working and self-awareness.
engagement with, recognised trades unions and their elected employee representatives.
Marshalls aim is to achieve the adoption of fair and merit-based employment policies and adherence to Employees are actively encouraged to donate funds relevant legislation as the minimum acceptable to charity through payroll which accounted for standard.
Individuals with recognised disabilities are approximately 23,400 in 2007 2006: 23,000.
In provided with equality of opportunity during their 2007, at the National Payroll Giving Awards, Marshalls employment and wherever reasonably practicable, was the UK winner of the Best Promotional appropriate adjustments are made to ensure that Partnership with a Charity Award.
they do not suffer disadvantage in the workplace.
Health and Safety Managers are charged with ensuring that employees Health and Safety remains one of Marshalls highest for whom they have responsibility are properly priorities and is considered fundamental to the inducted at business level and provided with the success of the business.
The Group is committed to a necessary support both to fulfil their roles effectively policy of continuous improvement of both its health and to help them develop to their full potential.
In and safety management system and its annual this way, employees are encouraged to engage fully health and safety performance.
To complement the with the businesses in which they work and to extensive management health and safety training identify closely with the Group's strategic aims and programme, 2007 saw the introduction of one day objectives.
safety refresher courses to ensure that the management population keep abreast of current Investment in personal development continues legislation.
Following the successful introduction in across the Company with initiatives in place designed 2006 of a LGV Driver Training Programme, last year to identify and nurture potential, ensure consistent saw the implementation of a similar programme for management practices are applied and provide company car drivers.
Enhanced accident investigation training for first-line managers is opportunities for succession into more senior roles.
planned for 2008 as are training courses on the new These comprise participation in regular internal corporate manslaughter legislation.
coaching and mentoring programmes, undertaking internal development projects and assignments and 26 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 The Safety, Health and Incident Prevention Teams, In 2005 the Group introduced its Behavioural Safety which consist of employee representatives and Programme which aims to identify and resolve managers, continue to be the cornerstone of the potentially unsafe acts in a positive non-judgemental safety management system at site level and make a manner.
The programme has been progressively significant contribution to the improving annual rolled out across the Group and this will continue safety performance.
Manual handling continues to during 2008. be the major health and safety risk and the Groups policy of eliminating manual handling activities The Groups accident performance is monitored by wherever practicable remains unchanged.
the Board on a monthly basis.
The overall rate of workplace accidents within the Group continues to Marshalls continues the implementation of BSI fall.
The number of injury accidents reportable to the accredited Integrated Management Registration HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and throughout the Group.
These systems incorporate Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR was accreditation to OHSAS Occupational Health and 17.8 per 1,000 employees in 2007, compared with Safety Accreditation Standard 18001 and at the end 21.4 per 1,000 employees in 2006 a reduction of 17 of 2007 a total of 24 sites had secured the OHSAS per cent.
The annual target for reduction of this figure 18001 accreditation, which represents 78 per cent of remains unchanged for 2008 at 10 per cent.
The rolling accreditation number of accidents classed as Major injury programme is currently scheduled for completion in increased from 8 in 2006 to 12 in 2007.
2010, with newly acquired businesses being brought into the programme as soon as appropriate.
Accidents and incidents rate per 1,000 employees 2007 2006 Major injury 4.2 2.9 Injury resulting in over 3 absence days from work 13.5 18.5 All RIDDORS 17.8 21.4 Average UK headcount 2,804 2,746 Natural Stone Donation Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 27
