Environmental Report Marshalls strives to conserve natural habitats and Board Responsibility create additional areas of biodiversity value wherever David Sarti is the Director responsible for the possible.
The Group is progressing with the Environmental Performance of the Group.
benchmarking of biodiversity at suitable operational sites.
The Group also recognises the need for Environmental Policy sympathetic restoration and after use of quarry and other operational sites and considers the character of The Groups Environmental Policy, which was the local environment and the concerns of the local reviewed in January 2008, states: community and other stakeholders when planning such matters.
Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of its Environmental Management operations.
The Groups aim is that no lasting During the year, Marshalls continued to roll out environmental damage occurs as a result of its Management Systems.
"Following the publication activities, and policies are being implemented to of Publicly Available Specification 99:2006, ensure that all its operations meet or exceed the Specification of Common Management Systems requirements of legislation and applicable best Requirements as a Framework for Integration ""PAS practice."
"99"", all new sites are being registered in accordance with its requirements and therefore have an Marshalls regards compliance with relevant Integrated Management Registration ""IMR""."
The environmental laws, and the adoption of responsible IMR allows better integration of ISO 9000: 2000 for standards where no legislation exists, as an integral Quality Management, OHSAS 18001:1999 for Health part of its business strategy and is committed to and Safety Management and ISO 14001: 2004 for considering the environmental impacts associated Environmental Management.
Sites that had already with its products throughout their life cycle.
"obtained Integrated Management Systems ""IMS"" Particular focus is applied to the management of are transferring to IMR in accordance with a greenhouse gas emissions through implementation programme agreed with BSI, the Groups registration of a Climate Change Policy, and, in addition to this, the body."
Carbon Footprint of product families is also seen as an important aspect of the Groups management in At the end of 2007 the Group had 55 operational sites this area.
compared with 44 in 2006, the additional sites resulting from acquisition and organic growth.
Of Marshalls has committed to monitor its these sites: environmental performance in line with the CPA guidelines.
Environmental aspects are identified at 32 2006: 26 had ISO 9000:2000 Quality each site and corresponding objectives and targets Management Systems in place representing 74 per set to reduce the significance of impacts in those cent of the Groups manufacturing output 2006: areas.
These will be reviewed on at least an annual 84 per cent : basis to ensure continual improvement.
24 2006: 23 had OHSAS 18001:1999 for Health and Safety Management Systems in place Marshalls will continue to raise environmental representing 72 per cent of the Groups awareness within the Group through the manufacturing output 2006: 82 per cent : and development and training of its employees and will 22 2006: 19 had ISO 14001:2004 for communicate openly and consult with customers, Environmental Management Systems in place suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant representing 68 per cent of the Groups environmental matters.
IMS IMR therefore covers 68 per cent of the Groups manufacturing output 2006: 78 per cent.
28 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 per tonne of production output measure.
Each In addition, the Group Laboratory and Marketing Support Department have IMS registration which KPI has been presented graphically showing five includes Environmental Management to ISO years of comparative data.
Energy While additional sites have obtained registration to The KPI for energy consumption is the amount of IMS and other Management Systems during 2007 the overall percentages of production tonnage energy consumed KG CO at manufacturing sites 2 registered have dropped solely as a result of the high per tonne of production output excluding volume output from the Groups additional sites in transport fuels.
The bar chart below illustrates the Groups A plan is in place to continue the roll out programme.
The target is still to obtain registration of all sites KG of CO Consumed per Tonne of Production Output 2 owned at the beginning of 2007 by the end of 2008.
Excluding Transport Fuels Sites acquired and sites developed through organic 10.1 9.9 expansion during 2007 are planned to be registered by the end of 2009.
None of the sites acquired during 7.4 7.2 7.0 2007 had any robust management systems in place.
The target is to have over 85 per cent of the Groups manufacturing output registered to IMR by the end of 2008 based on sites owned and in operation at the end of 2007.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The Group uses the formulae provided by the Environmental Impact Carbon Trust to calculate the CO e emissions 2 The Group continues to review any significant arising from the fuels that it uses apart from environmental impacts of its operations and electricity.
The CO e data arising from consumption 2 utilises CPA KPIs to measure the impacts year on of electricity is provided direct by the Groups year.
The CPAs KPIs are measured on a constant supplier.
This reflects the increased proportion of less polluting generation included in the Groups supply agreement for electricity.
The Group committed to reduce its absolute emissions by 2000 tonnes CO e during 2007.
2 Programmes were put in place to deliver this target on a like for like basis.
Due to acquisitions and organic growth the Group's production rose by 12.9 per cent during 2007 whilst during the same period the Groups CO e emissions increased by 2 only 2.4 per cent.
Unlike the CPA KPI the savings detailed include transport operations.
The Group has entered into an agreement with the Carbon Trust to develop an energy saving programme during 2008.
This builds on the Groups experience of setting individual targets for each of its main precast concrete manufacturing sites during 2007 which led to increased energy Maltby Conservation Area Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 29 KG CO per Tonne 2 Environmental Report continued efficiency and corresponding savings in CO e water by a combination of recycling water and 2 emissions.
Similar targets are being used in 2008 harvesting and storage of rainwater.
In 2007 the and are being rolled out in the Natural Stone Group won the Premier Award in the Business operations to ensure Group-wide best practice is Commitment to the Environment Awards for its adopted in all operations.
Development of a production water balance is During 2007 the Group submitted data to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
The Group agreed to ongoing at two further sites.
The development of the data submitted being placed in the public water balances at production sites limits water domain.
In 2007 the Groups CO emissions totalled 2 discharges to domestic sewage discharge other 60,639 tonnes.
Work on achieving a similar water balance is now progressing in the Natural Stone production units The KPI includes all Group operations including with cooling water from stone sawing operations head office, other administrative and support being recycled after cleaning.
The Group has set a target of saving at discharge water from all its precast concrete sites on least 2,000 tonnes of CO e during 2008 based on 2 a monthly basis.
sites owned and in operation at the end of December 2007.
Investment in processes associated with the production of distressed products has reduced the demand for water and subsequent recycling at the Water Use pilot site.
The investment, which gives clear The KPI for water use is the volume of water used in environmental advantages in water usage, is being cubic metres on site including office and domestic rolled out to other sites producing similar products.
use from controlled waters i. e. mains and extracted water per tonne of production output.
The Groups target for water management in 2008 is to reduce consumption from mains and extracted The bar chart below illustrates the Groups water to below 0.05 cubic metres per tonne of performance for 2003-2007. production output based on consumption at the Water used per Tonne of Production Output end of December 2007.
0.0878 0.0856 0.0587 0.0525 0.0525 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 The lack of reduction in water consumption per tonne of production output is due to additional water consumption in the Natural Stone aggregates operation which we have been expanding.
The Group now has two precast concrete factories, where, given average climatic conditions the Ramsbottom Rain Water Harvesting manufacturing operations are self-sufficient in 30 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Water used per Tonne The Service Centre concept with its associated high Transport proportion of locally manufactured products The KPI for transport is the number of transport continues to provide environmental dividends by movements leaving site made by the company or reducing the miles goods have to travel thereby its contractors via road, rail, water or other method improving transport efficiency while reducing the per tonne of production output.
The bar chart below illustrates the Groups Waste Reduction performance for 20032007.
The KPI for solid waste reduction is the amount of Transport Movements Per Tonne of Production Output waste including material for recycling leaving site tonnes as a percentage of total production output.
Percentage of Waste Including Material for Recycling Leaving Site as a Percentage of Total Production Output 4.56% 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 3.72% 3.07% 2.58% The slight increase in 2007 has been largely due to 2.23% the expansion of the Premier Mortars business which has required the use of vehicles carrying a smaller payload to meet customer requirements.
This limits the progress on improving the KPI due to 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 greater vehicle movements per tonne of production The KPI does not differentiate between waste output.
leaving site for recycling and waste leaving site for landfill.
In 2007, 82 per cent of the Groups waste The Group has been running Euro 3 diesel engine HGVs and has commenced a replacement was reused or recycled 2006: 76 per cent with only programme based on Euro 5 diesel engines to 18 per cent going to landfill 2006: 24 per cent.
reduce emissions further and improve fuel During 2008 particular emphasis is being placed on efficiency.
material efficiency to minimise waste of raw materials in the production process.
Five per cent bio diesel is now added to the Groups diesel supplies.
The Group continues to monitor The Group continues wherever possible to use carefully developments with such fuels and their waste materials from other industries as feed environmental impact.
Likewise the development materials to its production processes.
China clay in dual fuel and hybrid vehicles are also monitored waste, steel slag waste, slate waste, crushed glass in conjunction with our vehicle suppliers.
and slag cements are typical of the products being utilised.
Trials with rail transport for long distance deliveries have proved successful.
As a result, if appropriate The Groups target for waste reduction is to reduce and depending on customer requirements, a small the percentage of waste going to landfill to below number of deliveries are being transferred from 15 per cent total waste produced based on road to rail.
production capacity at the end of December 2007.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 31 Transport Movement per Tonne Percentage of Waste Environmental Report continued The Group uses packaging to ensure safe handling, Packaging storage and transport of its products.
The packaging The KPI for packaging is the amount of packaging is also designed to minimise damage to the product material bought in tonnes to be used for the and hence waste during the above operations.
In containment, protection, handling, delivery and addition, the packaging is used to give both health presentation of goods as a percentage of production and safety advice to prospective users of the output.
products and instructions on the products installation.
The bar chart below illustrates the Groups performance for 2003-2007.
Investment in processes associated with the Percentage of Packaging Material Bought as a distressing of certain products is being rolled out Percentage of Total Production Output across the Group and will result in a reduction in the 0.414% demand for pallets for the products with resulting environmental benefits.
A pallet rationalisation 0.286% 0.282% programme has also yielded environmental benefits.
0.256% 0.210% Supplies of timber pallets to the Group are carefully monitored.
75 per cent of the timber used comes from FSC approved sources with the remaining 25 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 per cent coming from Latvia where there is a Government-run scheme to ensure sustainable practices are followed.
"During 2007 the Environment Agency audited the Group under the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 2007""."
The Group received a clean audit.
The Groups target for packaging reduction in 2008 is to reduce further the use of timber pallets by 5 per cent and to reduce the tonnage of polythene packaging by 5 per cent based on 2007 consumption.
Suppliers and Contractors Suppliers and contractors are monitored closely and in particular their environmental impact.
The Group continues to aim for all its key suppliers to have Environmental Management Systems in place.
This has extended overseas where one important supplier has recently obtained registration to IMS.
In other cases the Group works with suppliers to develop environmental best practice and to benefit actively from suppliers environmental activities.
Reed Beds, Eaglescliffe 32 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Percentage of Packing Material 1 0 0 9 O S I N E S B 1 0 0 4 1 O Marshalls is an active member of the British Precast Environmental Impact of Products Concrete Federation Sustainability Committee.
The Group maintains its policy of producing products Marshalls is a signatory of the Precast Sector intended for a long life with low maintenance.
product range produces a very low risk of pollution and, in the majority of cases, can be easily recycled at Land Management the end of the constructions useful life, either as a primary product in the case of most small element During 2007 all of the Groups major construction paving or, after crushing, as a secondary aggregate or projects were contained within existing sites or were other form of recycled material.
The Group is actively on brown field sites with the exception of a new working with the Building Research Establishment to aggregates reserve near Manchester.
establish the environmental profile of its products and with the Carbon Trust regarding the carbon Environmental Awareness and footprint and carbon labelling of its products.
The Training Group has provided its customers with a Carbon The Group continues to be active in developing Calculator for its products via its website for both its environmental awareness among its employees by a domestic and commercial range of products.
The site variety of means.
Subsidised bicycles and also gives details of how customers can offset the development of travel plans for employees to reduce carbon calculated.
the impact of travel to work are but two examples.
Business in the Community awarded Marshalls a Sustainability Big Tick for excellence in ecoefficiency in its 2007 Awards.
Management Today placed Marshalls third During 2007 the Group published its second for environmental activities in its Annual Survey in Sustainability Report which is available on the 2007.
The Report gives further details of the Groups Sustainability Plan which sets out to deliver benefits to the environment Biodiversity and all its stakeholders.
The plan addresses Following the Award by the Wildlife Trust of the economic, social and environmental aspects of Biodiversity Benchmark to Marshalls Maltby site, Marshalls operations underpinned by development Marshalls continues to develop its biodiversity of management systems registered by the awareness.
It has plans to develop further independent third party BSI.
benchmarked sites to demonstrate its concern for the protection and development of biodiversity for the benefit of the Group and all its stakeholders.
The Green Organisation in their annual environmental awards awarded Marshalls a Golden Apple for the Environmental Water use CO and CO e 2 2 Groups work on biodiversity.
Marshalls were the overall winner in the construction section of the awards.
Biodiversity Waste to landfill Legal Economic Social Total shareholder Ethical sourcing Safety return Corporate Social Labour Responsibility productivity Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 33 S I N E S B 1 0 0 8 1 S A S H O
