14474 NEW GOLD 1-7:Layout 1 11 12 07 10:59 Page 1 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Marstons team on Group events and providing an opportunity to record The Marstons Group the Group directly employs around and celebrate employee achievements.
This is supported 14,000 people offering opportunities in every county by regular fortnightly or monthly briefing sessions held of England and Wales.
In addition our 1,722 lessees throughout the Group.
and tenants within Marstons Pub Company also employ a significant number of people within a similar geographical spread.
No matter what you do, if you work for the Group you are helping to contribute to our success and as such the Group aims to offer every employee a competitive salary and benefits package.
As a reflection of the importance placed upon people within the Group, the Chief Executive takes responsibility for all people related matters, which are then delegated through the other Executive Board Directors and the Groups Director of Human Resources.
The Group operates a full Equal Opportunities policy and a Whistleblowing policy, both of which are available on the Groups website: www.
FIT For a number of years the Group has operated a policy The Group has a long history of excellent consultative of FIT as the mantra by which we would choose to be and collective bargaining relationships with its trade judged.
FIT applies equally to our employees, customers, unions, at its breweries, distribution centres, head office suppliers and the Groups relationships with the wider and pub sites.
Employee representatives, both Trade community within which we operate.
Union officials and lay members, have a significant and recognised role to play in developing our business and FIT is a summary of three fundamental behaviours that we intend to continue to encourage such participation.
Looking after our team Fairness - Any action, decision or policy adopted within The Group operates a free Employee Assistance Programme the Group should be both equitable and reasonable.
It providing confidential support for employees, either directly should not result in one particular group of stakeholders or through their manager, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
gaining an unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
We also operate an outsourced Occupational Heath service which provides health support and advice to both employees Integrity - If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it and managers, together with more general work associated cannot be delivered, or circumstances change so that an with promoting healthy living.
alternative course of action is appropriate, this should be clearly explained.
All employees have access to a pension arrangement and can participate in our hospital pay plan, providing financial Transparency - Wherever there is the freedom to do so, assistance for a range of medical expenses.
the Group should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of our employees and the wider community.
More than 40 percent of employees within our head office and supply chain teams have been with us for more than Talking to the team 10 years and around 25 percent of our pub based staff Ensuring our people understand what we are doing and have more than two years service.
We recognise this why we are doing it is crucial to our policy of operating in loyalty and commitment with long service awards for a FIT manner and fostering employee engagement.
Even both groups of employees.
more importantly we try to listen to and act upon the feedback we receive in return.
A diverse team Over 55 percent of our people work on a part time basis Our confidential employee attitude survey is an important to suit their personal circumstances offering excellent part of our employee feedback process.
The next survey opportunities for students, people returning to the work is due to be run in 2008 and we are confident that we environment and those who find vocational rather than will maintain and build upon the excellent scores we have academic training the best way to maximise their potential.
As a Group, with pubs and breweries that operate at the heart of local communities, we are proud that the people The Word, the Groups employee magazine, is sent to all we employ are drawn from these communities.
our employees and our pensioners, keeping them updated 22 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3 14474 NEW GOLD 1-7:Layout 1 11 12 07 10:59 Page 2 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55 percent of our total workforce is female and of those the Group supports many of its employees through further undertaking management responsibilities 35 percent and higher education.
This year has seen the introduction of are woman.
the ground breaking Pedigree People Programme in Marstons Pub Company where all of our Business We offer a Childcare Voucher Scheme providing Development Managers have had an individual development employees with significant tax savings when paying for programme constructed for them and they have also a whole range of childcare initiatives.
Those employees completed the nationally recognised British Institute of whose tax arrangements mean that this scheme offers Innkeeping BII Advanced Certificate in Hospitality with a them no advantage have access to a specialised helpline 100% pass rate.
designed to give them advice on how to take advantage of other kinds of childcare support which may be better We also run a Life-long Learning programme comprising suited to their needs.
short courses and seminars, often run by fellow employees, covering general interests and hobbies to encourage people The Group runs a development programme for our people who may not have undertaken training and development for that focuses specifically on issues relating to diversity and a number of years to think about development in a positive in addition, this topic also features in other development way and to try some of our more business-focussed and training programmes such as recruitment and selection.
This year we ran 50 such programmes with 551 employees attending.
Marstons Inns and Taverns continues to be a member of the Employers Forum on Disability.
During the year Development opportunities extend beyond our employees we have an ongoing programme of accessibility audits and we run an extensive range of courses for our tenants of our outlets, often resulting in changes that make our and lessees.
In 2006-7 over 2,200 training days were pubs more accessible to customers and employees with delivered covering a wide range of topics from merchandising a disability.
and cellar management to finance and legal compliance.
Developing employees The Group has been continually accredited with the prestigious Investor in People standard since 1995 and has won a number of National Training Awards over the same period.
We support a wide and very varied range of professional and personal development opportunities from masters degrees to salsa dancing and everything in between so that everyone has access to the development they need to truly maximise their potential.
Bar and kitchen staff working in Marstons Inns and Taverns receive comprehensive induction, skills and health and safety training and can then opt to go on to undertake specialist courses in areas such as catering or cellar management Health and safety before moving on to our Keyholder Programme.
The The Group has a health and safety policy, endorsed by Keyholder Programme is designed to encourage staff within the Board and used throughout the Group.
The Board Marstons Inns and Taverns pubs to obtain the skills they receives an annual presentation from the Group Health need to ultimately manage their own outlet and potentially and Safety Manager giving detailed statistics on health move into area management.
Over 600 employees have and safety issues and the progress made in improving successfully completed one of the stages of the Keyholder our performance where required.
These reports also Programme and some have already moved into pub outline planned health and safety initiatives and comment management roles.
on potential future developments and challenges.
We offer similar induction, job skills and health and safety Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms training to all our industrial staff together with specialist part of our induction process, and many managers have courses such as fork lift truck and HGV driving.
Ultimately been trained in risk assessment techniques.
All of our they can graduate onto courses accredited by the Chartered production, distribution and head office locations, together Institute of Management CIM that prepare them for with Marstons Inns and Taverns, have active health and supervisory, technical or management roles.
safety committees, involving both managers and employees, which meet regularly and are co-ordinated by the Group For head office and management staff we run a large Health and Safety Manager.
range of development programmes, some accredited by the CIM or other external training education bodies.
Our Within Marstons Inns and Taverns, all pubs undergo health people are encouraged to apply for these in order to develop and safety audits by an external contractor and the measures themselves and their teams.
As well as internal programmes by which we judge a satisfactory outcome are continually 23 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3 14474 NEW GOLD 1-7:Layout 1 11 12 07 10:59 Page 3 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT reviewed and the standards raised.
Each pub receives a both its managed and leased pub estate.
In addition: comprehensive health and safety manual for use as a source of information, guidance and training together with a set of Marstons Pub Company runs a customised drinks compliance documentation that has been widely praised by and drugs awareness programme, which our lessees Environmental Health Officers.
and tenants are encouraged to attend.
The Groups educational activities extend beyond In Marstons Pub Company tenants and lessees are provided employees and lessees.
We firmly believe that providing with the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and support to facilitate training and education for young can also obtain examples of best practice for use within their people in alcohol awareness and responsible drinking pubs.
In addition, we provide assistance with important legal is of paramount importance.
For the last three years the requirements such as fire risk assessments.
Group has provided funding for Staffordshire County Youth Service enabling them to give their teenage Peer FOILE initiative Health Advisors alcohol awareness training.
The Field Operations Interventions with Larger Employers The Group is delighted to announce that in conjunction FOILE initiative is a programme established by the Health with the BII and the Schools Project Partnership we and Safety Executive HSE with a view to taking a more have become the first Core Partner of the Schools proactive stance on health and safety management.
The Hospitality Partnership, a nationwide programme to bring Group was pleased to be asked to be one of the first web based alcohol awareness teaching aids together organisations to work in partnership with the HSE.
Work with careers advice to secondary schools across has been ongoing throughout the year and we have the country.
already begun to see benefits arising from this partnership.
Further information can be found at www.
Alcohol our responsibility The Group believes that alcohol which is sold and Community consumed responsibly has a role within the ever-widening The Group is committed to being an active and positive range of social interests and that the pub can be a positive contributor to the communities it serves.
The Groups focus for the communities within which we live and Environmental, Corporate & Social Responsibility CSR operate.
However, we are equally mindful of the Committee meets at least quarterly, under the stewardship negative impacts on health and behaviour that alcohol of the Managing Director of Marstons Pub Company.
can contribute to when people or retailers choose to abdicate such responsibilities and we strive to ensure The Group works with Business in the Community that the Group takes a socially responsible approach and encourages employees to get involved in voluntary to all its activities.
The Group is very pleased to be asked to support, both financially and practically, The Group is a longstanding member of the British Beer these employee initiatives.
and Pub Association BBPA, and both Marstons Inns and Taverns and Marstons Pub Company are signatories to the Portman Groups Code of Practice on the Naming, Packaging and Promotion of Alcoholic Drinks.
The Group also supports The Drinkaware Trust, as mentioned in the Business Review, and the activities it plans.
Our promotional material carries a clear and concise message encouraging the responsible consumption of alcohol and on our bottles and cans we provide information about the alcohol content of the product concerned.
Marstons Pedigree was the first beer brand to include a responsible drinking message in its television advertising, something that the rest of the sector has been quick to adopt.
Alcohol education Our training programmes for our retail staff include significant elements designed to assist their determination of when it would be inappropriate to serve a customer and how to take positive steps to ensure that difficult situations are handled in a calm, safe and considered Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and manner.
Particular emphasis is placed upon the tenants raise significant amounts of money for many identification of potential underage drinkers and the different charitable causes through local pub based Group actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative in activity and contributions from the Marstons Inns and 24 14474 10.12.07 PROOF 3 14474 NEW GOLD 1-7:Layout 1 11 12 07 10:59 Page 4 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Taverns Local Heroes Foundation.
Donations from the foundation are funded directly from contributions made by employees within its head office function, which are then matched by Marstons Inns and Taverns.
In addition to providing prizes and administrative support for the charitable activities of their tenants and lessees Marstons Pub Company raises money for nominated charities.
Marstons Beer Company makes prize donations for charitable activities run by its Free Trade customers.
Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity Fund, which we are proud to support.
This fund is run by employees for employees and in the last 12 months the fund has donated over 12,500 to a range of local good causes nominated by our employees.
The Group runs Give As You Earn arrangements for employees enabling them to make tax-efficient donations to this, or any other registered charity of their choice.
The administration charges for running this scheme are borne by the Group, thereby ensuring that employees donations are given in their entirety to good causes.
Ethical purchasing As a responsible employer we have a duty to support and encourage a responsible purchasing policy for all of our goods and services.
As a minimum, all of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
This Code requires purchasing professionals to have due regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues and full details of the Code can be found on the CIPS web site.
In support of our commitment to this code of practice we also subscribe to the European Eco Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
The Group Director of Purchasing is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of the Groups ethical purchasing policy.
