MITIE at a glance We are one of the UKs leading support services companies delivering a range of integrated services to support the buildings and infrastructure of our clients.
We are a people business, made up of over 49,000 talented and driven people, all working to support our three divisions: facilities, property and engineering services.
We are a UK based, FTSE 250 Company that has a track record of growing revenue, pro t and earnings per share.
We have a clear strategy and vision, supported by a set of core values.
Strategy Values To deliver stakeholder value through People MITIE is a people business.
a focus on sustainable, pro table Its our 49,505 people, and their growth.
drive to always do their jobs to the very best of their ability that make us different.
Thats To be a Company of world-class what MITIEs all about.
Take our people delivering world-class people, add their passion and services.
you get something really special.
Fresh thinking Our people are always having ideas.
Every day, the teams at MITIE come up with original thoughts, from the brilliant to the sublime.
Its our ability to innovate that helps us improve and develop services, enter new markets and keep our clients happy.
Exciting futures We want to make sure that all MITIE people want to do their jobs better than anyone else in the world.
Motivating our people is part of our daily routine: providing inspiration from skill development, career progression and recognition of a job well done.
2 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1,407.2m Key facts Sectors Revenue 49,505 People 4.4bn Order book Government 17% Finance and professional 13% Manufacturing and logistics 11% UK based Retail 11% Education 9% Property management 8% Social housing 7% Strong balance Science and technology 6% Construction 5% Healthcare 4% sheet Utilities 4% Leisure and entertainment 3% Transport 2% Single service Facilities A client outsources one service management to MITIE.
A complete facilities management 3 solution, tailor made for each and Multi-service every client.
A client outsources more than one service to MITIE.
contract types Facilities Property Services Services Integrated facilities management Roo ng, repairs and redecoration, 3 and a range of services interior t-out, plumbing and heating, including: asset management, social housing maintenance and energy consultancy, document refurbishment and re protection.
management, front of house, service catering, cleaning, engineering Engineering maintenance, landscaping, pest control, security, waste and areas environmental management.
Services Mechanical and electrical, energy generation and management, technology and infrastructure.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
