The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 01 Business review Governance Financial statements Operational and financial highlights Highlights 3 Revenue for the full year grew to 835.0 million, up 20.5% on the previous year 3 Group underlying operating profit margin improved to 11.8% compared to 11.4% for the full year 2007 3 Underlying EPS improved by 18.8% to 23.4 pence from 19.7 pence 3 The technical ceramics businesses acquired from the Carpenter Technology Corporation in March 2008 have performed well with revenues and profits ahead of expectations Revenue Continuing businesses m 835.0 693.2 677.8 609.8 581.6 000.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Underlying operating profit margin Continuing businesses % 11.8 11.4 7.0 3.8 2.0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 02 Business review Governance Financial statements Clear positioning... Our vision 3 Our vision is to be one of the worlds very best advanced materials companies Our aim 3 Our aim is to cr eate long-term superior shareholder value Our strategic priorities 3 Focus on higher growth, higher margin, non-economically cyclical markets 3 Be high value-added to our customers 3 Be number one or number two in our chosen market segments 3 Have a culture of operational excellence and cost efficiency 3 Find, keep and develop the right people The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 03 Business review Governance Financial statements... and structure The Morgan Crucible Company plc Insulating Ceramics Technical Ceramics Carbon Division Division Division Divisional revenue Divisional revenue Divisional revenue 382.9m 212.2m 239.9m The Insulating Ceramics Division designs, The Technical Ceramics Division utilises The Carbon Division is a global provider manufactures and installs a wide variety advanced ceramic, glass, precious metals, of advanced materials technology with of engineered solutions from its range piezoelectric and dielectric materials combined extensive expertise in the processing of world renowned advanced insulation with innovative design and applications and applications of carbon, graphite, and thermal management products.
engineering to provide an extensive range silicon carbide, oxide ceramics and These solutions help customers to protect of ceramic components, assemblies and other related materials.
Working at the equipment and personnel and also to related products for niche technological forefront of materials technology, Carbon reduce dramatically energy consumption applications in selected markets.
In many develops value-added customer solutions in their processes and, in many applications, applications, the technology provided by through engineering innovation and also help reduce emissions to the Technical Ceramics defines the performance an understanding of industry-specic environment.
of the customers end product.
Core products applications: Core products applications: Core products applications: 3 Thermal management solutions 3 Electron tube components and assemblies 3 Electrical brushes 3 Insulating bres 3 Ceramic cores for turbine blades 3 Seals and bearings 3 Insulating re bricks 3 Piezoelectric ceramic actuators 3 Protective ballistic armour 3 Crucibles and furnaces 3 Laser components 3 Ultra high temperature insulation Markets: Markets: Markets: 3 Petrochemical 3 Aerospace 3 Transportation 3 Power generation 3 Electronics 3 Industrial equipment 3 Ceramics and glass 3 Medical 3 Fluid handling 3 Metals 3 Power generation and distribution 3 Defence and aerospace 3 Transportation 3 Security and defence 3 Renewable energy Divisional EBITA Divisional EBITA Divisional EBITA Continuing businesses m Continuing businesses m Continuing businesses m 45.6 31.6 36.3 35.2 34.1 37.5 20.0 28.6 17.2 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 Divisional EBITA is dened as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 04 Business review Governance Financial statements A global business... Operations by geography Morgan Crucible has operations in 40 countries and employs over 10,000 people worldwide.
Americas Group underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit m 2008 55.3m 24.5% 98.2 56.3% 78.9 2007 2008 Operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 05 Business review Governance Financial statements... growing profits worldwide EMEA Asia Europe, Middle East and Africa Including Australia and New Zealand Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit 2008 2008 22.4m 20.5m 20.9% 22.8% The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 06 Business review Governance Financial statements Leading edge solutions for a demanding world Thermal Ceramics: Investing in technology New global research and development centre Improved thermal and energy efficiency is a key global imperative for the 21st century.
As part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, the Thermal Ceramics business is well placed to help address this need with its differentiated advanced technology insulation solutions, including the bio-soluble Superwool range of materials.
Thermal Ceramics is building on its success in high temperature bio-soluble insulating bre having invested in 2008 in a new global R&D centre at Bromborough, UK.
The new R&D centre houses pilot equipment dedicated to developing and trialling the next generation of materials.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 07 Business review Governance Financial statements Carbon: Generations of world leading technology efficiency in the worlds power stations World demand for electricity is increasing and the carbon brushes designed and manufactured by the Carbon Division provide the key technology which allows electricity to be transferred from a high rotational speed modern generator into the electricity distribution grid.
Technical Ceramics: Growth through innovation To perform this task the Carbon Division has developed unique graphite materials technology for excitation slip rings, with good Innovation improves disk drive life, lm forming and electrical current sharing properties.
It is this technology that has enabled the Carbon Division to maintain its storage capacity position as a long-term, world leader, approved and used by original equipment manufacturers around the world.
Total demand for data storage has been growing by over 50% annually in recent years and high capacity storage is now required in ever more devices including HD-TV recorders and increasingly powerful PCs.
Increasing the physical size of such devices is not an option and so the Technical Ceramics Division has been working with major players in the eld to increase disk drive capacity.
Fitting more data onto the same size of disk requires increasingly accurate control of the read write head and Technical Ceramics piezoelectric actuator plates enable the head to be positioned with extraordinary accuracy and vibration control.
This leading edge technology increases disk drive capacity by 15-20%, opening up opportunities for Morgan and its customers.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 08 Business review Governance Financial statements Strong partnerships and ground breaking technology Molten Metal Systems: Addressing customer needs Recuperative furnace Traditional brick lined gas-red metal-melting furnaces are energy hungry.
Much of the energy goes into heating the brick lining Thermal Ceramics: Long-term partnerships or goes up the stack.
As a result an aluminium melting furnace may only be 18% efficient.
The MkV R furnace from Morgan Superwool 607 diesel particulate Molten Metal Systems, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, uses recuperative burner systems to recycle waste heat from the lters production furnace stack to preheat the combustion air entering the burner.
This is combined with the most efficient low thermal mass materials Thermal Ceramics, part of the Insulating Ceramics Division, has for the furnace lining so the MkV R furnace can be more than a comprehensive technical and supply agreement with the leading twice as efficient as a traditional one a real breakthrough.
In manufacturer of diesel particulate lters.
Demand for these lters addition, advanced burner technology means lower NOx emissions, is being driven by increased use of diesel engines and increasingly enabling the furnace to be operated both safely and with minimum stringent global vehicle emission standards.
insulation is used to enable the lter to reach the high temperatures necessary for self cleansing.
Working with its customer, Thermal Ceramics achieved a technological breakthrough which enables bio-soluble Superwool 607HT to be used, delivering benets to our customer, in manufacture, in service and at end-of-life.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 09 Business review Governance Financial statements Technical Ceramics: Global technology solution Medical diagnostic imaging demands technical solution 40 Technical Ceramics works closely with its customers in the healthcare sector, helping to push forward the frontiers of material Technical Ceramics: Joint technology development technology to produce ceramic based components which are critical to the performance of the latest high denition medical diagnostics 40 years of collaboration and imaging equipment.
For example, ceramics are increasingly used in the vacuum tubes at the heart of the latest x-ray and and innovation CAT scanning machines, replacing traditional glass components.
The high purity, engineered components supplied by Technical During 2008, Technical Ceramics and leading pump manufacturer Ceramics have specic electrical and physical properties which help Grundfos celebrated 40 years of working together.
The two equipment manufacturers to produce machines which offer longer companies have collaborated on multiple innovations over the life, higher power and better images.
years, including the development of a ceramic solution intrinsic to the performance of the circulator pumps to be found in most modern central heating systems.
Millions of these pumps are made annually so it was appropriate that the 40 year celebration also included the formal opening of the new Volume Precision Ceramics department at Technical Ceramics Stourport, UK site and the award by Grundfos of a new multi-million euro contract.
Preben Jakobsen, Grundfos Technical Manager, said: The reliability and durability of the components that Technical Ceramics supplies are absolutely critical to us.
Without the reassurance they offer we would not be able to stand by our lifetime and performance guarantees, on which our reputation in the industry relies.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Enhancing global sustainability Carbon: Helping make a difference Getting the power from the wind into the grid Demand for clean, sustainable, CO free energy has never been 2 greater and Carbon is well placed to help original equipment makers to develop this growth market.
The Division supplies the key enabling technologies for wind power generation for both turbines and the generators within.
Long life and reliability are essential for all the key components in a wind turbine.
Many are installed in harsh and corrosive marine and high altitude environments where access is difficult and repeated maintenance is not an easy option.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 11 Business review Governance Financial statements Group-wide: Co-operating to add value A bright future for solar energy The Earth receives an impressive 10,000 times more energy from the sun than mankind consumes every year.
The three Divisions of Morgan Crucible are involved in the challenge to harness this solar energy for our everyday use.
Technical Ceramics is working with leading companies who are developing photovoltaic PV-Cell power.
Utilising materials science Thermal Ceramics: Reducing CO emissions per unit of electricity 2 and applications engineering their contribution takes the form of optimised products for both the PV-cell manufacturing process Heat recovery steam and the nished panels.
generators boost efficiency The Carbon Division is leveraging its world leading capability in high temperature insulation for solar silicon manufacturers around the globe, helping to increase efficiency and making solar energy The most efficient way of converting fossil fuel into electricity is a more viable source of long-term, sustainable electrical power.
in a combined cycle power station which combines a gas turbine with a heat recovery steam generator HRSG which recovers Thermal Ceramics advanced insulation systems are used in exhaust heat from the gas turbine to make steam to power the emerging concentrated solar power sector where arrays a second generator.
The HRSG boosts efficiency and thermal of tracking reectors are used to focus solar energy to create a efficiency is key to achieving this.
Thermal Ceramics has a leading high temperature in a dened space.
This includes power tower position in supplying the advanced insulation solutions required.
applications where the concentrated sunlight melts salt and the The market is set to see further growth as gasication technology heat energy is then used to generate electricity and also Sterling is used to convert coal and heavy crude oil into syngas which engine applications whereby heat energy is directly converted can then be used in a gas turbine rather than being limited to into mechanical power which is used to generate electricity.
use in a traditional coal or oil red power station.
The solar energy market is set for a bright future and Morgan is well positioned to support its ongoing growth and success.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 12 Business review Governance Financial statements Developing and retaining the right people Thermal Ceramics: Global recruitment Finding the right people worldwide Thermal Ceramics is using its global presence to help identify, attract and retain the right people worldwide.
For example the European and Asian operations are working with Chinese MBA students attending the Conservatoire National des Arts et Mtiers CNAM in Paris.
Whilst the students are in Europe they have the opportunity to spend time with Thermals European operations, carrying out special projects which support the business and their studies whilst also learning about Thermal Ceramics advanced insulation technologies.
On completion of their studies they have the opportunity to join the Thermal Ceramics team of over 800 employees in China bringing world-class business, technical and language skills.
Recent participants came from backgrounds in finance, automation, biotechnology and engineering.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 13 Business review Governance Financial statements Technical Ceramics: The next generation Graduate recruitment programme Group-wide: e-learning to share the vision To help ensure Technical Ceramics continues to attract the best talent, the Division initiated a Graduate Recruitment Programme Developing our people to at the end of 2007.
The programme targets graduates in both North America and Europe and emphasises the opportunity to achieve their full potential join a global business and to work with cutting edge materials technology.
Following a series of assessment days, five graduates and post-graduates are selected from a variety of disciplines, Our aim is to enable our people to achieve their full potential by including mechanical, systems, materials and biomaterials, developing the depth and breadth of their skills and capabilities ceramics and chemical engineering.
that will help to achieve our vision of being one of the worlds very best advanced materials companies.
Ken Ash, HR Manager, Technical Ceramics Stourport, said: In August 2008 we launched our first worldwide e-learning This program has enabled us to identify a really high quality programme, Business English.
With businesses around the globe, batch of new engineers.
In the coming years they will help Morgan Crucibles e-learning programmes extend the range and sustain the technical expertise in Technical Ceramics while power of training and development that we can offer our people.
bringing fresh ideas into the business.
The Business English programme will help and encourage our people to communicate with greater effect across borders, countries and continents and improve the overall performance of our business.
