Effective, reliable public services improve day-to-day life for Mouchel millions of people.
Mouchels strength lies in managing and at a Glance improving the way in which public services are delivered and in providing the many professional and technical services needed to achieve this.
We operate in three distinct areas: in the provision of highway engineering and management services: in the management of other professional services for local and central government: and in the provision of services to utilities, rail companies and other industries regulated by government.
Most of our work remains in the British Isles but we have a rapidly-expanding presence in the Middle East.
Highways Government Services Regulated Industries Technology is transforming the Local authorities are striving to achieve The search is well and truly on to highways sector: making roads better services with limited resources.
find more sustainable ways of coping safer, keeping traffic on the move The combination of their challenges, with societys unrelenting demands and improving travel choices.
our passion for public service and our for energy, water and waste disposal.
Keith Jackson, Managing Director capability means our role will be greater This is largely uncharted territory than ever before.
and the prize for success is high.
Steve Morriss, Managing Director, Piers Clark, Managing Director Government and Business Services Theres a constant need for our clients to improve the way they buy goods and services, ensure the benefits of infrastructure investment are realised and improve operational effectiveness.
Mark Campbell, Managing Director, Management Consulting Percentage of Group revenue Percentage of Group revenue Percentage of Group revenue 33% 41% 26% 1 Revenue: 221.2 million 1 Revenue: 267.1 million 1 Revenue: 168.4 million 2 Underlying operating 2 Underlying operating 2 Underlying operating profit: 16.6 million profit: 14.4 million profit: 10.7 million 3 Order book: 588 million 3 Order book: 1,218 million 3 Order book: 294 million 1 1 1 4 Number of staff: 3,480 4 Number of staff: 4,832 4 Number of staff: 2,671 1 No.
of individuals employed as at 31 July 2008.
Mouchel at a Glance 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 02 Mouchel Group plc Highways partnership with our clients.
This ranges from key decisions on policy Mouchels Highways business provides design and management and strategy to procurement, technology delivery and managing services that keep traffic flowing on the streets in our towns and cities change.
Across all of these markets and services we provide project and on some of our busiest motorways.
We provide a broad portfolio of and programme management to ensure improvements are secured services to support our clients at every stage in the process of planning, to the required time, quality and budget levels.
design, construction, operation, maintenance and renewal.
GBS was created through the integration of Mouchels local We are number one in our field in Britain and acknowledged experts government stream and the former HBS business, acquired by in the newer technologies that are increasingly employed to increase Mouchel in August 2007. capacity and to control the way in which the public uses the road system.
We work for clients who include Transport for London TfL, GBS is responsible for delivering a series of large-scale, multi-functional, the Scottish Executive and the Roads Service in Northern Ireland.
long-term partnerships with local authorities up and down the country, including in Liverpool, Oldham, Bath, Lincolnshire, Rochdale, Milton Mouchel is responsible for managing the maintenance of around Keynes and Middlesbrough.
Each involves a different balance and range 43% of the Highways Agencys network in England and 42% of the of services, but typically includes transformation, property, ICT, corporate trunk road network in Scotland.
Local and regional roads are managed services, highways, customer services and revenues and benefits.
by local authorities and we have Highways-led commissions in 26 English counties and boroughs, six Scottish local authorities and GBS is also transforming teaching and learning environments through 12 local roads authorities in Ireland.
our work with local government in the City Academy and Building Schools for the Future programmes.
Here our combined expertise Mouchel is at the cutting edge of technology and managed service in property, educational services, ICT and programme management developments in parking and congestion management.
Our highway is what adds most value.
design team is involved in project management for what is currently the UKs largest new road scheme, in Northern Ireland.
Regulated Industries The Regulated Industries business is focused on the water, waste, Government Services energy, and rail sectors.
We work with every major water company Government Services comprises our Management Consulting and in the UK, with Network Rail and with London Underground.
We Government and Business Services GBS streams, which employ support waste disposal authorities and independent energy providers around 500 and 4,300 staff respectively.
to introduce new, more sustainable technologies and processes.
Our environmental planning and sustainability business, together with The Management Consulting business works with clients across the our land information management operations, continue to innovate public sector, regulated industries and commercial suppliers to the in carbon management and in the improvement of land information public sector.
Our aim is to become the consultancy of choice for resources for public sector users.
transformation, service improvement and project delivery for our clients.
This business was enlarged substantially through the acquisition of In rail, we provide consulting and technology services ranging from Hedra plc in March 2008. structures examination work to signalling upgrades and passenger information systems.
Mouchel works with clients ranging from HM Treasury and the Cabinet Office to local authorities, education delivery agents, the NHS and Regulated Industries also incorporates Mouchels international Thames Water: we also work with the supply chain for the defence operations.
These are primarily centred on the Gulf States in the industry and with a range of clients in the private sector.
We provide Middle East and involve a mix of infrastructure planning, design advisory support and increasingly take responsibility for delivery in and project and programme management.
Mouchel at a Glance 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 03 Mouchel Group plc
