Business review At a glance An overview of our estate.
Leased estate Managed estate 7,560 Pubs 864 Pubs The creation of eight enlarged operating regions Our operating structure has continued to evolve from the previous 12 has enabled us to deliver to provide greater local support for the Spirit greater support to our licensees through an managed estate through a regional structure expanded team of specialist consultants within whilst maintaining the drive on our core trading each region.
The transfer of 20 pubs from our concepts to provide the right offer to our customers managed estate and a small number of individual in the right location across the business.
We have purchases and sales during the year has enabled spent 67 million on improving our estate through us to maintain a high quality estate.
The size and investments, to maintain and improve our properties diversity of our estate, along with the opportunities and also the customer experience in our pubs.
it presents for our licensees to innovate is fundamental to our continued success.
During the Quality Food 138 pubs year 69 million has been invested in our estate Our premium dining experience includes the renowned Chef & Brewer concept enabling our licensees to maximise the potential which provides a quality dining experience of their pubs.
Chef & Brewer menus have been developed to deliver Number greater choice to consumers who want local Region of pubs options as well as fresh and healthy produce.
1 1,019 2 1,081 3 871 Value Food 213 pubs 4 815 It continues to be increasingly important to 5 800 provide true value to consumers.
Our Value 6 1,078 Food concepts, which include the Two for One offer, provide families with affordable, 7 813 everyday dining with healthy choices for 8 1,083 children.
The 73 award winning Wacky Warehouse play barns aligned to this concept provide that extra reason for families to visit.
Locals 310 pubs Our Local pubs play a large and increasingly 1 important role in their communities, whether in town centres, the suburbs or in rural areas.
Offering great value food and drink, the local pub continues to provide a community focus 2 for families, teams, fundraising and events.
3 4 5 City 165 pubs Our City pubs have real British heritage and are in prime locations throughout London and other 6 major cities.
They deliver the traditional pub 7 8 experience for local residents, tourists and business people.
Generally located in landmark venues these pubs deliver food and drink in a truly cosmopolitan environment with award winning cask ales.
02 Note 38 pubs do not fall into our four concepts www.
