This phase also Exceptional items in the year totalled to The effective tax rate before exceptional The Group believes it is well placed to as follows: a net charge of nil to operating profit items was 28.0% 2007: 29.0%.
includes the upgrade of the logistical counter the above given that: and distribution facilities at the Ilupeju in the consolidated income statement Construction of the new Innovation comprising the following: DIVIDEND site to cater for the growth of the a significant proportion of revenues Centre in manchester, at a total cost electricals business which is located The board is recommending a dividend are derived from international markets, of 26 million, is on schedule.
Phase Operating costs of 3.3 million in increase of 10% for the year with a there.
Phase two will see 21 million and in particular Nigeria, which one which is the upgrade and transfer invested in upgrading the soaps and relation to a restructuring of the UK proposed final dividend of 3.625p 2007: are much less affected by the global of the manufacturing facilities from business associated with the relocation 3.27p per share for a total of 4.70p detergents production facilities at the credit crunch the existing manufacturing site is well Ikorodu site and at our site in Aba in of manufacturing from the existing 2007: 4.27p.
our local brands for local markets underway with the first production site, made up of redundancy and other the east of Nigeria.
The investment strategy enables greater flexibility in now commenced at the new site.
programme has now commenced and associated restructuring costs.
OUTLOOK renovating product portfolios to Transfer of the remaining production Overall performance since the year end the total expenditure of 39 million support changing local conditions will take place before the end of the will be incurred over the next three Operating income of 2.1 million from has been in line with expectations our manufacturing is generally calendar year.
Phase two which is the the sale of the UK manufacturing site although the Group remains conscious financial years.
located close to the market of sale construction of a new research and in manchester.
of the external environment and in thus minimising the impact of rising development centre together with the particular: PEOPLE transport costs transfer of the fragrance production During the year, an Operational Board Operating costs of 4.4 million in our strong balance sheet with a small facility from Ellesmere Port will be relation to a significant restructuring the continuing increases in raw material was formed to support the Plc board net debt funding position, together completed early in 2009. in the operational management of of the Africa businesses Project Unity, and other input costs such as utilities with positive cashflow, still allows scope made up of redundancy and other and fuel: the Groups businesses and to enable to fund other growth opportunities as During the year the Group announced further growth opportunities to be associated restructuring costs.
general global inflationary pressures they arise a major investment programme to together with high interest rates: and pursued.
The team comprises two upgrade its Nigerian manufacturing commercial Area Director roles and Operating income of 5.6 million from the uncertain economic situation in In summary, the Group looks to the facilities to world-class standards.
a curtailment gain due to the closure the UK and the potential consequences six functional heads covering hR, year ahead with cautious optimism and Phase one of the investment known Finance, supply Chain, Innovation, of the UK based defined benefit pension of reduced consumer spending power a continued focus on its strategy of internally as Project Unity will see schemes on 31st may 2008. and the impact on the major retailers.
Corporate services and New Business selected markets, leading brands and 18 million invested in the upgrade of Development.
The team is made first class distribution driven by a great the health and beauty production up of both internal promotions and team of people.
facilities which will relocate from our external recruits from a variety of central Lagos site at Ilupeju to our international companies.
These items have been disclosed separately in the Groups consolidated income statement, while a definition of exceptional items is given in note 1 to the financial statements.
08 Annual Report 2008 fINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS fINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Annual Report 2008 09
