QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business at a glance Our business at a glance continued Our business at a glance We create value by delivering inspired solutions to the important problems faced by business, governments and society, utilising our extensive experience, skills and capabilities in the field of science and technology.
QinetiQ Ventures QinetiQ North America QinetiQ EMEA QinetiQ Ventures is the pipeline through which we manage our portfolio of emerging technologies, providing new solutions and services for the future.
QinetiQ generates Intellectual Property IP from customer-funded research and development work and other services provided to our core defence and security customers.
In certain circumstances, this IP is available for use in alternative applications outside our core markets.
QinetiQ unlocks value from IP through routes including organic growth, partnering with third parties, IP licensing and business realisations.
Key points from 2008 n Creation of a new technology venture fund with Coller Capital to accelerate the development and realisation of seven of QinetiQs venture investments n Development of a high-power camera system which enhances the capability of the Tarsier runway foreign object debris detection system.
QinetiQ North America has quickly established EMEA Europe, Middle East and Australasia 40% 60% itself as a major provider of technology-based is focused on providing services to the defence, solutions and services to customers primarily security and energy & environment markets.
Our employees work Operating in these sectors requires our employees Share of 2008 Group revenue Share of 2008 Group revenue Designed and produced by salterbaxter in partnership with our customers to develop to adapt their capabilities to meet the changing Picture credits: world-class technology and responsive solutions needs of our customer base, particularly as we Feature photography: Liam Bailey UK, Eric Anderson US 41% 58% that meet the challenges of national defence, move into new territories such as Australia.
Board photography: Patrick Harrison p25 airport iStockphoto.
com ALiJA homeland security, communication and 5,699 8,209 p25 arrivals board iStockphoto.
com Jorgen Udvang information access.
Number of employees Number of employees p33 test munition: MOD p34 well perforation: GeoDynamics p36 James Brown: Paul Drane p36 laptop: Getty Sean Russell Our core capabilities Key points from 2008 Our core capabilities Key points from 2008 p37 plane landing on runway: Getty Noeru Takizawa n n Technology Solutions: Delivering high-technology research Continued growth in technology business fuelled by demand Managed Services: Work on behalf of clients delivering Growth in services delivered to UK MOD revenue up 2.5% p38 satellite iStockphoto.
com Cristian Matei services and development of defence and security-related for the TALON robot independent expertise to enable them to meet their challenges p49 Morgan car: Morgan n Restructuring to align business on four focused products to the US defence, civilian government and p49 rubbish heap iStockphoto.
com Roger Milley n Strong organic growth in Systems Engineering Consulting: Technical advice provided by high-quality consultants offerings to drive growth: Managed Services, Consulting, commercial markets.
with deep technical knowledge and domain experience Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies n Successful integration of 13 acquisitions since 2004 and the Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Systems Engineering: Providing independent procurement n development of a trusted QinetiQ brand in North America Integrated Systems: Supplies integrated systems, sub-systems or Restructuring designed to provide sustainable margin services, systems engineering, education training and support technology to meet the specific challenges our customers face improvement through business efficiency n Printed on Hello Matt, which is produced using wood fibre from fully sustainable Positions established on major acquisition contracts including for the development, modification, fielding and sustainment with their information, mission or platform solutions forests in Europe, Canada, the USA and Chile, with FSC certification.
All pulps used n EAGLE and ENCORE II and selection for Alliant Reconfirmed our position as a trusted supplier of defence of military equipment.
are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded Applied Technologies: Delivers a range of solutions to managed services through agreement of the scope n Scale and brand recognition leading to larger contract wins, IT Services: Providing information technology services, the ISO 14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the our customers toughest problems through the repeatable and pricing of the second five-year term of the 25-year such as for the $190m NASA environmental test and integrated FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified including computer systems integration, network engineering application of technology, fuelled by research.
MOD Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA and progression services ETIS programme and the $100m US Army Sample in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
and operations, IT architectures and software development.
of the UK Defence Training Rationalisation DTR bid Data Collection programme.
Mission Solutions: Delivering software, enterprise systems n Commenced geographic expansion in selected overseas engineering and integration and other consulting services markets, starting with Australia requiring specialised customer mission knowledge.
n MOD research continued success on competed programmes.
