The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 02 At a glance Frankie & Bennys Chiquito Garfunkels Blubeckers With its unique blend of sizzling After trading successfully in the Blubeckers mixes the best of the An unbeatable combination of Mexican and Tex-Mex food, UKs most competitive locations past with the best of the present classic American and traditional refreshing margaritas and friendly for 30 years, Garfunkels provides to create a welcoming pub Italian dishes.
service, Chiquito delivers a esta the reassurance of a familiar face, restaurant you can enjoy every for everyone.
well-known for its quality of day, more than 20 locations in the One of the UKs most popular service, great menu choice and South of England.
family restaurant brands, Frankie Entering its 20th year with over affordable prices.
& Bennys trades successfully in 60 UK outlets, Chiquito delivers a Open all day, you can pop in for leisure, retail and airport locations sunny, spicy extravaganza served The menu features favourite dishes a pint of real ale and a pie at the nationwide.
up in a fun and lively atmosphere.
from around the globe, including bar or have a glass of wine and a range of steaks, burgers, pasta, a steak in our comfortable Frankie & Bennys brings together There are burritos, chilli, nachos, chicken, grills, omelettes and the restaurant areas.
Theres friendly, the best of classic Americanwraps and tacos and the famous salad bar.
engaging service from the Italian style cuisine.
Alongside famous sizzling fajitas, smoking moment you arrive, ensuring that favourites including char-grilled on a redhot skillet!
Or you can Whether you want coffee and all your needs are taken care of.
burgers, steaks, pizza and pasta enjoy the Texas BBQ ribs, juicy a pastry, breakfast, lunch, a light are house specialities such as burgers or steaks.
The Kids Menu snack, afternoon tea, dinner or Our chefs use the best quality chicken parmigiana and BBQ ribs.
offers a wide range of less spicy just a relaxing drink while you ingredients to prepare a menu that dishes.
watch the world go by, you will combines traditional favourites Inside, Frankie & Bennys has the always receive a warm welcome with world in uences.
Seasonal atmosphere of a favourite The bar showcases signature at Garfunkels.
specials regularly feature, but our family-run restaurant.
From the margaritas, classic tequilas and signature burger and ribs remain clear view of the open kitchen to cocktails alongside refreshing constants on the menu since the bottle lined bar, it takes you ice-cold beers and soft drinks.
we opened our doors for the first back to 1950s New York.
a seat in a cosy booth and look Stylish interiors and lively Latin at the family snapshots showing American music add to the life in the Lower East Side of the atmosphere, whether you visit Big Apple whilst listening to a lazy lunch, an exciting evening classic 50s American swing.
Investing in businesses that perform
