Rexam at a glance Our strategy Our vision is to be the leading global We aim to deliver our vision by focusing on providing ever better consumer packaging company, consistently packaging solutions and outstanding product innovation for our customers: leading the industry in terms of execution and operational delivering pro table growth and margin excellence, whilst operating to the highest standards of safety: improvement year on year.
establishing or strengthening positions in carefully chosen consumer packaging segments and the right geographic markets, growing organically or by prudent acquisition within these segments: and To achieve our goal, we need to be the recognising and rewarding our people.
partner of choice for our customers, the Our geographic markets company of choice for investors and the Rexam is headquartered in London, UK.
We have around 100 plants in more than 20 countries in the four corners of the world.
employer of choice for our people.
In 2008, we employed on average 24,100 people in our continuing operations, almost a quarter of whom were in China and South East Asia.
Rexam global locations Sales by destination from continuing operations 2008 2008 2007 m m US 1,825 1,450 Other Europe 1,064 866 Brazil 460 361 US Russia 314 131 Other Europe UK 204 195 Brazil France 181 162 Russia Germany 154 107 UK Rest of world 416 339 France 4,618 3,611 Germany Rest of world 2 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Beverage Cans 66% Plastic Packaging 34% of underlying operating pro t 2008 of underlying operating pro t 2008 Rexam is the worlds number one beverage Plastic Packaging focuses primarily on the can maker.
value added and faster growing segments of rigid plastic packaging.
It comprises a Our cans are used for a wide array of portfolio of three world class, customer facing beverages including beer, carbonated soft divisions of broadly similar size: Healthcare, drinks, juices, sports and energy drinks, Closures and Personal Care.
The portfolio water, wine and spirit mixers.
New includes pharmaceutical packaging, closures applications such as iced tea and coffee for beverages and personal care applications and functional drinks are using the can to and packaging for cosmetics, home and open up new markets.
personal care products as well as food.
Our Beverage Cans business is essentially Plastic Packaging offers its customers a global a regional business operating on a global manufacturing and sales capability.
It shares common can making divisions are united by a number of shared technologies and a common desire for customers, common injection moulding and continuous improvement through the sharing other technologies, and a focus on intellectual of best practices.
In general our plants are property, innovation and operational located close to our customers to minimise excellence.
Products include spray samplers, lipstick and mascara cases, compacts, closures for fragrances, lotions and beverages, ne mist and foam pumps, high barrier food containers and sophisticated drug delivery devices.
