The group at a glance Over the past 20 years we have grown rapidly from our original South African base into a global operation, developing a balanced and attractive portfolio of businesses.
Our markets range from developed economies such as the USA to fast-growing developing markets such as China and India.
com Key highlights Latin America Europe 200 More than 200 brands owned 139 Our primary brewing and beverage Our primary brewing operations cover Total number of breweries operations cover six countries.
These are the Canary are Colombia, El Salvador, Ecuador, Islands Spain, Czech Republic, Honduras, Panama and Peru.
We are Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, Russia, the number one brewer, in terms of Slovakia and The Netherlands.
In the 69,116 market share, in each of these countries.
majority of these countries we are the number one or two brewer.
Total average number We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola Company in El Salvador and Honduras We also have significant import of employees and for Pepsico International in Panama businesses in the UK and Germany and Bolivia.
In 2007 we entered the where we import our international Puerto Rico market with our international premium brands.
239 million Total volume of lager sold hectolitres 25% 23% Contribution to group EBITA 2008 Contribution to group EBITA 2008 17 21 Total number of breweries Total number of breweries 16 Total number of bottling plants 25,389 12,921 Total average number of employees Total average number of employees Top selling brands Top selling brands Key local lager brands include: Key local lager brands include: Aguila: Atlas: Balboa: Barena: Arany Aszok: Dbowe Mocne: Dorada: Cristal: Club: Club Colombia: Costea: Dreher: Gambrinus: Grolsch: Kozel: Cusquea: Pilsen Callao: Golden Light: Lech: Nastro Azzurro: Pilsner Urquell: Pilsen: Poker: Pilsener: Port Royal and Peroni: ari: Radegast: Timisoreana Lux: Salva Vida Topvar: Tropical: Tyskie: Ursus: Zolotaya Bochka and Zubr For more information see pages 24-25 For more information see pages 25-26 See note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Volumes are defined in the Definitions section on page 148.
2 The group at a glance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information North America Africa and Asia South Africa Miller Brewing Company is the second In Africa, our primary brewing and beverage The South African Breweries Ltd SAB largest brewer in the US market the operations cover 31 countries and we are Ltd is our original brewing company.
beer market with the worlds biggest the number one brewer in terms of market Founded in 1895, SAB Ltd has since profit pool.
Through more than 150 years share in most of these countries.
In 12 of become one of South Africas leading of innovation and brewing excellence, these countries we have management companies as well as Africas largest Miller has built a portfolio of awardcontrol, while in the others we have a brewer.
The soft drinks division of SAB winning beers.
Miller Chill, one of its strategic alliance with Castel and a minority Ltd is South Africas largest producer of newest brands, was the most successful shareholding in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
products for The Coca-Cola Company.
new product introduction in the US beer We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola SABMiller has hotel and gaming interests industry last year.
Company in 20 of our African markets.
through the Tsogo Sun Group, one of the Miller has licensed production in Canada CR Snow, our partnership with China largest hotel and gaming groups in South and distribution in Mexico.
Resources Enterprise Limited, is the largest Africa.
The group was created in 2003 brewer by volume in China, and we are the when SABMiller and Tsogo Investments second largest brewer in India.
We have merged their activities.
At the time, it was a joint venture in Vietnam with Vinamilk the largest empowerment transaction in and we also sell our premium brands in the sector and SABMiller holds a 49% Australia through a joint venture with interest in the group.
11% 14% 27% Contribution to group EBITA 2008 Contribution to group EBITA 2008 Contribution to group EBITA 2008 8 86 7 Total number of breweries Total number of breweries Total number of breweries 12 7 Total number of bottling plants Total number of bottling plants 5,991 12,806 11,749 Total average number of employees Total average number of employees Total average number of employees Top selling brands Top selling brands Top selling brands Key local lager brands include: Key local lager brands include: Key local brands include: Miller Lite: Miller Chill, Miller Genuine 2M: Castle Lager: Castle Milk Stout: Carling Black Label: Castle Lager: Draft: Miller High Life: Milwaukees Chibuku sorghum : Club: Club Pilsner: Castle Lite: Castle Milk Stout: Hansa Best and Leinenkugels Eagle clear sorghum : Fosters: Marzen Gold: Hansa Pilsener: Redds: Haywards: Laurentina: Kilimanjaro: Brutal Fruit: Sarita and Skelters Straight Manica: Mosi: Nduvo: Ngola: Nile Special: Royal Challenge: Safari: Snow: Stone: St Louis and Zorok For more information see pages 26-27 For more information see pages 27-28 For more information see pages 28-29 The group at a glance 3 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
