Group at a glance The group operates through strategic business segments: Sugar & Agriculture: Retail: Grocery and Ingredients.
Retail Primark 2,134m Primark is a major value retail group Buying and merchandising teams in Revenue employing over 25,500 people.
Reading UK and Dublin Republic It operates stores in the UK, Ireland of Ireland travel internationally to and Spain.
source and buy up-to-the-minute fashion items that best reflect each 186m Targeted at the fashion conscious seasons key fashion trends.
Primarks under 35s, Primark offers customers Adjusted range of departments includes high-quality merchandise at value operating profit womenswear, lingerie, childrenswear, for money prices, backed by its menswear, footwear, accessories, service promise.
Primark prides itself hosiery and homeware.
on its loyal customer base.
26% % of total revenue Sugar & Agriculture Sugar, Europe British Sugars UK beet sugar factories produce over one million tonnes of sugar annually.
Its factory in Poland is that countrys largest, producing more than 200,000 tonnes of sugar annually.
Sugar, China We have majority interests in four cane 1,933m sugar factories in Guangxi Province and Revenue 12 beet sugar operations in the north east of the country.
Continuous investment has raised annual sugar production to more than 750,000 tonnes.
233m Adjusted Sugar, southern Africa Illovo is Africas largest sugar producer operating profit with agricultural and production facilities in six countries.
Annual sugar output is 1.8 million tonnes produced 24% from 5.5 million tonnes of sugar cane.
% of total Agriculture revenue AB Agri sells animal feeds and feed micro-ingredients to farmers and purchases grain and oilseeds from them.
It has facilities in the UK and China and markets products in over 40 countries worldwide.
2 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements Grocery Hot beverages and sugar World Foods World Foods comprises our authentic and sweeteners Twinings and Ovaltine comprise pan-Asian food brands, Pataks and Blue Dragon.
our global hot beverages business.
We are market leaders in UK sugar Herbs and spices with Silver Spoon and Billingtons.
We are a leading US producer of herbs and spices through the Tones, Spice Vegetable oils In the US, Mazola is the leader in Islands and Durkee brands.
In Mexico, Capullo Meat and dairy leads the premium canola oil sector.
In Australia we supply sausages, Bread, baked goods and cereals hams, salami and dairy products under strong regional brands.
We produce Jordans cereals in the UK and leading bakery brands, Kingsmill, Ryvita, Tip Top and Noble Rise in the UK and Australia.
842m Revenue 75m Adjusted operating profit 10% % of total revenue 3,254m Revenue 194m Ingredients Adjusted Yeast and bakery ingredients operating profit AB Mauri operates globally in yeast and bakery ingredient production with 43 plants in 28 countries, 40% supplying plant and artisanal bakers and the foodservice and wholesale % of total channels.
It is the technology revenue leader in bread improvers, dough conditioners and bakery mixes.
Speciality ingredients ABF Ingredients focuses on highvalue ingredients for food and non-food applications.
It is an international supplier to plant and artisanal bakers and the foodservice and wholesale channels.
The group has strong market positions in cereal specialities, enzymes, extruded ingredients, lactose, lipids, flours, yeast extracts and whey protein isolates and concentrates.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
