1 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Opportunities to increase value Smiths has opportunities to create value for shareholders by improving performance and growing our businesses.
Taking advantage Expand our of opportunities margins through Self help is taking many forms at Smiths.
To improve efficiency a programme of and remove a layer of self help management the Smiths Specialty Engineering division has been disbanded.
To improve customer focus, operating divisions headquarters are relocating from London to be close to their operations.
To reduce costs and improve lines of accountability the corporate centre has been halved in size, focusing its activities where it can add value.
To improve service levels and deliver the necessary data and information a new Global IT Service Delivery organisation has been created.
Expanding capacity for Support top-line airport checkpoint systems growth by Over the past year, Smiths Detection has deployed new increasing checkpoint X-ray machines that manufacturing and for the first time automatically detect explosives and liquids in service capacity carry-on bags.
Now located in most major UK airports, these aTiX systems are being rolled out in the USA and globally.
To achieve the necessary manufacturing capacity to meet this demand, the Smiths Detection facility in Wiesbaden, Germany, has been expanded substantially.
In less than 12 months, the team has designed and completed an extension dedicated to the production of new equipment such as the aTiX system.
2 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Building capacity in Asia Create top-line Flex-Tek is broadening its growth by footprint in Asia, where its existing plant in Malaysia expanding activity continues to expand.
Over the in developing past year it has added to this with new manufacturing markets facilities in Bangalore, India, in the Clark Special Economic Zone, Philippines and Changzhou, China.
The facilities in India and Philippines are aimed at better serving its aerospace customers, following increased demand due to the growth of air traffic in Asia.
The facility in Changzhou is focused on the growing HVAC and household appliance market in China.
Creating one global Deliver efficiencies John Crane by restructuring A project launched in June 2008 is bringing together the two our organisation geographic John Crane and using our organisations.
Unifying John Crane with a head office scale more located in Morton Grove, US effectively will enhance performance and improve customer service, while implementing a truly global product portfolio.
The leadership team is creating an organisation that can more effectively deliver state-of-the-art solutions anywhere in the world.
In this way John Crane has the capacity to provide customers with a global operations platform, assuring rapid delivery of products while improving service support capabilities.
3 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Expanding in the worlds Grow our major telecoms market technology and Some 70% of the worlds wireless telecommunications geographic infrastructure equipment is footprint through manufactured in China.
To expand its footprint in the region, bolt-on Smiths Interconnect acquired acquisitions Allrizon, a Shanghai-based communications equipment firm.
Allrizon together with Triasx an Australian based business also with Chinese operations and acquired recently complement and extend Smiths Interconnects microwave business.
They add not only Chinese manufacturing capacity but also strong design teams and good relationships with key wireless telecoms infrastructure customers.
Developing new medical Drive growth products in our technology Smiths Medical is increasing R&D in order to boost new businesses by product development.
investing in With a strong pipeline in place, new products are reaching targeted R&D the market.
Recent innovations include UniPerc, a unique tracheostomy tube designed for patients with larger necks a problem increasingly faced by clinicians due to rising obesity levels among patients.
When it comes to delivering medication, the new Medfusion 4000 system helps to treat patients with cancer and painful conditions.
It features wireless connectivity to enable clinicians to monitor the performance of the machine remotely.
