6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc At a glance Meet Spirax Sarco Spirax Sarco steam business Spirax Sarco is a UK-based multi-national engineering The steam business comprises 85% of total Group revenues.
company tightly focused on its two niche businesses of As a heat source, steam is the natural choice in most industrial steam system specialties and peristaltic pumping in which processes due to its high heat-carrying capacity, controllability, we are the world market leaders.
We support our customers sterility and efficiency as a heat transfer medium.
With our around the world with sales and manufacturing operations specialist knowledge, technical expertise, range of products, on all continents, and are able to provide same-day prefabricated engineered packages and site services, as well delivery in most parts of the world for the products and as our global spread in local markets, Spirax Sarco is uniquely services our customers demand.
positioned to provide a broad range of engineering solutions to We have a worldwide network of outstanding local direct the many industries using steam.
They have been trained to provide the We assist our customers to improve the efficiency of their knowledge and expertise that enable us to understand the process heating, increase the output of the process, reduce challenges facing steam and pump users better than any running costs most notably energy consumption and to lower of our competitors.
Because of our application knowledge, their emissions.
Our direct sales force is trained extensively long experience and global presence, we are able to offer in product application, system design and troubleshooting.
the most extensive range of engineered solutions to Spirax Sarco can provide complete turnkey bespoke packages our customers whilst delivering market-leading service including design, fabrication, installation, commissioning and standards.
maintenance: creating a one-stop shop approach.
Our continued focus on developing the business to Our customers continue to face high fuel costs, pressure to achieve market share gains, along with geographic improve the efficiency of their processes and the need for expansion, new product developments, acquisitions and compliance to new safety, environmental and health legislation.
an expanded range of products has enabled Spirax Sarco Our products, expertise and experience mean we are uniquely to generate steady, profitable growth for a long period able to focus on providing the most cost-effective solutions to of time, evidenced by our excellent 40 years dividend our customers.
The Group continues to operate with a strong balance sheet.
"The business is highly cash generative and we consistently achieve a high return on capital employed. """
"over 40 years of dividend record "" Watson-Marlow peristaltic pump business The Watson-Marlow pump business comprises 15% of Group revenues."
The unique properties of peristaltic pumps make them ideal for difficult pumping applications.
They are highly accurate and controllable, and virtually maintenance-free, making them a very cost-effective solution.
Watson-Marlow are specialists not only in the manufacture of the best and most advanced peristaltic pumps, but also in the application of those pumps to customers processes.
Watson-Marlow is the global leader in peristaltic pumping and supplies products and systems to cover a wide range of flow rates and applications.
Operating a make-toorder manufacturing system and uniquely extruding our own pump tubing, Watson-Marlow has the leading position in the supply of peristaltic pumps to the biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, waste water treatment, mining and food industries.
"The peristaltic pumping market is a small part of the global pump market, but it is "" steam is used in a one of the fastest growing segments."
"broad range of industries "" At a glance Chairman's statement Business review Board of Directors Directors' report Financial statements Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 Steam is used in almost all processes, from curing and Delivering customer value dying in a textile plant: to thermal cracking of crude oil in We go to market using mostly direct sales people."
In doing a refinery: to the moulding of tyres: to tight temperature so we form strong, long-term customer relationships.
The control for consistent brewing flavour.
We have broadened company employs more than 1,300 direct sales and service our range of products, applications, prefabricated people working in more than 33 countries in the world.
engineered packages and site services to address changing Our sales and service engineers are trained to understand customer needs as they outsource more of their design applications in a comprehensive range of industries, to and maintenance activities.
analyse customer problems and then to supply the solution Our traditional product markets such as steam traps, through the application of our products, prefabricated pressure controls and steam piping ancillaries, have packages and services.
They are highly trained in our always formed the foundation of our steam business and 38 training centres around the world, most of which are are the building blocks of our solutions approach.
This equipped with live steam that facilitates hands-on training.
will remain the case for the foreseeable future.
However, These centres are used to train both our own people as our prefabricated engineered solutions that typically well as our customers technical staff.
We also provide an incorporate heat transfer technology, on-site auditing extensive range of technical materials available on our services and new products in controls and clean steam, are websites.
seeing good growth and are increasingly important to our Our sales people are highly skilled in not only product strategic ambitions.
applications but, perhaps even more importantly, also in We continue to expand the available pump market for systems understanding and troubleshooting for unique peristaltics by innovations in pump designs and tubing customer applications and industrial processes.
This to broaden the range of applications.
This creates an product and systems application knowledge combined with expanding market in the application of peristaltic pumping.
local availability of products and on-site services enable our customers to achieve meaningful energy savings, comply with increasingly stringent health, environmental Global spread and safety regulations, reduce emissions and achieve more The Group is surprisingly international for its size and is efficient processes.
Today we have 49 operating It is not the products alone that provide the value to our companies in 33 countries around the world and maintain customers, it is the application of our extensive knowledge.
Despite being based in the UK, less than 10% of 2008 sales were destined for UK customers.
We have a large presence in Europe Good opportunities for 38% of 2008 sales, North America 19% of 2008 sales continued sales growth and Asia also 19% of 2008 sales.
We also have sizeable Our business strategy is focused on achieving long-term, operations in South America, Australasia and Africa.
Our steady and profitable sales growth.
The steam industry manufacturing operations are strategically located in all around the world is very fragmented, with many local or key market regions with major facilities located in the UK, regional competitors.
Despite our market-leading positions, France, Italy, USA, Brazil, Argentina, and China.
We also we have a relatively small market share of the total available manufacture in South Africa, Mexico, Netherlands, India, market and good opportunities remain for continued sales Germany, Sweden, Korea and Denmark.
our manufacturing footprint in Asia to better match the growing sales opportunities.
190m Continental Europe 38% 49m UK 10% 96m North America 19% 97m Asia 19% 70m Rest of World 14% Large manufacturing sites: UK, USA, France, Italy, China, Group companies and sales ofces Brazil and Argentina Distributors Other manufacturing sites: Mexico, Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, South Africa, India, Korea and Denmark
