16 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Business review Business review Business highlights Business highlights Caledonias reputation and successful TGE Marine long term record has been built upon two principles that we believe set us apart.
We have a long term investment horizon, TGE Marine formerly TGE Gas Engineering is a gas engineering underpinned by a strong balance sheet business based in Germany.
We facilitated the management buyout from Suez Group in early 2006, supporting the original founder of and stable ownership structure.
the business and his management team.
We were attracted to this investment by the quality of the management team, who have spent This enables the management teams twenty years together building the business, and by the growth we back to pursue their strategies, prospects in the oil and gas support services sector.
One of TGE Marines areas of expertise is with liquefied natural gas LNG, a fast confident that we are able to resist growing sector of the industry.
During the year, TGE Marine took short term market pressures.
its first order for a small scale LNG carrier and has high hopes for the future.
This will complement its strong position in the ethylene carrier market.
We seek a close involvement with As at 31 March 2008, Caledonia had invested 19.2m in TGE management through board Marine.
After selling its onshore business, TGE Marine completed a successful IPO on AIM in mid-May 2008.
We have retained a 35% representation and strong and stake in the business, in line with our long term investment philosophy.
This leads to a clear understanding of the objectives and motivations of our management partners and enables us to help them realise their goals.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 17 Caledonias involvement and supportive stance as a long term investor is ideally suited to companies with ambitious, longer term growth plans.
Oval Avanti Communications Oval is one of the UKs leading commercial insurance brokers Avanti is in the process of designing and building an 80m satellite specialising in providing risk management and financial services its first in conjunction with Astrium and the European Space advice to corporate and owner managed businesses.
The Hylas I is scheduled for launch in the first quarter of 2009 is to grow its business substantially through the acquisition of quality and will deliver broadband and corporate data network services using regional broking businesses and developing strong and profitable Ka-band across Europe.
relationships with leading insurance providers to Ovals market.
The long term nature of Avantis satellite project, with the Since we invested in 2003, we have worked very closely with prospect of substantial returns and further projects, ideally suits management at Oval to implement this strategy both through Caledonias investment style.
We invested 10.0m in equity in 2005 providing further capital and working at board level to strengthen and a further 5.6m to date, increasing our holding to 24.4%.
In and develop the team as the business grows.
addition, in July 2007, we provided 7.0m as part of Avantis 35m Over the last year especially, we have seen this effort bear fruit.
debt-raising, to complete funding of the satellite development.
Oval made a number of acquisitions and had positioned itself by the Avanti also has an established satellite-based broadband end of the year for continued strong growth through a healthy business, renting space and selling and managing corporate data pipeline of further acquisitions, with additional funding from networks and wholesale broadband services to retailers, as well as Caledonia, through a 15m convertible loan stock facility, and from a consultancy business advising companies and governments an insurance investor.
on the design and commercialisation of space technology.
Avanti The UK commercial insurance broking sector has recently seen a has recently been chosen to lead the UK Governments project to lot of takeover and investment activity and Oval is well placed as the demonstrate the role of satellite communications in road user charging.
leading independently owned broking business in the sector.
18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report We have taken a cautious approach Business review to investing this year, but have still found a number of new and follow-on opportunities.
Business highlights London & Stamford Property Retif London & Stamford Property is a recently launched, Guernsey-based Retif operates over 150 cash and carry stores selling equipment and and AIM listed property investment company that aims to benefit consumables to retail stores.
The chain is primarily based in France from the currently depressed property markets.
It plans to invest but also has operations in Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg in commercial property, including office, retail and distribution and the UK.
Retif carries a comprehensive range of over 7,000 real estate assets, principally in the UK, but also overseas, where products, including display units and shelving as well as decoration, it believes opportunities exist to extract above-average returns.
packaging, stationery, cleaning and labelling products.
London & Stamford Property will be an active investor and intends The business expects to continue its strong track record of to implement strategies to enhance the quality and value of acquired growth by rolling out its well-established retail formula and to make assets and improve annual rental values.
The management team has further acquisitions in promising European markets.
a strong track record, previously building and selling Arlington In September 2007, Caledonia invested 12.9m in equity Securities and Pillar Property.
and loans in the holding company to support a management In November 2007, Caledonia invested 19.5m for a 6.8% stake buyout of the business by a syndicate of private equity firms, led in London & Stamford Property and we hope to see this company by Pragma Capital.
build its portfolio over the next two to three years.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 19 Quintain Estates Serica Energy Quintain Estates is a leading property investment and development Serica Energy is an international oil and gas exploration and company, specialising in strategic property acquisition, production company with activities focussed on Western Europe redevelopment and asset management across the UK.
In addition and South East Asia.
Serica Energy has operations in the UK North to a large portfolio of properties and its fund management activities, Sea, Norway, Ireland, Spain, Indonesia and Vietnam and has built a Quintain Estates has projects at Wembley and the Greenwich portfolio of exploration, appraisal and development projects, striking Peninsular in London.
a balance between established hydrocarbon producing basins, where Quintain Estates controls over 70 acres of land surrounding the the chances of success are relatively high, and untested basins, where National Stadium at Wembley, with planning consent for 6.1m sq ft success is less certain but the potential rewards are more significant.
and potential for up to 8m sq ft. Quintain Estates has completed the Serica Energy is a publicly traded company, listed on the AIM refurbishment of the Grade II listed Wembley Arena Europes most Market in London and on the TSX Venture Exchange in Toronto.
As part of these refurbishment Caledonia first invested in Serica Energy in July 2006, soon after plans, the Arena has been re-orientated towards the Stadium, its listing in London and Toronto.
During the year ended 31 March opening onto a spectacular new square for London.
The 2008, we invested a further 9.8m, increasing our stake to 13.2%.
development will also feature office and commercial space, leisure and community facilities and a 450 room 5-star hotel.
Quintain Estates owns 18.5 acres of the Greenwich Peninsula and has the rights to develop 190 acres.
The 5bn, 20 year regeneration project will create a vibrant new urban district for London, providing 24,000 permanent new jobs and homes for 20,000 people.
The mixed-use development includes over 10,000 new dwellings, 3.5m sq ft of commercial space, 360,000 sq ft of retail, a hotel, open spaces and extensive community facilities.
All buildings will be designed and built to the highest current environmental standards.
Caledonia has been a supportive investor in Quintain Estates since 1994.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, we invested a further 27.5m to increase our stake to 10.0%.
