Highlights Although your Company in common with most funds with an income bias did not this year meet its capital objective, it has, over the last three years as a whole, achieved a total return of dividends received and share price growth of 38.8% this compares to 31.3% for the benchmark index and is greater than any other of its AIC UK Growth and Income peer group.
Scott Dobbie Performance Capital growth Net asset value NAV debt at par -14.8% NAV debt at market value -15.5% Share price -16.2% FTSE All-Share Index -10.8% Dividend growth 1 Dividends for the year 19.90 pence 5.6% Retail Price Index 3.8% Total return capital growth with income reinvested NAV debt at par -11.7% NAV debt at market value -12.3% Share price -12.6% FTSE All-Share Index -7.7% 1 Dividends paid and recommended in respect of the financial year Objectives and Investment Policy The Company invests in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving:- 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
The Company will generally invest only in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK or in those which are about to enter the FTSE All-Share Index.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company, as determined at the time of acquisition, may represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company will not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company borrows money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to a maximum of 200 million.
Use of derivative instruments is permitted within the following constraints and is monitored carefully by the Board.
The writing of covered calls, to a maximum of 10% of the value of the portfolio, is permitted and a maximum of 15% may be invested in FTSE 100 futures.
Other derivative contracts may be employed subject to an aggregate of the above limits and to the prior approval of the Board.
Page 2 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008
