com 1 Teenage Cancer Trust Annual Charity Teenage Cancer Trust, which is devoted to improving the lives of teenagers and young adults with cancer, received a donation from the Trust as Mans London Annual Charity for 2007 8.
In addition, employees took part in various volunteering and fundraising activities throughout the year.
1 2 Merlin The Trust donated to Merlin towards the Darfur region humanitarian response and towards emergency support for people displaced by the crisis in Kenya.
3 3 Co-ordinated Action Against Domestic Abuse 8 The Trust made a three year commitment to support CAADA in creating and evaluating a best practice 2 model to deal with domestic violence.
4 Every Child a Reader and Every Child Counts In addition to the 1 million pledged over three 11 years to the Every Child a Reader reading recovery 11 The Man Booker Prize programme last year, the Trust committed a further The Man Booker Prize 2007 was awarded to Anne Enright for 1 million over the next three years to Every Child The Gathering.
The prize was presented to Anne by Peter Counts, an initiative which aims to develop and Clarke at the Guildhall on the 16 October.
9 evaluate a national numeracy intervention programme.
The judging panel for the 2008 prize consists of Chair, Michael Portillo, former MP and Cabinet Minister: Alex Clark, literary 5 The Princes Rainforests Project journalist: Louise Doughty, novelist: James Heneage, founder The Princes Rainforests Project was set up in 2007 of Ottakars bookshops and Hardeep Singh Kohli, TV and by HRH The Prince of Wales to find practical solutions 45 radio broadcaster.
to slow tropical deforestation and climate change.
2008 sees the 40th anniversary of the Booker Prize now the Man Booker Prize for 6 Dyslexia Action Fiction.
To mark the occasion, a range of events and initiatives are planned throughout The Trust made a three year commitment to the year including a campaign to involve the reading public who will be asked to vote Dyslexia Action towards the Partnership for for the Best of the Booker Prize, to be awarded in July 2008.
Literacy programme, which helps to identify and 10 support dyslexia in children in primary school.
In June the Institute of Contemporary Arts will present a season of films The Booker at the Movies featuring films from Booker prize winning books and authors.
8 Saracens 7 Book Aid International Man Group sponsored Saracens Rugby We supported Book Aid International which In September, the V&A Museum is to host an exhibition telling the visual story of the Football Club.
promotes literacy in developing countries, creating prize over the years.
reading and learning opportunities to help 9 England Hockey The British Council is working towards the creation of an online collection of disadvantaged people realise their potential and Man is sponsoring England Hockey over the contemporary British literature and is in negotiation with publishers to include escape poverty.
next five years in the run up to 2012. former winners of the Booker Prize and Man Booker Prize as e-books.
10 London Youth Rowing The judging panel of the Man Booker International Prize for 2009 was announced in London Youth Rowing LYR was launched in March.
Chaired by writer Jane Smiley, this eminent international panel includes writer, East London during 2004 with the sponsorship academic and musician, Amit Chaudhuri, and writer, film script writer, and essayist, of Man.
Man divests Man moves to its Man lists on the With the demerger its brokerage current headquarters Man sets up its first London Stock of the commodities Man Group plc business Mans funds in Sugar Quay, close fully staffed overseas Man celebrates its Exchange, with business, the enters the FTSE 100 to focus as under to its previous offices operations, a JV in 200th anniversary Glenwood funds under Companys name with funds under a manager management in Harp Lane and New York and an and moves into and AHL management changes to Man management of of alternative reach Mincing Lane.
1949 1957 1972 1973 1977 1983 1986 1987 1994 1998 2000 2001 2002 2007 2008 A. W. Jones London Futures Market Chicago Board Big Bang takes Russian financial 10,000 hedge funds established in reopens: London of Trade introduces place in London crisis and collapse with funds under the US what is becomes the world the first financial with the deregulation of LTCM.
management regarded as the price-making centre futures contract.
