Cable & Wireless is one of the worlds leading international communications companies.
It operates through two standalone businesses International and Europe, Asia & US with a small Central team as portfolio manager.
04 At a glance Europe, Asia & US International Our International business operates full Europe, Asia & US provides enterprise service telecommunications companies and carrier solutions to the largest users through four major operations in the of telecom services across the UK, Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco continental Europe, Asia and the US.
At a glance Highlights We are the leading telecommunications Mobile customers up 27% to 6.4 million provider in the majority of our markets.
market leader in 19 out of 26 markets We offer mobile, broadband and domestic Broadband customers up 16% to and international fixed line services to 466,000 market leader in 28 out homes, small and medium-sized enterprises, of 34 markets corporate customers and governments.
We Fixed customers steady at 1.9 million operate in 39 countries through four major market leader in 26 out of 34 markets operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Mobile and broadband revenue up 17% Macau and Monaco & Islands.
to US$1.1 billion now 43% of revenue EBITDA of US$830 million 34% of Strategy total revenue Our aim is for every business within Trading cash flow of US$416 million our portfolio to operate as a competitive US$243 million repatriated enterprise a 21st century telecoms business Services extended to six new markets so that we become the telecoms provider First to launch 3G network in Macau of choice in all our markets.
To achieve data traffic has more than tripled our aim, we are leveraging our assets and New mobile services launched in British capabilities, driving a more efficient business Virgin Islands and Isle of Man and offering great products, services and an enhanced service experience.
The result will be better growth prospects and better quality of earnings.
At a glance Highlights We provide high quality managed IP services Service levels hitting new highs: to the largest users of telecom services in 90% of customer calls now the UK, continental Europe, Asia and the US.
answered within 20 seconds With our business focused on large Delivery on time 90% of the time enterprise customers, we are exceptionally Our multi-service platform is delivering: well positioned to capitalise on the powerful Fixed mobile convergence trends that enterprise customers are Digital marketing experiencing such as globalisation, business Next generation video conferencing complexity and the need for constantly EBITDA of 219 million more than improving business performance.
double last year Revenue now back in growth up Strategy 19 million in the second half of the year Our aim is to be the first customer-defined IP, data and hosting revenue up 8% global telecommunications services to 774 million now 40% of revenue business in the world.
To achieve our aim Were generating cash with positive were focusing on enterprise customers, trading cash flow in the second delivering an unparalleled customer half the first time in many years experience for them, with a market-leading product suite that matches their needs, together with exceptional service.
The result will be a proposition thats valued by our customers and economic for us.
