At a Glance Revenue Our NA: UK: EU: % % % 2008 27 2008 69 2008 4 % % % 2007 25 2007 73 2007 2 businesses British Gas British Gas British Gas British Gas Residential Business Services New Energy 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 379m 571m 143m 120m 195m 151m 3m 2m Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating profit profit profit profit profit profit loss loss 8,100 9,200 2,100 2,000 15,400 15,200 54 24 Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees The business: The business: The business: The business: We are the biggest energy We are Britains leading supplier We are Britains largest British Gas New Energy BGNE supplier in Britains domestic of energy to businesses, from operator in the installation and was established in 2007 to market.
Operating under our small to medium-sized maintenance of domestic central offer low-carbon solutions to British Gas brand Scottish Gas enterprises SME through to heating and gas appliances customers.
We now supply in Scotland, we had 15.6 million large industrial and commercial employing around 9,500 more energy efficiency products, gas and electricity customer users.
We offer a range of engineers.
We also provide such as insulation, than any accounts at the end of 2008, options from open tariffs to comprehensive maintenance other UK utility.
We provide representing just over 40% of fixed-price contracts, and by and breakdown services for advice on saving energy and the gas market and 20% of the the end of 2008 we had over electrical white goods, home install a range of renewable and electricity market.
wiring and, through our Dyno low-carbon microgeneration such brand, drains, plumbing and as solar panels and heat pumps.
The market and our position: The market and our position: home security services.
We also provide two industry British Gas Residential operates The business market is highly leading green energy tariffs.
in the fully competitive energy sophisticated and there has been The market and our position: supply market in Britain.
a rise in intermediaries advisers We have seen a rise in The market and our position: Competitive positioning is based who help customers manage the competition in the contract Many consumers understand on brand recognition, the range impact of volatile energy prices.
cover market, from insurance that better energy efficiency of product propositions on offer, With the prospect of tighter and other energy companies.
and using cleaner energy are customer service quality, and regulation around businesses We have ensured we are priorities in tackling climate retail price.
The market has carbon emissions, we will be offering customers greater change.
This also remains a high strong regulatory oversight.
offering help to our customers to choice by growing our range of political priority, with increasing The deteriorating economic cut their energy usage and products outside the original Government policies to reduce environment and unprecedented reduce their carbon footprint.
Our carbon emissions from homes volatility in wholesale energy performance in the emergency and businesses.
We have British Gas Business has a loyal prices has led to increased focus on demand market remains responded to this evolving customer base in part due to on energy bills and the need for strong with over 65% of call outs market by developing a range of our dedicated account manager additional support for those converting to a contractual low-carbon customer solutions.
service, which provides a defined as fuel poor.
As energy prices rise During 2008, more than half a personalised customer service.
and concern about emissions million customers completed British Gas has the largest Our recent acquisition of BMSi increases, new technologies our Energy Savers Report.
The programme in Britain to support an installer of specialist control become more attractive, and energy efficiency measures we vulnerable and in-need systems to improve energy interest in home energy provided to homes delivered customers.
Our range of efficiency in commercial efficiency increases.
So we lifetime carbon savings of 17.87 fixed-price products has proved buildings has added to the expect customer demand to million tonnes.
We acquired popular with customers seeking range of services that we grow significantly for more a business that designs and stability and certainty in their can offer.
In 2008 installs solar photovoltaic future energy bills.
We now have we supported British Gas systems and a low-carbon over 3.5 million customers on Residential in the launch of a consulting business.
bundled product, Dual Fuel exclusive distribution rights for Extra, and aim to expand such several combined heat and cross-selling during 2009. power technologies and invested in one of these developers.
co. uk 02 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 OUR MARKETS AND PROPORTION OF GROUP REVENUE Group Operating Employment revenue profit workforce The map on the left illustrates how much revenue each of the regions contributed 8% to the Groups total.
19% We can also take the Group as a whole and look at the contributions made by our 45% downstream, customer-facing operations compared to the contribution made by our 81% 92% 55% upstream assets and trading operations, as illustrated in the pie charts on the right.
from continuing operations including joint ventures and associates, stated net of interest and taxation, Downstream Upstream and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Centrica Energy Centrica Storage Direct Energy European Energy 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 879m 663m 195m 240m 215m 187m 56m 17m Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating profit profit profit profit profit profit loss profit 1,200 1,100 200 190 5,000 4,800 250 200 Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees The business: The business: The business: The business: We source gas and electricity Centrica Storage operates the We provide energy and We are involved in power from our own production and Rough storage facility which is energy-related services to generation, energy management from third parties, mainly to the largest in the UK providing residential and business and retail energy supply in supply British Gas Residential approximately 70% of current customers in Texas and the Europe, with operations in and British Gas Business.
It consists north and east of the United Belgium, Germany, The gas fields can supply around of a partially depleted gas field States, as well as across Netherlands and Spain.
29% of our UK gas requirements, under the North Sea, supported Canada.
We own and operate The market and our position: and we produce around 58% of by a gas processing terminal at approximately 3,000 natural gas The European energy landscape our peak electricity requirements Easington, which we also wells in Alberta while in Texas, is continuing its slow from our seven gas-fired power manage.
We sell gas storage we own three gas-fired power transformation, with ongoing stations, four wind farms and and other services to Centrica plants and have power merger and acquisition activity, major contracts.
Energy and a range of third purchase agreements totalling significant evolution of wholesale parties.
Centrica Storage 813MW of wind power.
The market and our position: markets, and increased also operates the Langeled Both oil and gas prices saw The market and our position: unbundling activity, most notably terminal receiving Norwegian record highs during 2008, and North America has seen a year in Germany and The Netherlands.
gas from the worlds longest the UK power market tightened of change during 2008: energy Regulatory changes have also led undersea pipeline.
sharply with capacity shortfalls markets have been affected by to further unbundling and due to station outages in the UK The market and our position: volatile wholesale gas prices restructuring in Belgium, where in fleet.
We are investing in new With the UK rapidly becoming and the economic downturn.
On January 2009 we increased our gas assets by acquiring more more dependent on imported top of this, deregulation shareholding in the generation fields in the North Sea, and gas, increasing the countrys continues to be a hot topic with and supply company SPE to also in developing our power gas storage capacity is essential potential changes to carbon a controlling 51%.
generation and renewables in order to ensure security of legislation under the new We are well positioned to take fleet.
To meet these future Obama administration.
We are advantage of opportunities that station one of the UKs cleanest requirements and develop continuing to invest to grow and may emerge in Europe.
However fossil-fuelled power plants is Centrica Storage into a in 2008 acquired upstream gas the pace of deregulation is key due to begin operation in 2009, multi-asset, multi-product assets from Rockyview and and the returns will need to and our investment programme business we are planning to TransGlobe Energy in Canada.
be competitive with other to develop renewable energy convert the largely depleted We also added to our customer opportunities across the Group.
from offshore and onshore wind Bains gas field near our base in the United States farms is progressing.
We have Morecambe Bay fields into through the purchase of enough import capacity at the a storage facility and have Strategic Energy.
This makes Isle of Grain liquefied natural also acquired the onshore Direct Energy one of North gas LNG terminal to supply Caythorpe gas storage project Americas largest energy and over 10% of our annual gas in East Yorkshire.
energy-related services requirement, and have also providers with more than 5 In February 2009 we announced announced our intention to million customer relationships.
our intention to create an acquire a 25% stake in the additional 60bcf gas storage field nuclear generator British in the UK North Sea following the Energy, which would add acquisition of a 70% share in the significantly to our portfolio.
