Overview Our business in brief BT is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
Our vision is to be dedicated to helping customers thrive in a changing world.
What we do Who we do it for Where we operate Our capabilities range from: Our more than 16 million customers range BT serves customers in over 170 countries.
from individual consumers with a single In order to be where our customers the provision of a single, domestic phone line, to government departments need us to be, we are growing our telephone line in the UK to the and some of the worlds biggest global business organically and through development of an innovative multinational companies.
global network infrastructure for the twentyfirst century: mission-critical global networked 2008 revenue by customer segment Non-UK regional revenue growth in 2008 IT services for multinationals to % broadband packages for the home: Major corporate next generation TV to voice over 15% Business 26 IP services: and Europe excluding UK Consumer 37 innovative calls packages for homes Wholesale carrier and businesses to value-added services such as online trading 19% communities and comprehensive IT Americas 24 support.
13 66% Asia Paci c The way we do business The BT values capture the way we get We are committed to contributing We have ISO 9001 certi cation things done.
They are at the heart of every positively to society and a sustainable for most of our operations in the compelling customer experience.
This is at the heart of BT: UK and around the world.
our UK CO emissions are 58% below 2 Our values are: We aim to do business in an innovative, their 1996 levels and we are committed ethical and sustainable way in accordance Trustworthy: we do what we say we will to achieving an 80% reduction from our with our published code of practice 1996 baseline by 2016 Helpful: we work as one team The Way We Work.
Not only do we believe thats the right thing to do, but we also we commit a minimum of 1% of our UK Inspiring: we create new possibilities believe that its good business good for pre-tax pro ts in cash and in kind to Straightforward: we make things clear customers, good for shareholders and good activities which support society.
for the communities in which we operate.
Heart: we believe in what we do In 2008 BT was ranked as the top company We have recently won the following in the telecommunications sector in the awards: Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh year in a row.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Member 2007 08 4 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Our structure 2008 external revenue by line of business % BT Group BT Global Services 4 BT Retail 18 BT Global BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach BT Wholesale Services 38 Openreach BT Design BT Operate 40 How we are structured We are meeting the needs of our different customer groups major corporates, government and financial institutions: consumers: small and medium-sized enterprises: and other communications providers through four customer-facing lines of business, supported by two internal functional units.
Business unit 2008 focus BT Global Services BT Global Services serves corporate, carrier and government We continued to grow the business, listened to our customers organisations across the world, providing high-performance needs and focused on offering and delivering new high-value, managed networked IT services, application management, mission-critical services and propositions.
As a result: professional services and outsourcing solutions.
Over 60% of Fortune Global 500 companies and over 65% of FTSE 100 companies are our customers a With EBITDA margins of 11.2%, we are making progress towards our 15% target.
BT Retail BT Retail serves consumer customers and small and medium-sized We focused on providing retail customers with a range of enterprises in the UK, providing a range of innovative products and services to help them communicate more effectively, access services.
It also comprises BT Ireland and our Enterprises division.
entertainment and manage their lives and we helped SMEs concentrate on what they do best: BT is the UKs most popular broadband retailer Around 1 million businesses rely on us.
BT Wholesale BT Wholesale brings economies of scale to 700 UK We continued to provide services to carriers and, increasingly, our communications companies, through a diverse portfolio ranging focus has been on the provision of innovative managed network from nationally available broadband, voice and data connectivity solutions: services and interconnect, to bespoke, fully managed network Four-year outsourcing deal with the Post Of ce outsourcing and value-added solutions.
Provision of voice network management services to Virgin Media.
Openreach Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile connecting We focused on continuing to deliver and comply with the communications providers customers to their local telephone Undertakings made to Ofcom, while driving ef ciencies and exchange, giving them equal, open and economic access to the UK enhancing service levels.
We achieved signi cant progress network.
in enhancing the competitive environment in the UK communications services market: 4.3 million unbundled non-BT lines in the UK Over 40% improvement in service provision lead times.
BT Design and BT Operate BT Design is responsible for the design and deployment of the platforms, systems and processes which support our products and services, and BT Operate is responsible for their operation.
BT Design is also implementing our UK twentyfirst century network infrastructure.
a Before speci c items and leaver costs.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 5 Overview
