4 Section 1 Overview YEAR IN BRIEF 1 2 3 4 MEL B APPEARS BEAUTY CLUB LAUNCHED KYLIE AT HOME WELCOME KARAWACI FOR ULTIMO The Debenhams Beauty Club February saw the launch Our third franchise store Thousands of fans greeted model was launched in March 2008 of Kylie at home, the new in Indonesia is now open and former Spice Girl Mel B when as a way to drive footfall and collection of home couture at Supermal Karawaci.
This she made appearances in a loyalty within our cosmetics designed by pop superstar 150,000 sq ft store features an number of stores in June in business.
We have now run Kylie Minogue.
Debenhams entrance which is over 400 ft her role as the face and body three successful events.
has the privilege of oering wide.
Ten international franchise of lingerie brand Ultimo.
Ultimo The mechanics are very simple: two exclusive designs.
Kylies stores opened during the course is stocked in 80 Debenhams we oer a 5 gift card on captivating style translates of 2008 including market entries stores, including 20 distinctive purchases of two or more seamlessly to her home in India and Romania.
products over 25 across collection, which reects the the entire cosmetics division.
glamour and sophistication she brings to the stage.
2 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 2 3 6 Section 1 Overview 5 6 7 8 RED HERRING SPECIAL HAPPY BIRTHDAY BAKER BLACKPOOL OPENS A NEW CONCEPT EDITION In August, Designers at IN STYLE FOR HOME Launched in the spring, Special Debenhams Childrenswear Debenhams Blackpool opened The opening of the Liverpool Edition is a party wear addition brand Baker by Ted Baker in August to a great fanfare store in May saw the launch to our younger fashion brand celebrated its first birthday.
A town crier of the new Home department Red Herring.
Many of the dresses The brand has gone from and a line-up of show girls led concept which focuses on featured in our Sex and The City strength to strength and a parade of sta from Blackpools fashion and style products rather events which ran in June to is now available in 92 stores.
famous Winter Garden to the than just commodities.
Elements celebrate the launch of the Customers love the level store for the grand opening.
of the concept are being rolled much-awaited movie.
of fashion and sense of fun The store was formally opened out in all new stores, most that the range provides.
by Coronation Street actress notably Westeld London.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 8 7 5
