Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Overview 02 At a Glance Total breadth Total global of offering reach Operating with true global scale across Through a global network of 25 subsidiary a diverse industry base, including food, offices and in excess of 200 distributors, beverage, pharmaceutical and multiple Domino sells to over 120 countries offering industrial product groups, Domino extensive customer support.
provides customers with proven solutions built upon years of extensive experience.
North America 17% of turnover The Domino Group is well established in North America with subsidiaries in Canada, USA and Mexico.
In addition to full sales and service coverage across North America, the Group has fluids and printer manufacturing facilities in the USA.
Product identification Outer case and secondary package coding Domino businesses provide a wide range of products utilising ink jet, laser and thermal Printing onto cartons, cardboard boxes, printing technologies for product and trays and other secondary levels of package coding and marking.
Continuous Ink packaging, the Group offers a range of Jet CIJ brands include Domino, Citronix products under the Domino, Alpha Dot and and Wiedenbach.
These products provide Mectec brands aimed at providing high South America 7% of turnover reliable, versatile printing capability operating quality barcodes and graphics as well as in a wide range of production environments standard alphanumeric coding.
The Domino Group companies have a network of well established and applications.
Laser products sold range includes Drop on Demand DOD distributors providing sales and service support throughout under the Domino, Sator and Photon ink jet technologies using both valve and South America.
The Groups distributors operate to common Energy brands use both gas and solid state piezo technologies alongside M-Series standards which means that multinational companies and laser technologies to meet the exacting Print and Apply Labelling Machines PALM OEMs are assured of a high standard of support wherever requirements of parts marking in addition for volume applications.
The Mectec brand they may be located.
Thermal of PALM additionally provides solutions Transfer Overprinting TTO products offered to meet more complex applications by both Domino and Easyprint are typically including larger scale end of line pallet used where products are enclosed in flexible labelling.
Both Domino and Mectec PALM packaging such as pouches and wrappers.
systems offer RFID enabled solutions for Thermal Ink Jet TIJ products are the latest product traceability.
addition to the Groups product range.
APS Apsolute printers are sold alongside Commercial Printing solutions Domino brand TIJ G-Series products and Dominos Commercial Printing solutions provide customers with high print quality meet the needs of the binding, finishing, offering both alphanumeric and machine plastic card and newspaper industries to readable barcode and similar coding print addresses, barcodes and numbers capability.
Complementing our printing onto products at very high speed and near capability, Purex air purification systems are letter quality.
Domino offers both single jet Europe 42% of turnover offered to provide cost effective extraction and binary CIJ solutions alongside DOD of fumes and particles created by the laser The Group has subsidiary offices in France, Germany, the and TIJ based products.
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Denmark.
Elsewhere, Printing applications also often require data customers are supported through a network of well management and line control.
Editor GT controller solutions provide the perfect complement to our printers offering customers full control of all aspects of their printing and finishing operations.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 03 2,238 200 Worldwide employees Global distributors 25 120 International subsidiary offices Domino sells to over 120 countries United Kingdom 8% of turnover Asia Pacific 23% of turnover The UK is the Domino Groups global headquarters including Domino has subsidiary operations in China, India, South its principal manufacturing sites as well as its global R&D Korea and Australia with an established base of distributors operations.
The UK sales and service business also operates serving other regional markets.
Products destined for the out of the Cambridge site.
Asia Pacific region are manufactured in Dominos facility in Shanghai, China.
Domino also has manufacturing facilities in Delhi, India which serve the local market.
Middle East 3% of turnover Dominos Middle East operations, based in Dubai, support local sales in the United Arab Emirates and Dominos network of distributors throughout the Middle East and Africa.
