Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
02 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 ENRC at a glance Focused operations ENRC has established itself 1 Ferroalloys Division as one of the worlds leading The Ferroalloys Divisions mining operations comprise natural resources groups, Kazchromes Donskoy GOK and, manganese miner, Zhairem GOK, and also includes the Aktobe and Aksu and is well positioned to take ferroalloy plants and a gas-fired power station a leading role in the global at Aktobe.
In addition, in 2008, we acquired Serov, a Russian ferroalloys producer, and a stake in Tuoli, mining industry.
Integrating a ferroalloys producer in China.
The Division produces and sells high-, mediumand low-carbon ferrochrome the Republic of Kazakhstans and other alloys, including ferrosilicochrome, foremost mining, processing, ferrosilicomanganese and ferrosilicon, as well as chrome and manganese concentrate.
The Division sells power and logistics operations, its ferroalloys primarily to steel producers and sells the ENRC is now firmly established remaining chrome and manganese ore to third party ferroalloy producers and the chemical and refractory as a world-class business industry.
The Ferroalloys Division, according to estimates, is the worlds largest ferrochrome producer with revenue in 2008 of by chrome content, and is at the bottom of the global US$6.8 billion, an ongoing industry cost curve.
capex programme that invested US$1.3 billion in 2008 and approximately 2 Iron Ore Division 67,000 employees.
The The Iron Ore Division includes primary mining operations that produce iron Groups strategy aims to bridge ore, ancillary mining operations that produce limestone, dolomite and the Groups current position as bentonite-clay, an iron ore processing a leading, diversified natural plant and a power plant.
The Division mines and processes iron ore into resource Group largely based concentrate and pellets for sale in the Republic of Kazakhstan, primarily to steel producers.
The Iron Ore Division sells much of its iron ore to its future opportunities to the Russian steel producer, the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works, as a more broadly based under a long-term contract.
The Iron international mining group.
Ore Division, according to estimates, is one of the regions significant exporters of iron ore and is in the lowest third of the industry cost curve for iron ore pellet production.
Below Ushkatyn III mine, Zhairem GOK, Zhairem, Karaganda region.
Percentage of total Group Key minerals: manganese black, iron red, clay yellow, limestone grey revenues by division 2% 3% 12% 61% 22% Ferroalloy Division Iron Ore Division Alumina and Aluminium Division Energy Division Logistics Division Percentage of total Group revenues by Division excludes inter-segment revenues.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
