Experian at a glance Experians operational headquarters are in Experian is an information services Our products and services are Costa Mesa, California above and Nottingham, company.
grouped under four principal United Kingdom below.
activities: We provide organisations and individuals with information and Credit Services analysis to help them make the right Helping lenders to make timely and decisions.
responsible credit-granting decisions, while making it easier and quicker for It may be a bank needing to decide their own customers to obtain finance.
the most appropriate credit limit for a new customer.
Or a retailer wanting Decision Analytics to choose the best location for a new Enabling lenders to assess the store.
Or a vehicle manufacturer degree of risk associated with any looking for the best potential particular course of action and to customers for its latest model.
Or a test and fine-tune different lending government department needing to strategies.
verify the identity of new claimants.
Or a consumer wanting to protect their Marketing Services family from identity fraud.
Helping organisations to reach new customers and to expand existing At the heart of our business lies a vast relationships, using the most store of information, around which appropriate media and message.
we have developed a unique range of analytical skills and software tools.
It Interactive enables us to provide extraordinary Allowing consumers to monitor insight into everyday decision making.
their personal credit files securely over the internet and to find the best From our early focus on financial deals on products and services.
services, we now have clients in almost every major industry.
We have also continued to expand geographically and today support clients in over 65 countries.
Credit Services Decision Analytics Revenue by region Revenue by region North America 43% UK and Ireland 15% North America 17% UK and Ireland 53% Latin America 16% EMEA Asia Pacific 26% Latin America 2% EMEA Asia Pacific 28% Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue 47% 12% 4 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Experian at a glance 6 37 38 64 65 144 1 1 Revenue by industry market profile Revenue by client client profile Financial services Direct-to-consumer Top 10 clients Retail home shopping Top 50 clients Telecom utility All other Media publishing advertising Government non-profit education 1 Automotive Excluding discontinuing activities, Consumer Direct and Serasa Other Of the top 50 clients at least 85% have been doing 1 Management estimate of percentage of revenue by vertical market business with Experian for five years or more Excludes discontinuing activities and Serasa Experian operates in 38 countries and sells to clients in over 65 countries Countries with Experian offices Countries without Experian offices where Experian sells to clients Argentina China Hong Kong Netherlands South Korea Australia Czech Republic India New Zealand Spain Austria Denmark Ireland Norway Sweden Belgium Estonia Italy Poland Turkey Brazil Finland Japan Romania United Kingdom Bulgaria France Malaysia Russia United States Canada Germany Mexico Singapore Chile Greece Monaco South Africa Marketing Services Interactive Revenue by region Revenue by region North America 46% UK and Ireland 43% North America 92% Latin America 1% EMEA Asia Pacific 10% UK and Ireland 8% Contribution to Group revenue Contribution to Group revenue 20% 21% Experian Annual Report 2008 5
