GKN at a Glance Constant velocity jointed sideshaft Variable valve timing rotor Automotiv Automotive e 22,200 Employees Powder Metallurgy 6,000 Employees GKN Driveline develops, manufactures and supplies GKN Sinter Metals uses powdered metals to Principal the most extensive and widely used range of manufacture precision automotive components Operations automotive driveline components for light vehicles, for engines, transmissions, and body and chassis including driveshafts, geared components and torque applications.
It also produces a range of components for management devices.
The European industrial and industrial and consumer applications, including power distribution services business IDS provides a range tools, bearings, white goods and garden equipment.
The of components to the passenger vehicle aftermarket, business operates from 29 locations in Western Europe, and repairs and replaces heavy duty propshafts.
North and South America, India, China and South Africa.
The business, including joint ventures, operates from Hoeganaes produces metal powders, largely ferrous over 40 locations in more than 30 countries.
based, used in the manufacture of sintered components.
Manufacture takes place in Europe and in North Other Automotive companies manufacture structural America, where it is the largest producer of ferrous components, engine cylinder liners and substrates metal powder.
for catalytic converters for light vehicle and truck applications through subsidiaries and joint ventures in the UK, Germany, the US, China and India.
GKN Driveline is the global leader in the production GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds largest manufacturer Major Markets of constant velocity jointed CVJ products for light of sintered components with an estimated 15% vehicles, with approximately 41% global market global market share, around twice that of its nearest share.
Its share of global demand for premium competitors.
Approximately 80% of its sales are propshafts is around 18% and it is one of the worlds to automotive customers, with around 29%, either leading suppliers of mechanically and electronically directly or indirectly, to the North American operations controlled torque management systems and of Chrysler, Ford and General Motors, and the balance associated geared components.
The customer base to a wide range of other industrial customers.
is wide and includes all the worlds major motor Hoeganaes has an estimated 50% share of the metal manufacturing groups.
powder market in North America.
Some 45% of IDS has a wide range of aftermarket customers and its powder production is sold to our own sintering Other Automotive sells mainly to European and US business with the balance to other US, European and vehicle manufacturers and engine makers.
Sales by 32m 5% 623m 26% Region of Origin 299m 48% 547m 22% 1,274m 52% 287m 47% Rest of the World Rest of the World Americas Americas Europe Europe including share of joint ventures 6 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 6 09 03 2009 14:16 09 03 2009 14:16 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Welcome GKN at a Glance Off-highway driveshaft Blended winglet OffHighway 3,900 Employees Aerospace 7,900 Employees GKN OffHighway designs, manufactures and GKN Aerospace is a leading supplier of airframe distributes a wide range of products for the agricultural, and engine structures, components, assemblies, construction and mining, and industrial machinery transparencies and engineering services to aircraft markets.
The business supplies, on a global basis, a and engine prime contractors.
It offers design portfolio of products for off-highway vehicles including and manufacturing capabilities in aerostructures agricultural and torsion axles, wheels, power take-off fuselage, wing and flight control surface assemblies shafts, gearboxes and tractor attachment systems.
and components, propulsion systems engine and nacelle components and assemblies, and special A service and distribution business supplies GKNs products including transparencies and protection and other manufacturers products to aftermarket systems.
wholesalers and distributors, principally within Europe.
The business operates through 28 manufacturing facilities, mainly in North America and Europe, The business operates from 24 locations in 13 assisted by a network of design and support facilities.
countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia.
It also has three dedicated engineering centres around the world.
The major markets in which GKN OffHighway GKN Aerospace serves all major airframe and operates are global agricultural 68% of sales, engine manufacturers, with particular emphasis on construction and mining equipment 20% and composite technologies 22% of sales, lightweight industrial equipment 12%.
GKN OffHighway is highly stressed metallic components 42% and the leading global supplier of off-highway wheels, integrated systems and aftermarket services 36%.
It agricultural power take-off shafts, and high speed is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced shafts for construction equipment.
composites, transparencies and complex metal structures.
A first tier supplier to the worlds leading manufacturers of agricultural, construction and Approximately 58% of sales are to the defence market mining equipment, 40% of its sales are to eight and 42% to the civil market.
The top three customers, global customers including John Deere, Caterpillar, which account for some 50% of sales, are Boeing, Case New Holland, CLAAS and AGCO.
The remaining Airbus and United Technologies Corporation.
sales are to some 3,000 independent customers.
18m 3% 10m 1% 147m 27% 664m 66% 388m 70% Rest of the World Rest of the World 328m 33% Americas Americas Europe Europe www.
