15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:58 Page 1 1 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 GROUP AT A GLANCE Marstons Inns and Taverns is the managed pub division of Our trading formats include: Marstons PLC with 506pubs and bars spread across Marstons Tavern Table comfortable surroundings and a England and Wales.
warm welcome in a great British pub restaurant.
The majority of our estate comprises community and food-led Marstons Two for One great food, irresistibleprices pubs with a strong local customer base and an emphasis and no compromises all the comforts of home without the on value and quality offered through a range of operating washing up!
Our outlets includethe exciting bar-restaurants Pitcher & Piano and Bluu.
We are investing consistently in Pitcher & Piano Bluu passion for the best service, the our food skills development and we lead a team who are most outstanding premiumdrinks and great food, all delivered dedicated to delivering excellent service at great value prices.
In addition to food and drink, we now have over 50 pubs offering quality accommodation with an online booking facility at www.
Marstons Pub Company is the tradingdivision of Marstons Marstons Pub Company favours a simple and straightforward PLC with over 1,700 tenanted and leased pubs under its open approach to runningapub based on our principle of management.
Our income is derived from the sale of beers, SustainableGrowth, Uncompromising Standards.
wines, spirits and soft drinks to the operators of the public We believe in building the best possible business houses, rental income from these properties and a shared relationships to help our licensees celebrate their successes income from gaming machines operated within the pubs.
The and give them help when they need it to run their businesses self-employed entrepreneurs who run the pubs derive their in a responsible and sustainable manner.
We are proud to be income from food, accommodation and the resale of drinks at the forefront of  services offered purchased from the Company.
These operators rent the through My Marstons Online and we also offer a costpremises for 5 to 30 years.
Marstons Beer Company is the brewing division of Marstons Ringwood Brewery, Hampshire known for its PLC, operating five breweries across the country: premium cask ale range including Best Bitter, Fortyniner and Old Thumper.
Marstons Brewery, Burton uponTrent where our famous national flagship brand Marstons Pedigree Wychwood Brewery, Oxfordshire is home to the is brewed along with other beers such as Old legendary Hobgoblin, the Brakspear ale range and Empire IPA and Burton Bitter.
It is also the UKs No 1 producer of organic beer.
Park Brewery, Wolverhampton where West Midlands favourites such as Bankss Bitter and We use only the finest natural ingredients and craftsmanship Bankss Original are produced.
available to produce a range of beers for you to enjoy.
We dont compromise and take the quality of our beer very Castle Brewery at Cockermouth in the Lake District, seriously.
In the growing take home market we are the UKs famous for such Jennings beers as Cumberland No 1 premium bottled ale supplier.
Ale, Cocker Hoop and Sneck Lifter.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINA FINANC NCIA IAL L ST STA AT TE EME MENT NTS S DIRECTORS & G GOVE OVERN RNA AN NC CE E BUSINE PERF SS ORM REAN VIE CE W TD HE IRECTI GROUP ON CHAIR GR MA OUP NS AFOR T A GLA EWOR NCD E
