3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 140 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of 3i Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 93 to 139.
In our opinion: 3i Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Group profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of 3i Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of comprehensive Company statement of financial position as at 31 March 2016 income for the year to 31 March 2016 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2016 Company statement of changes in equity for the year to 31 March 2016 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Company cash ow statement for the year to 31 March 2016 for the year to 31 March 2016 Consolidated cash ow statement for the year to 31 March 2016 Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Areas of audit focus The following risks had the greatest effect on our overall strategy, on the allocation of resources on the audit, and on directing the efforts of the audit team.
Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments and resulting impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Incorrect calculation of carried interest and resulting impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and realised profits on disposal of investments.
The first two areas of focus are considered to be significant risks, consistent with the 2015 audit strategy.
The Group is principally managed from one location in London.
All core functions, including finance and operations, Audit scope are located in London.
The Group operates nine international ofces which are primarily responsible for deal origination and investment portfolio monitoring.
The Group comprises 69 consolidated subsidiaries and 43 investment entity subsidiaries.
Monitoring and control over the operations of these subsidiaries, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
The UK audit team audited all items material to the Group financial statements.
Our audit tested 99% of the investment portfolio and 96% of carried interest accruals.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 44m 2015: 38m which represents 1% of net assets.
Any audit differences in excess of 2m 2015: 1.9m are reported to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
What has changed The incorrect recognition of portfolio income and realised profits on disposal of investments is included as an area of audit focus.
We have included this risk in 2016 as a number of the Groups investments have been realised or re-nanced during the period.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 141 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Our assessment of areas of audit focus We identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Area of audit focus Our response to the area of audit focus Group and parent company risk Monitoring and control of the valuation process is exercised centrally by management in London and therefore we have reected this in our audit strategy whereby the London Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments based team perform all audit procedures.
Our procedures extended to testing 99% of and resulting impact on the consolidated statement of the related amount.
comprehensive income We obtained an understanding of managements processes and controls determining Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report the fair valuation of unquoted proprietary investments.
This included discussing with pages 75 to 78 : significant accounting policies pages 100 management the valuation governance structure and protocols around their oversight to 102 : and Notes 10, 11 and 12 of the financial statements of the valuation process and corroborating our understanding by attending Valuations pages 110 to 114 Committee meetings.
We identied key controls in the process, assessed design The proprietary investment portfolio comprises a number adequacy and tested operating effectiveness of those controls.
This enabled us to rely of unquoted securities.
In the consolidated statement of on controls over portfolio company and comparable company data used in the valuation financial position these are shown both as Investments of unquoted investments.
which are held directly by consolidated subsidiaries of the We compared managements valuation methodology to IFRS and the IPEV guidelines.
Group, and as Investments in investment entities which are We sought explanations from management where there were judgements applied in typically limited partnerships and other holding structures.
their application of the guidelines, and discussed their appropriateness.
The Group adopts a valuation methodology based on the With the assistance of our valuations specialists, we formed an independent range of International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation the key assumptions used in the valuation of a sample of unquoted investments within 2012 IPEV guidelines, in conformity with IFRS 13.
Owing both the private equity and debt management business lines, with reference to relevant to the unquoted and illiquid nature of these investments, industry and market valuation considerations.
We compared these ranges with the assessment of fair valuation is subjective and requires a managements assumptions, and discussed our results with both management and the number of significant and complex judgements to be made Valuations Committee.
The exit value will be determined by the With respect to unquoted investments in the private equity business line, on a sample market at the time of realisation and therefore despite the basis we corroborated key inputs in the valuation models, such as earnings and net debt valuation policy adopted and judgements made by to source data.
We also performed the following procedures on key judgements made management, the final sales value may differ materially by management in the calculation of fair value: fromthe valuation.
Assessed the suitability of the comparable companies used in the calculation of the There is the risk that inaccurate judgements made in the earnings multiples: assessment of fair value, in particular in respect of: earnings Challenged management on the application of liquidity discounts to earnings multiples, the application of liquidity discounts, calculation of discount rates and the estimation of future maintainable multiples, obtaining rationale and supporting evidence for adjustments made: earnings, could lead to the incorrect valuation of the Performed corroborative calculations to assess the appropriateness of discount unquoted proprietary investment portfolio.
In turn, this rates:and could materially misstate the value of the Investment Discussed the adjustments made to calculate future maintainable earnings and portfolio in the Statement of financial position, the Gross corroborated this to supporting documentation.
investment return and Total return in the Consolidated We veried the valuation of unquoted investments in the debt management business statement of comprehensive income and the Net asset line to broker quotes and other data from third party pricing sources used by value per share.
management in the calculation of fair value.
There is also the risk that management may inuence the We checked the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models on a sample basis.
significant judgements and estimations in respect of Werecalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments impacting unquoted proprietary investment valuations in order to theConsolidated statement of comprehensive income.
meet market expectations of the overall Net asset value of the Group.
We discussed and understood the rationale for any differences between the exit prices of investments realised during the year and the prior year fair value, to further verify the reasonableness of the current year valuation models and methodology adopted by management.
What we concluded to the Audit and Compliance Committee: The valuation of the unquoted proprietary investment portfolio is considered appropriate and within an acceptable range of fair value.
All valuations tested have been measured and recognised in accordance with IFRS and the IPEV guidelines.
Appropriate inputs to the valuations were used and we identied no significant differences between the valuations calculated by management and the results of our testing.
Based on our procedures performed we had no matters to report to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 142 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Area of audit focus Our response to the area of audit focus Monitoring and control of the carried interest process is exercised centrally by Group and parent company risk management in London and therefore we have reected this in our audit strategy Incorrect calculation of carried interest and resulting whereby the London based team perform all audit procedures.
Our procedures impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive extended to testing 96% of the related amount.
income We obtained an understanding of managements processes and controls for the Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report page calculation of carried interest by performing walkthrough procedures and discussing 75 to 78 : and Notes 11 and 13 of the financial statements with management the governance structure and protocols around their oversight of the pages 111 and 115 carried interest arrangements.
Given the manual nature of the calculation, although Carried interest receivable is an accrual of the share of the controls were deemed to be designed effectively, we adopted a substantive approach profits from funds managed by the Group on behalf of third to our testing.
Carried interest payable is an accrual of amounts We agreed a sample of calculation methodologies to their respective terms and payable to investment executives in respect of the returns conditions set out in the underlying agreements.
Carried interest payable is only Our audit procedures on the fair value of the underlying investments are stated in the paid on realisation of investments.
We performed analytical procedures comparing the performance of the Carried interest receivable and payable is calculated as a reference investments in each fund scheme, taking into account the investment percentage of the profits that would be achieved, if the realisations, to the related accruals in the financial statements.
investments within each fund or scheme were realised at On a sample basis we: fair value, subject to the relevant hurdle rates or performance conditions being met.
Recalculated the returns on the fund scheme to test that hurdles performance conditions had been met where carried interest was being accrued: Judgement is required in determining the fair value of the investment portfolio as described in the preceding risk Recalculated the carried interest accruals for mathematical accuracy and agreed the investment fair values to our audit work on the fair value of the investment portfolio, section and therefore, whether hurdles or performance conditions have been achieved.
the fee rates to the relevant agreements and realised gains to our audit work on realised profits: There are multiple carried interest arrangements which Determined the reasonableness of investment exit dates with reference to our audit have been structured over multiple periods, include work on the fair value of the investment portfolio, and our understanding of the life different pools of investments and investment executives cycle of the relevant investments, and then compared this with the anticipated may participate in more than one scheme.
The process of payment dates used to discount the carried interest accrual: and calculating carried interest receivable and payable relies on manual calculations.
Veried the resulting cash ows to award letters sent to investment executives and Due to the complexities inherent in the arrangements and bank statement payments.
the manual nature of the recognition process, there is a risk that the carried interest calculations are incorrectly calculated or recognised in the wrong period.
What we concluded to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify any matters regarding the recognition of carried interest in accordance with IFRS.
All calculations tested have been performed in accordance with contractual terms.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 143 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Area of audit focus Our response to the area of audit focus Monitoring and control of the portfolio income and realised profits on disposal of Group only risk investments is exercised centrally by management in London and therefore we have Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and realised reected this in our audit strategy whereby the London based team perform all audit profits on disposal of investments procedures.
Our procedures extended to testing 77% of the related amount.
Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report We confirmed our understanding of the processes and controls around accounting for pages 75 to 78 : significant accounting policies pages 100 portfolio income and realised gains by performing walkthroughs of the material to 102 : and Notes 2 and 11 of the financial statements processes.
We identied key controls in the process, assessed design adequacy and pages 105 and 111 tested operating effectiveness of those controls.
Realised profits originate from disposals of investments.
We performed detailed testing on a sample of portfolio income transactions to confirm Realised profits are calculated as the difference between whether they had been appropriately recorded in the income statement.
Our tests the net proceeds and the investments fair value at the involved: beginning of the year.
Agreeing dividends and income from the most junior ranked level of CLO capital to Portfolio income is directly attributable to the return from third party support: and investments.
This includes: dividends from investee Recalculating interest income based on the terms of the underlying agreements.
companies: income from the most junior ranked level of For realised gains, on a sample basis, we: CLO investments: and income from loans and receivables.
In general, the calculations are non-complex.
However, Analysed the contract and terms of the sale to determine whether the Group had met the stipulated requirements, conrming that the net proceeds and therefore the there is the risk that investment disposals may be recognised before the significant risks and rewards of realised profit over opening value could be reliably measured: and ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
In addition, Re-performed managements calculations to determine mathematical accuracy and the calculation of portfolio income includes manual confirmed the collection of the net proceeds by agreeing the cash receipt to bank interventions.
What we concluded to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify any matters regarding the recognition of realised profits on disposal of investments and portfolio income.
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms and IFRS.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account the size, risk prole, the organisation of the group and the effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the nature, timing and extent of the audit work to be performed at each entity.
The investment portfolio balance is the most significant part of the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Monitoring and control over the valuation of investments is exercised by management centrally in London, and as such is audited wholly by the UK based audit team.
Monitoring and control over the operations of the other subsidiaries within the Group, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
In all locations where the Group has operations, the UK based audit team audited all items material to the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Materiality is dened as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 44m 2015: 38m, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
We believe that net assets provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality, and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 144 Financial statements Independent Auditors report Performance materiality Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, we set performance materiality at 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 22m 2015: 19m.
This is at the lower end of a range of 50% to 75%.
In arriving at 50%, we considered the judgemental nature of the valuations in the Consolidated statement of financial position, the relative value of transactions recorded in the other primary statements, and to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality of 44m.
Reporting threshold Our reporting threshold is dened as an amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 2m 2015: 1.9m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 65 to 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 145 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in thecourse of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report andaccounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should havebeen disclosed.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: Listing Rules review requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 66 and longer-term viability, set out on page 31: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception: We have no exceptions to report in respect of any of the responsibilities above.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency orLiquidity of the Entity We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in ISAs UK and Ireland relationto: reporting the directors conrmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Conclusion We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above.
Julian Young Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 18 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
