Financial statements Independent auditors' report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Aberdeen Asset Management PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 September 2016: the Group income statement and Group and Company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context The context for our audit is set by Aberdeen Asset Management PLCs the Group major activities in the year ended 30 September 2016, together with the challenging and volatile market conditions and significant pressures in the asset management sector including changing client demands and competitive forces.
In the year, the Group completed three acquisitions: Arden Asset Management Arden, Advance Emerging Capital Advance and Parmenion Capital Partners Parmenion.
The related acquisition accounting was an area of focus for our audit.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 11.6 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring restructuring and acquisition-related items.
The Group is structured into 144 components.
We performed a full scope audit on 5 components due to the contribution they made to Group profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring restructuring and acquisition-related items.
A further 8 components were subject to full scope audit on a risk basis due to the level of revenue generated in each one.
Valuation, impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
com 153 Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation, impairment and amortisation of goodwill and We tested managements impairment review of goodwill, intangible assets indefinite lived intangibles and definite lived intangibles by We focused on this area due to the management judgement performing the following work.
required when assessing impairment triggers and performing We read managements assessment of impairment triggers based detailed impairment reviews.
The Group have three different on the movement in AuM compared to the movement in the categories of intangible assets: carrying value of individual contracts, and did not identify any Goodwill further triggers which had not been considered by management.
Goodwill of 981.7m relates to a number of acquisitions made Specific work we performed over the impairment reviews by the Group.
As is common in the asset management industry, prepared by management included: there is considered to be one cash generating unit CGU within the Group, reflecting the asset management business.
Goodwill comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review is assessed for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with model to approved budgets and business plans, which we found IAS 36 Impairment of assets IAS 36, based on the calculated to be materially consistent: fair value of this CGU.
benchmarking of key assumptions in conjunction with our Indefinite lived intangibles valuation specialists, including the discount rate and inflation Indefinite lived intangibles of 79.3m relate to customer rate against our own internal data and recent public relationships associated with open-ended funds acquired in announcements from other comparable companies.
These intangible assets are assessed for consider the assumptions used by the Group to be reasonable impairment on an annual basis in accordance with IAS 36. and in line with our expectations based on information that is publicly available about other market participants: Definite lived intangibles Customer relationships acquired which have a definite life, are reading managements sensitivity analysis and performed capitalised at fair value and amortised over their estimated additional sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the useful life.
Definite lived intangible assets require an impairment model in order to assess the potential impact of a range of review only if there is an impairment trigger identified.
We identified no reasonably possible current year, management identified an impairment trigger on outcomes which would result in a material impairment charge: the Artio management contracts.
A detailed impairment review assessing the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in was performed which resulted in a reduction in the book value of the cash generating unit, and agreed that all relevant balances these assets by 7.7m, leaving a closing balance of 388.8m.
had been included: and When an impairment review and calculation of any of the above comparing the calculated business valuation to the market assets are performed, there are significant judgements in relation capitalisation of the Group, which demonstrated significant to the assumptions made such as: headroom exists.
Revenue estimates: Through the work outlined above we did not identify any material Growth rates applied: and adjustments to managements recorded impairment charge.
We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments.
Refer to Note 13 to the financial statements.
154 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Acquisition accounting We tested managements acquisition accounting and associated The Group completed three acquisitions in the year: Arden, valuations by performing the following work: Advance and Parmenion for consideration of 11.2m, 14.6m comparing the cash consideration paid to the signed sale and 50.2m respectively.
Management are required to apply and purchase agreements and bank receipt, which agreed judgement to determine the fair value of the consideration without exception.
payable, the identifiable assets and liabilities, and any resultant goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3.
We focused our testing on assessing managements calculation of any contingent the management contracts where there is a higher degree of consideration earn-out liabilities with reference to judgement and estimation required.
approved business plans and comparing growth assumptions to actual growth achieved, which we found to be within a In addition to the acquisitions completed during the year, there are reasonable range.
earn-out liabilities associated with previous acquisitions of SWIP and FLAG which may be payable depending on performance of the in conjunction with our valuation specialists, considering, based underlying businesses.
These are included within the total earn-out on our knowledge of the industry, whether managements liability of 45.1m.
These liabilities are re-assessed at each balance valuation experts had identified all potential intangible assets sheet date based on management estimates and projections.
and we agreed that they had.
We focused on this area due to the significant values and the comparing the assumptions used within the intangible asset nature of the judgements and assumptions management are valuation model to approved budgets and business plans, which required to make in determining the associated fair values.
we found to be materially consistent.
Refer to Note 14 to the financial statements.
confirming the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models and agreeing the calculation of residual goodwill based on the agreed fair values.
in conjunction with our valuation specialists, benchmarking key assumptions, including the discount rate, against our own internal data and recent public announcements from other comparable companies.
We consider the assumptions used by Aberdeen on the whole, to be reasonable and in line with our expectations based on information that is publicly available about other market participants.
Revenue recognition We tested the revenue recognition by performing the following There are three revenue streams: management fees 984.9m, procedures: performance fees 15.8m and transaction fees 6.4m We considering the findings included in the ISAE 3402 reports of focused our testing on management fees due to the material third party administrators and the implications for our audit, nature of the balance.
Our focus was also driven by the relative placing reliance on relevant key controls where appropriate.
complexity of revenue streams, resulting in more testing in the streams with higher levels of complexity.
considering the third party administrator oversight and pricing controls in place within the Group as documented within their The majority of revenue relates to management fees 984.9m, own ISAE 3402 report, placing reliance on relevant key controls which are high volume transactions based on Assets Under where appropriate.
Management AuM and contractual fee rates.
These transactions are generally straightforward in nature.
We focused our audit agreeing a sample of fee rates back to the original Investment effort on the larger revenue streams where there was additional Management Agreement IMA.
complexity due to the structure of customer agreements.
reperforming the management fee calculation based on the Judgement is required in relation to the recognition of source AuM and fee rates, for a sample of funds and clients.
performance fees of 15.8m to assess whether the performance agreeing a sample of transactions to invoice and subsequent criteria has been met at the balance sheet date and we therefore cash receipt.
focused on these fees given the relatively higher level of estimation involved.
reading the relevant clauses of the original contracts relating to the performance fees generated, which we found to be The transactions fees in the year were not material and therefore consistent with the calculation, and assessing the Groups right we did not focus our audit work on these.
to those performance fees which we agreed met the revenue Refer to Note 2 to the financial statements.
com 155 Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The business is structured around 3 key regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : Americas US : and Asia Pacific AsiaPac offering four product ranges: Equities: Fixed Income: Aberdeen Solutions: and Property.
Where possible, client relationship teams are located close to clients and as a result, there are 38 offices globally servicing customers.
For accounting purposes, the Group is structured into 144 reporting units or components.
The Group finance function is based in Aberdeen, supported by key functions in the EMEA, US, and AsiaPac, which are primarily accounted for in Philadelphia, Singapore and UK and Luxembourg respectively.
Our PwC Philadelphia, Singapore and Luxembourg audit teams performed the audit work on their respective components and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team.
Our group scoping was based on total profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring restructuring and acquisition-related items, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified 5 financially significant components, comprising a high proportion of total group profit before tax, which required an audit of their complete financial information.
A further 8 components were identified as significant from a risk perspective due to the level of revenue generated and were subject to a full scope audit.
Additional specified procedures were performed over the pension liabilities in a further 2 components to provide sufficient coverage at the individual financial statement line item FSLI level.
The group team reported to overseas territories to support their local statutory audit work, for those balances which are managed centrally by the Group finance function.
The work performed centrally included our testing on the Group-wide Information Technology General Controls, share-based payment expenses, intercompany balance matching and the recharging of revenue and expenses to other Group companies.
The group team held planning calls with our Philadelphia, Singapore and Luxembourg component teams and attended management meetings with all three regions in advance of the year-end audit.
Regular status update calls were held with all three component teams during the year-end fieldwork, and the group team visited all three locations to attend key client meetings, discuss key findings and observations with the component teams and review component working papers.
Our audit approach provided coverage of 91% of the profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring restructuring and acquisition-related items.
We also obtained 92% coverage over total consolidated assets.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 11.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring restructuring and acquisition-related items of 232.0m.
This reflects the underlying profit before tax of 352.7m as disclosed on page 99 less the amortisation charge of 120.7m in note 13.
We consider the use of this measure to reflect the recurring performance within the business.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
As the Group has been acquisitive during the year and has previously announced a significant cost-reduction exercise, the costs associated with these items are not considered to be recurring costs and have therefore been added back when calculating the overall materiality.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
Where local statutory audits were being performed concurrently with the Group audit, component materiality was set at the statutory materiality level if this was lower than the calculated allocation of materiality.
This resulted in a range of materiality allocated across components between 91,000 and 8 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 580,000 2015: 900,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
156 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 86, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 160, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 61, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
com 157 Independent auditors report to the members of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing or to draw attention to.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
158 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Allan McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 27 November 2016 aberdeen-asset.
