143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 33 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc In our opinion the financial statements: Opinion on financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its return statements of for the year then ended: Aberforth Smaller have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Companies Trust plc Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness Going concern and of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 a to the financial statements and the the directors directors statement on the longer term viability of the Company contained within the strategic report on assessment of the page 5.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: principal risks that the directors' confirmation on page 5 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal would threaten risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, the solvency or solvency or liquidity: liquidity of the the disclosures on page 5 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Company the directors statement on page 20 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 5 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and Independence confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our Our assessment of audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
risks of material misstatement Risk Title Risk Description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Valuation and The listed investments of the We have performed the following procedures to address No misstatements were ownership of Company 1,253m 2015: this risk: identified which investments 1,196m make up 102.7% of required reporting to critically assessed the design and implementation of the total net assets 1,220m those charged with controls over valuation and ownership of investments: 2015: 1,192m.
Please see governance in regards to agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on Accounting Policy b and the valuation of the the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices note 9. portfolio.
published by an independent pricing source: Investments listed on We did not identify any agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at recognised exchanges are differences when the year end to confirmation received directly from the valued at the closing bid price agreeing the Companys custodian and depositary: and at the year end.
investment portfolio to reviewed the internal controls report over Northern There is a risk that the confirmation Trust, as it applied to custody and attended the Audit investments may not be received directly from Committee meeting at which the Northern Trust valued correctly or may not the custodian and controls report was evaluated to assess the adequacy of represent the property of the depositary.
the design and implementation of controls at the Company.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 33 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report Risk Title Risk Description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Revenue Dividends from equity shares We have performed the following procedures to address No misstatements were Recognition: totalling 39m 2015: 38m this risk: identified which Completeness are accounted for on an exrequired reporting to reviewed the design and implementation of controls of Dividend dividend date as revenue, those charged with over revenue recognition including the Managers Income except where: in the opinion governance in regards to monitoring of accuracy and completeness of revenue: of the Board, the dividend is the completeness of for a sample of listed investments, obtained excapital in nature, in which dividend income.
dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during case it is treated as a return the year and agreed the amounts recorded within the Accounting policies in of capital.
Please see general ledger to confirm that the recognition policy relation to revenue Accounting Policy c and has been applied consistently: and recognition were found note 2. to be in line with FRS agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank There is a risk that revenue is statements.
102, the SORP and incomplete and consequently industry peers.
the revenue recognised in the financial statements is misstated.
Revenue allocation is no longer included in the revenue recognition key risk because the special dividend balance is not material in the current year.
Otherwise, the risks described above are the same risks as identified in the prior year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 26.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable Our application of that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We materiality use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 12.2m 2015: 11.9m, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 244,000 2015: 238,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal An overview of the control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material scope of our audit misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We note that the accounting and administration for the Company has been outsourced to Aberforth Partners LLP Aberforth as administrator.
As part of our audit we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in place at Aberforth.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Opinion on other the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in matters prescribed accordance with the Companies Act 2006: by the Companies the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which Act 2006 the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequacy of explanations received and accounting we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or records adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
34 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Independent Auditors Report Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Statement to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our information in the Annual opinion, information in the annual report is: Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the Respective preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibilities of responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard directors and auditor on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Scope of the audit of sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, the financial whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are statements appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 27 January 2017 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aberforth Partners LLP web site is the responsibility of the partners of Aberforth Partners LLP: the work carried out by the auditor of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 35
