finAnciAl stAteMents independent auditors report to the MeMbers of acacia Mining plc report on the group financial StatementS our audit approach overview our opinion In our opinion, acacia Mining plcs Group financial statements the materiality Overall Group materiality: uS$7.4 million which financial statements : represents approximately 5% of three-year give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at average profit before tax adjusted for items 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year included within Other Income as presented then ended: on the face of the consolidated income statement and detailed within note 9. have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European audit scope We identified three mine sites located in union: and Tanzania which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies act 2006 and article 4 of the IaS Regulation.
We conducted audit procedures in London, South africa and Tanzania.
what we have audited Taken together, the territories and functions The financial statements, included within the annual Report and where we performed our audit work accounted accounts the annual Report, comprise: for 100% of revenue and approximately 93% of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: numerical values without regard to whether the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement they were profits or losses for the relevant of comprehensive income for the year then ended: territories and functions.
the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: areas of focus Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then assets and property, plant and equipment.
ended: and Taxation including provisions for uncertain the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of deferred tax positions and the recoverability significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the scope of our audit and our areas of focus These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards identified as audited.
on auditing uK and Ireland ISas uK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we the European union, and applicable law.
looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
as in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table overleaf.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 109 independent auditors report to the MeMbers of acacia Mining plc CONTINuED area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets In assessing the valuation of the CGus, we evaluated managements and property, plant & equipment future cash flow forecasts for each CGu, and the process by which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of the Refer to page 72 audit Committee report, page 51 critical accounting cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure estimates and judgements, page 120 principal accounting policies and to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved life of Note 6. mine plans.
acacia Mining has goodwill of uS$127.9 million, indefinite-lived intangible For each CGu we used our valuation specialists to assist us in assets of uS$88.3 million and property, plant and equipment of evaluating the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in uS$1,443.2 million as at 31 December 2016, primarily contained within managements valuation models, including both short-term and long-term the following cash generating units CGus : Bulyanhulu, North Mara, gold prices, and discount rates.
We satisfied ourselves that the gold and Buzwagi.
price assumptions used in determining the recoverable amount are The Bulyanhulu CGu, which has a carrying value of uS$1,231.8 million, within a reasonable observable range, however noted that the discount includes goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and therefore must rates used are at the low end of the observable range.
be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management determined that We assessed managements future forecasts of capital and operating the recoverable amount of the CGu including the goodwill exceeded the expenses included in the cash flow forecasts in light of the historical carrying value.
accuracy of such forecasts and the current operational results and found Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets these to be reasonable.
including property, plant and equipment when indicators of impairment or We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the impairment reversal are identified.
cash flow models using a range of higher discount rates and different at the end of 2016, the Buzwagi and North Mara CGus had a carrying value long-term gold prices based on what, in our view, a market participant of $97.2 million and $246.2 million respectively.
Impairments were historically recognised at the North Mara CGu in 2013 Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that the Bulyanhulu model is sensitive uS$307.3 million, and at the Buzwagi CGu in 2013 and 2015 uS$690.5 to changes in discount rate, however a reasonable possible change in million and uS$188.7 million respectively.
Having considered the original assumptions did not remove headroom or result in impairment.
We factors that led to the impairments, the performance in the current year and satisfied ourselves that this was appropriately highlighted within the the latest life of mine plans for these CGus, management has not reversed disclosures in Note 6. any of the historic impairment charges.
With regards to reversal of previously recognised impairments, we The determination of recoverable amount was based on the higher of considered the factors that led to the initial impairments: namely value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, which requires judgement fundamental changes in the mine plans and a significant decrease in on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGus.
We satisfied ourselves that the increase in recoverable amount in the current year at North Mara and Buzwagi did Recoverable amounts are based on managements views of variables such not arise from a reversal of these factors.
We consider managements as future commodity prices, the most appropriate discount rate and timing decision not to reverse the impairments as appropriate.
and approval of future capital and operating expenditure.
Based on managements assessment of carrying value, the headroom at the Bulyanhulu CGu decreased compared to the prior year as a result of a reduction in reserves from the life of mine plan, whereas the headroom at North Mara and Buzwagi has increased primarily as a result of increased grade.
110 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus taxation including provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions and the We have read correspondence between Management and the Tanzanian recoverability of indirect taxes Revenue authority, including the results of the tax assessments completed during the year, and assessed managements position in Refer to page 72 audit Committee report, page 51 critical accounting relation to the specific matters under review.
estimates and judgements, page 120 principal accounting policies and Note 33.
In relation to deferred tax, we also assessed the availability of estimated future taxable income to utilise recognised carry forward losses and the The Group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year reversal of temporary deferred tax differences, by comparing the tax loss assessments some of which are in dispute with the Tanzanian estimates to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Revenue authority.
We satisfied ourselves that support for the recognition In addition, the Group has recorded significant indirect tax receivables, of the deferred tax balances was consistent with the forecasts used of which a material amount has not been refunded in a timely manner.
elsewhere in the business, and was reasonable.
These receivables have been classified as current in 2017 due to the offset We also assessed the recoverability of the indirect tax receivable based process agreed with the Tanzanian Revenue authority under a Memorandum on payments received to date and confirmation that the Memorandum of Settlement.
of Settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue authority exists and is operating effectively.
We considered the classification of the indirect tax receivable as a current asset and satisfied ourselves that it was appropriate based on the forecasted usage in 2017.
We examined the annual Report disclosures and confirmed the risk associated with recovery was appropriately highlighted how we tailored the audit scope materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on Group operates.
the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the The Groups assets and operations are primarily located at three mine financial statements as a whole.
sites in Tanzania, representing the Groups three CGus noted above.
Financial reporting processes related to the activities of these mine sites Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the are undertaken at shared business centres SBCs located in Dar es financial statements as a whole as follows: Salaam and Johannesburg.
overall group uS$7.4 million 2015: uS$5.7 million.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined materiality the type of work that is needed to be performed at each of the three how we approximately 5% of three-year average profit before tax mine sites and the SBCs by us, as the Group engagement team, and determined it adjusted for items included within Other Income as by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under presented on the face of the consolidated income our instruction.
We requested that full scope audits were performed at statement and detailed within note 9. each of the three main mine sites which included the relevant SBC.
In addition, we conducted other audit procedures in London, South africa rationale for This year, there continues to be volatility resulting from and Tanzania, including specified procedures performed by a component benchmark movements in the gold market.
To eliminate this volatility, audit team in South africa over exploration expenses incurred within applied our materiality benchmark is calculated on average acacia Exploration Kenya.
Where the work was performed by component adjusted profit over the last three years.
We continued auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in to determine materiality based on 5% of our chosen the audit work at those sites and SBCs to be able to conclude whether benchmark.
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the audit Committee that we would report to them Involvement of the Group engagement team included attendance at misstatements identified during our audit above uS$1 million 2015: acacias South african offices, conference calls and meetings with the uS$1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in Tanzanian audit team, review of the Tanzanian auditor work papers, our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
attendance at local audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance of the accounting and audit issues arising.
Mine sites are visited on a rotational basis.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 100% of revenue and approximately 93% of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant territories and functions.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 111 independent auditors report to the MeMbers of acacia Mining plc CONTINuED going concern the directors assessment of the prospects of the group under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern.
We have or liquidity of the group nothing to report having performed our review.
under ISas uK & Ireland we are required to report to under ISas uK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have you if we have anything material to add or to draw anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the attention to in relation to: Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to the Directors confirmation on page 68 of the We have nothing adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust or to draw as noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, attention to.
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial including those that would threaten its business statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it the disclosures in the annual Report that describe We have nothing to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were those risks and explain how they are being material to add signed.
as part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of managed or mitigated.
or to draw the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future attention to.
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the Directors explanation on page 29 of the annual We have nothing Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the material to add other required reporting Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects or to draw of the Group, over what period they have done so attention to.
consistency of other information and compliance with and why they consider that period to be appropriate, applicable requirements and their statement as to whether they have a companies act 2006 reporting reasonable expectation that the Group will be able In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Report they fall due over the period of their assessment, for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared including any related disclosures drawing attention is consistent with the financial statements: and to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the Strategic report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking in this respect.
that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the iSas uk & ireland reporting knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
under ISas uK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequacy of information and explanations received information in the annual Report is: We have no under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in exceptions materially inconsistent with the information our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations to report.
in the audited financial statements: or we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of directors remuneration the Group acquired in the course of performing under the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our our audit: or opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 71, We have no in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the uK exceptions corporate governance statement Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they to report.
under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the consider the annual Report taken as a whole to be Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Code.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual Report on page 72, as We have no required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing exceptions the work of the audit Committee does not to report.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit Committee.
112 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 finAnciAl stAteMents reSponSibilitieS for the financial StatementS other matter and the audit We have reported separately on the parent company financial our responsibilities and those of the directors statements of acacia Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 as explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is out on page 102, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the described as having been audited.
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISas uK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for auditors.
jonathan lambert Senior Statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Chartered accountants and Statutory auditors the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 London of Part 16 of the Companies act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do 7 March 2017 not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
what an audit of financial statements involves an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 113
