Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Admiral Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Admiral Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the parent company financial statements have been properly of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted December 2016 and of the groups and the parent companys Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure profit for the year then ended: Framework: and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes of Comprehensive Income: in Equity: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements the related notes 1 to 12 to the Group financial statements: and of Financial Position: the related notes 1 to 6 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks Materiality The key risks that we identified in the current year were: The materiality that we used in the current year was 14 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of pre-tax profit.
Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves Calculation of profit commission income Scoping We have identified five reporting components which we consider are of individual financial significance to the groups reported results and these components were subjected to audits for group reporting purposes.
Additionally, we have completed specific audit procedures in respect of two further components which, although not financially significant, did present specific audit risks which needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our audit procedures account for 94% of the groups pre-tax profits and losses, 87% of revenue and 95% of the groups net assets.
Going concern & the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have nothing appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial material to add or draw attention statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained to in respect of these matters.
within the governance report on page 61.
We agreed with the directors We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did the directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the not identify any such material principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future uncertainties.
However, because not performance, solvency or liquidity: all future events or conditions can the disclosures on pages 40 to 43 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed be predicted, this statement is not or mitigated: a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 61 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
82 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and We confirm that we are independent confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities of the group and we have fulfilled in accordance with those standards.
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The key risks identified this year are in line with those identified by the previous auditor in 2015.
Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves Risk description The groups gross insurance claims reserves total 2,031 million 2015: 1,725 million.
The judgements which are made by management in determining the valuation of incurred but not reported IBNR claims reserves are by far the most significant, in terms of their impact on the Groups financial position.
Setting these claims reserves is an inherently subjective exercise and small changes in underlying assumptions may have a material impact on the overall year end result reported.
We have identified a key risk of misstatement in respect of managements selection of assumptions and estimates underpinning the incurred but not reported IBNR claims reserves, specifically around periodic payment orders PPOs and the ultimate severity of large bodily injury claims arising in the UK Car Insurance business.
These particular claims result in higher individual claims reserves and are more judgmental in terms of the development of the ultimate losses which will be incurred due to the longer-term nature of the Groups exposure than the lower value attritional losses which are more common in the normal course of business.
Following the conclusion of the governments consultation on the Ogden discount rate used by courts to calculate the value of lump sum claims to be paid for long-term damages, management needed also to consider the interaction of this change with the assumed propensity of PPO settlements.
The timing of the announced rate change from 2.5% to minus 0.75%, on 27 February 2017, meant that there was a high degree of uncertainty associated with projecting the ultimate impact of this change: given that no subsequent experience has yet emerged.
Refer to page 56 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue, note 5d and note 3 in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope of We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls our audit responded which management performs in relation to insurance reserving.
This included testing controls over the data to the risk provided to the groups external actuarial expert, the internal challenge of that experts work, and the appropriate governance oversight in determining the key assumptions for both the actuarial best estimates and the additional margin applied above the best estimate reserve.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying claims and exposure data used in the actuarial calculations by performing reconciliations of the relevant data back to audited financial information.
We completed procedures to assess the competence and objectivity of managements external actuarial expert and involved our own Deloitte actuarial experts to review and provide challenge on the methodology applied and the key assumptions and judgements taken in determining the gross insurance reserves noted above as significant risks.
Our challenge focussed on benchmarking the claims severity assumptions adopted by the group against our wider industry experience to assess suitability, evaluating the reserve releases and development trends from previous accident years, to verify the robustness of the reserving policy adopted, and understanding the year-on-year consistency in determining the reserve margins.
Finally, we have reviewed the specific adjustments made to refine the actuarial models for the change in Ogden discount rate and considered the related changes in PPO propensity assumptions.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group plc Calculation of profit commission income Risk description We have identified a risk in revenue recognition in respect of the profit commission class of income.
This revenue line contributed 54.3m to group profit before tax in the year 2015: 85.4m and is recorded on the basis of managements year end calculations, which are subject to the same underlying estimation as the insurance claims reserves.
There is, therefore, a greater risk associated with this class of transactions than more automated revenue streams which are recorded at source through a large number of individually insignificant transactions.
Amongst the most significant inputs to the calculations are the loss ratios resulting from the gross insurance reserves booked in the financial statements, which is discussed as a separate risk, above.
This is because the setting of reserves will affect the claims incurred in a given underwriting year, thus driving the loss ratios which determine the amount of profit commission to be recognised in the year.
Refer to page 57 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue, note 5c and note 3 in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope of In addition to the procedures outlined above in respect of the valuation of insurance reserves, we reviewed our audit responded the profit commission calculation in detail, and compared the calculation logic and the inputs included by to the risk management to the terms of the relevant co-insurance contracts in force at the balance sheet date.
On the basis of this understanding of the contractual terms, we independently formed an expectation for the recorded income using audited loss ratios and expenses data and compared this to that actually recorded by management.
Following the announcement of the new Ogden rate, we reassessed the profit commission calculation to test the loss ratios being used in the final calculations had been adjusted for the impact of the Ogden rate change.
We have also assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of the internal review controls performed by management, which are designed to identify any errors in the inputs or mechanical workings of the calculations.
Finally, we vouched the settlement of profit commissions during the year to cash receipts on bank statements and used this to reconcile the income recorded to the movement in the balance sheet position associated with these arrangements.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
84 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 14 million 2015: 16 million was used by the previous auditors.
Basis for determining In 2015, the previous auditors set materiality at 4% of pre-tax profit.
materiality Rationale for the We consider profit before taxation to be the critical benchmark of the performance of the group and consider this benchmark applied measure to be suitable having compared to other benchmarks: our materiality equates to 1% of gross earned premium and 2% of equity.
We determine performance materiality at a level lower than Group Materiality materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, 14m uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Group performance materiality was set at 70% of Group materiality for the 2016 audit.
PBT 278m Component We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Materiality Range report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 660k 11.8m 0.7m 2015: 0.8m was used by the previous auditors, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report Audit Committee to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we Reporting Threshold identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 0.7m financial statements.
PBT Group Materiality Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Financial Statements: Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group plc An overview of the scope of our audit The financially significant components of the group which were identified in our audit planning are Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited, Admiral Insurance Company Limited, EUI Limited, Inspop.
com Limited and the Admiral Group plc parent entity itself.
In 2015, the previous auditor also identified five significant reporting components.
Each of these components was subjected to a full-scope audit for group reporting purposes, completed to individual component materiality levels which ranged from 660,000 to 11.8m the previous auditor disclosed the following range in 2015: 480,000 to 14m, dependent upon the relative significance of each individual component.
Additionally, we have completed specific audit procedures, designed to address specific audit risks, for the Elephant Insurance Company and Inspop USA LLC components of the group, each of which is a subsidiary company incorporated in the USA.
Accordingly, we engaged a local component auditor, the Deloitte member firm in the USA, to perform these specified audit procedures on our behalf.
We directed and supervised the work of the component auditor, including through visits to the component and component auditor and remote communication and review of their work.
For the remaining components not subject to audit or specified audit procedures, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to reassess our evaluation that there were no significant risks of material misstatement presented by any of these components.
There are several non-significant components including branch operations in Europe: the branches in Spain and Italy were visited this year by members of the group engagement team and, to enhance our risk assessment and understanding of the group in our first year as group auditor, we assessed the design and implementation of key controls in key business cycles in these and the French branches.
6% 13% 5% 11% 6% 5% Profits Revenue Net Assets and losses before tax 82% 83% 89% Full audit scope Within audit scope Full audit scope Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures Review at group level Review at group level Review at group level Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
86 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors We have nothing to remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in report arising from agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the We have nothing to companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, We confirm that we in our opinion, information in the annual report is: have not identified any such inconsistencies or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or misleading statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark McQueen ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 March 2017 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87
