122 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Independent auditors report to the members of Aggreko plc only A SUMMARY OF OUR APPROACH Opinions and conclusions arising fromouraudit 1 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL Full audit coverage: STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Aggreko Plc for 90% of pbt the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 126 to 175.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 2 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Materiality: inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: 5% of pbt the parent company financial statements have been properly before exceptionals prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 3 IAS Regulation.
Audit coverage: valuation of PS Utility receivables and tax 1 Our audit covered 90% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptionals and was carried out in Glasgow, Dubai, Russia, Argentina, Houston and Brazil.
2 Overall Group materiality: 11 million which represents 5% of profit before tax this year before exceptional items.
3 The valuation of Power Systems Utility receivables and the provisioning for tax in overseas locations are the areas of most significant audit effort given  in these areas.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 123 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect onouraudit in decreasing order of audit signicance, were as follows: The area of focus Our approach Valuation of Power Solutions Utility overdue receivables 261 million, 2015: 196 million : Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 135 accounting policy and pages 136 and 148 financial disclosures The Group has significant trade Our audit procedures included testing the Groups controls over the receivables collection receivables with customers of the processes and considering the receipt of cash after the year end.
We selected customers Groups Power Solutions Utility business of the Power Solutions Utility business for review to ensure we covered more than 75% where customers operate in higher risk of the overdue amounts receivable in relation to that business at the year end.
For these territories, including territories where risk customers, we discussed with the Directors experience of collections in relevant countries, of customer default the customer often sought evidence of the status of receivables from the latest communications with the being the government is high.
In these relevant customer including deposits and guarantees where available and challenged the provisioning in light of this information, the Groups experience historically and our territories, cash receipts are volatile and unpredictable, resulting in significant knowledge of in-country exposures.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in this area.
judgement being applied in the Groupsassessment of the recoverability of these receivables.
Taxation provisions for significant potential or contentious tax assessments 39 million, 2015: 61 million : Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 134 accounting policy and pages 136 and 143 financial disclosures Accruals for tax contingencies require Our audit procedures included: the Directors to make judgements and Together with our own tax specialists, we considered any large or unusual items estimates in relation to tax risks.
This is affectingthe effective tax rate and whether or not any current year items would one of the key judgemental areas that indicatearequirement for further accruals.
our audit is concentrated on due to the Group operating in a certain tax In considering the judgements and estimates of tax accruals, we used our own tax jurisdictions and the complexities and specialists including local tax team input where necessary to assess and challenge uncertainties of local and international theGroups tax positions.
This included the assessment of its correspondence with the tax legislation.
relevant tax authorities, the Groups external tax advisers and third parties.
We also used our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation The tax matters are at various stages, by the relevant authorities and courts in order to challenge the positions taken by from preliminary discussions with tax the Directors.
authorities through to tax tribunal or court proceedings where the matters We also analysed and challenged through our use of tax specialists with knowledge of can take many years to resolve.
The risk thespecic tax regimes in question the assumptions used to determine the tax accruals to the financial statements is that the and tested the accuracy of calculations.
eventual resolution of a matter with tax We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups tax disclosures.
authorities is at an amount materially different to the accrual.
124 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION Independent auditors report 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY SCOPING OF OUR AUDIT AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE % Revenue by scope OFOUR AUDIT % Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 1 2 set at 11 million.
Materiality is determined with reference to a 1 Specic risk focused audit benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude the procedures over revenue 3 exceptional items.
Our materiality was based on profit before 2 Scoped out of our audit 25 tax and exceptional items of 221 million, of which it represents 3 3 Full audit 72 5%.
We have chosen profit before tax before exceptional items because it excludes the non-recurring distortingimpact of exceptional items such as reorganisation costs and impairment charges.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identied exceeding 500,000, % profit before tax by scope inaddition to anyother identied misstatements that warranted % reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and 12 agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale 3 1 Specic risk focused audit ofoperations, adjustments under this level were not deemed procedures over revenue 1 tobe of specic interestto them.
2 Scoped out of our audit 9 The Group audit team instructed component auditors in 3 Full audit 90 Argentina, Brazil, and Russia as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
In addition, the Group audit team instructed audit teams in Dubai and Singapore to complete aspects of work in support of the work the Group team completed in the US and UK over the most significant components.
% Net assets by scope We completed specic risk focused audit procedures over revenue % at one component in Mozambique.
The Group audit team 12 1 Specic risk focused audit approved the component materialities, which were set in the 3 procedures over revenue 1 range from 7 million to 9 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk prole of the Group across the components.
The Group 2 Scoped out of our audit 16 team performed procedures on the items excluded from Group 3 Full audit 83 profit before tax and exceptional items.
The components not included were not individually nancially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, and did not presentspecic individual risks that needed tobe addressed.
The Group audit team visited the component location in Dubai, The remaining 25% of total Group revenue, 9% of Group profit including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone calls before tax and 16% of total Group assets is represented by a were alsoheld with the component auditors in Argentina, Brazil, number ofreporting components, none of which individually Dubai and Russia.
On these calls, the findings reported to the represented more than 4% of any of total Group revenue, Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further Groupprot before tax ortotal Group assets.
work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor as relevant.
The Group team remotely reviewed the work completed by the team in Dubai.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 125 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In our opinion: received from branches not visited by us: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the parent company financial statements and the part of has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Act 2006: and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the information given in the Strategic Report and the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the are not made: or financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the require for our audit.
courseof the audit of the financial statements and from readingthe Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we have not identied material misstatements in those reports: the Directors Statements, set out on pages 132 and 61, and inrelation to going concern and longer-term viability: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on with the Companies Act 2006. pages70 to83 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11provisions ofthe2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Scope and responsibilities nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Directors statement of risk factors that could affect Statement set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible financial performance on page 61, concerning the principal for the preparation of the financial statements and for being risks, theirmanagement, and, based on that, the Directors satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on operation overthethree years to 2019: or the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements concerning members as a body and is subject to important explanations the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, publishedon our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are 6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be readto provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
John Luke In particular, we are required to report to you if: Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor we have identied material inconsistencies between the Chartered Accountants knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors 319 St Vincent Street statement thatthey consider that the annual report and Glasgow financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and G2 5AS understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
