Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC Opinion on financial statements of Alliance Trust PLC In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and the Companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise the Group and Company: income statements: statements of comprehensive income: statements of changes in equity: balance sheets: cash flow statement: and related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Key risks valuation and ownership of listed investments: and valuation of unlisted investments.
All risks within this report are in line with prior year.
The materiality that we used in the current year was 32.8m which was determined on the basis of 1% of Materiality net asset value.
There have been no significant changes to our audit approach since the prior year.
Significant changes in our approach Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of We confirm that we have the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors nothing material to add statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Directors Report on page 37. or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We agreed with the the directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal directors adoption of the risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, going concern basis of solvency or liquidity: accounting and we did the disclosures on pages 22 to 23 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed not identify any such or mitigated: material uncertainties.
the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it However, because appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification not all future events of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve or conditions can be months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and predicted, this statement the directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, is not a guarantee as over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their to the Groups ability statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to continue as a in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any going concern.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 48 I II III Financial Statements Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and We confirm that we are confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in independent of the accordance with those standards.
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Title Risk Description How the scope of our audit Key observations responded to the risk Valuation and Listed investments represent the We assessed the design and No misstatements were ownership most significant number on the implementation controls over identified which required of listed balance sheet and are the main driver valuation and existence of listed reporting to those charged investments of the Groups performance.
with governance in regards investments 3,257m 2015: 3,089m to the valuation of the We reviewed Controls Reports represented 92% of total assets of listed investments.
relating to Custody and Investment the Group at 31 December 2016 Accounting provided by Bank of We did not identify any 2015: 87% see notes 9 and 23.
differences when agreeing There is a risk that the prices quoted the Groups investment We confirmed 100% of the portfolio portfolio to the confirmation in respect of the listed investments of listed investments to confirmations held by the Group may not be received directly from the received directly from the custodian custodian and depositary.
There is a risk over the recording and We confirmed 100% of the valuation custody of listed investments and of the listed investments to whether listed investments recorded independent pricing sources.
are the property of the Group.
Alliance T Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 rust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 49 49 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC continued Risk Title Risk Description How the scope of our audit Key observations responded to the risk Valuation Unlisted investments of 217m We assessed the design and No misstatements of unlisted 2015: 221m are valued at implementation of controls around were identified which the Directors best estimate of fair the valuation of unlisted investments.
required reporting to those investments value using the guidelines and In addition we tailored our substantive charged with governance methodologies on valuation testing to reflect the different in regards to the valuation published by the International categories of unlisted investments of the unlisted investments.
Private Equity and Venture Capital held in the portfolio see note 23.
Association and, where relevant the Subsidiaries use of external valuers and may take We reviewed and challenged account of recent arms length managements and external transactions.
see Audit and Risk valuations for a sample of unlisted Committee report on page 33 and investments, focusing on the notes 9 and 23 appropriateness of the valuation There are key inputs to the valuation methodology and assumptions used calculations which reflect the within the calculations e. g. cash Directors, external valuers and flow projections: growth projections: Investment Managers judgement discount rate used.
We also see note 23.8. considered how recent developments and actual performance are reflected There is a risk that the application in the future projections.
As part of an inappropriate valuation of our testing we liaised with our methodology and or the use of internal valuation experts.
inappropriate assumptions could result in the valuation of unlisted Unlisted Equities investments being materially We obtained valuation papers for the misstated.
unlisted investments and reviewed the minutes of the Valuation Committee.
We considered and challenged whether the assumptions made by the Manager were reasonable and confirmed that the unlisted investments had been valued on a consistent basis.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 32.8m 2015: 29.5m, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 657,000 2015: 589,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since the prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Our Group audit scope included the audit of all subsidiaries and these were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2016 and was performed directly by the audit engagement team Audits were performed for local statutory purposes at a local materiality level calculated by reference to the scale of the business concerned.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at Alliance Trust Investments Limited the Manager who prepares the financial statements of the Group.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 50 I II III Financial Statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating these matters.
to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our identified any such opinion, information in the annual report is: inconsistencies materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or or misleading apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group statements.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Alliance T Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 rust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 51 51 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Alliance Trust PLC continued Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 23 March 2017 Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 52
