Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: X the Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: X the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: X the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Balance sheet Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Related Notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Related Notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach X Risks of material misstatement New in 2016 Preparation of the financial statements using the going concern basis X Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions X Goodwill and intangible asset impairment X Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets and recognition of Research and Development tax credits X Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos Audit scope X We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 31 components X The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 92% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items and 96% of Revenue Materiality X Overall Group materiality of 9m which represents 5% of profit before taxes adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler 94 Annual report and accounts 2016 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Appropriateness of adopting the Going Concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements Refer to the Strategic Report page 45 : the Audit We read managements assessment of the Companys ability to continue We are satisfied that Committee Report page 67 : Note 1 of the Group as a going concern.
having assessed the financial statements.
appropriateness of We understood the key assumptions underpinning the Groups forecasts managements forecasts, The Company has taken steps to reduce its debt and assessed whether they are appropriate by considering the Groups and given a signed including the disposal of non-core assets, cost historical performance and the current market conditions.
Covenant Amendment savings measures and suspending dividend We assessed the historical accuracy of managements forecasts by Letter which increases payments until sustainable free cash flow is being comparing the actual result to forecasts.
We assessed the adequacy of the leverage covenant generated.
We focused on this area because the sensitivities and stress testing applied to forecasts and the underlying ratio to 4.5:1 for periods up despite the actions taken to date, there is a risk key assumptions.
to and including June 2018 that the leverage ratio will exceed the maximum has been obtained by the leverage ratio under the Debt Facility Arrangement We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the cash flow model and the related Company, the adoption of 3.75:1 in the measurement period ended financial covenant forecasts.
of the going concern 30 June 2017 and in subsequent periods.
We agreed the Companys committed debt facilities, including financial basis of accounting in the As described in Note 1 to the financial statements covenant terms and the timing of early repayment in the event there is preparation of the financial an amendment to the banking covenants was a breach, to facility agreements and amendments.
This increases the We inspected the Covenant Amendment Letter approved on 10 April 2017.
The disclosures made leverage covenant ratio to 4.5:1 for measurement in the Annual Report and periods up to and including June 2018.
We considered whether the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts Accounts with respect relating to going concern are fair, balanced and understandable.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood to the Companys ability of occurrence and the size of an error should it to continue as a going occur has increased compared to the prior year.
Appropriateness of revenue recognition on contracts and adequacy of contract related provisions Refer to the Strategic Report page 29 : the Audit We tested internal financial controls over the calculation of revenue, Overall, we are satisfied Committee Report page 66 : Critical accounting including those used to determine the percentage of completion for fixed that the Groups policies and the use of judgements, estimates and price contracts.
accounting policies for assumptions page 113 and Note 3 of the Group revenue recognition and For a sample of contracts, we challenged management in respect of financial statements.
contract related provisions the reasonableness of judgements made regarding the cost to complete are reasonable and For the year ended 31 December 2016, revenue estimate, the timing of the recognition of variation orders and claims and the have been appropriately recorded was 5.4bn.
appropriateness of assumptions made in estimating warranty provisions.
The valuation of We tested the arithmetical accuracy of cost to complete calculations, We focused on this area because there is a contract risk provisions agreed key contractual terms back to signed contracts, discussed and risk that due to the complexity associated with at 31 December 2016 corroborated key judgements with various levels of management including accounting for long term contracts and the is within an acceptable project managers and inspected third party correspondence in the case of judgements involved in determining contract range of potential variation orders and claims where appropriate.
For a sample of lump-sum provisions, the Groups financial statements outcomes based on the contracts, we re-performed the calculation of the revenue taken in the year could be misstated.
facts and circumstances based on the percentage of completion.
Specific risks over revenue recognition include We challenged managements assessment of the adequacy of contingency inappropriate percentage of completion provisions against contract specific risks and its assessments around accounting, inappropriate recognition of the potential for liquidated damages for projects with delays.
For those variation orders and claims and inappropriate contracts subject to claims, we have made enquires of internal and determination of recoverable costs.
external legal counsel to assess the adequacy of and corroborate the Specific risks over contract related provisions position taken by management.
include unrecorded liabilities for contractual We have understood managements assessment of the recoverability of disputes and inappropriate application of aged work in progress and receivables.
For a sample of balances, we tested the Groups policy for aged work in progress the arithmetical accuracy of the aging of work in progress and receivables.
We performed audit procedures on the recoverability of a sample of trade The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood receivable balances by obtaining customer confirmations and subsequent of occurrence and the size of an error should cash receipts where appropriate.
We performed audit procedures on a it occur is consistent with the prior year.
sample of unbilled work in progress balances by assessing the companys calculations and subsequent invoicing.
We assessed whether the Groups accounting policies have been appropriately applied.
We have assessed whether managements policies and processes for making these estimates are appropriate, in accordance with IAS 37 and consistently applied.
This page does not form part of Amec Foster Wheelers annual report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 95 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Goodwill and intangible asset impairment Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 67 : We tested internal financial controls over the goodwill and intangible assets The impairments Critical accounting policies and the use of impairment process including the determination of assumptions used recognised in respect of judgements, estimates and assumptions within the models to assess the recoverable amount.
the goodwill and intangible page 113 and Note 12 of the Group assets allocated to GPG, We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models and confirmed the financial statements.
Americas, AMEASE CGUs identified are the lowest level at which management monitors and NECIS have been The total carrying value of goodwill at the year end goodwill.
We performed audit procedures over the assumptions used in appropriately determined.
This reflects impairments of 289m respect of forecast growth rates and involved our valuation specialists to recorded in the year.
Of this, 214m has been corroborate the appropriateness of the discount and growth rates used The carrying value of recorded against the carrying value of goodwill in by reference to third party source data.
We have verified that the profit goodwill and intangible the Global Power Group GPG cash generating forecasts used in the valuation models are consistent with those reviewed assets at the year end unit CGU and 75m in the Americas CGU.
and approved by the board.
An impairment has arisen as the recoverable We have evaluated the profit forecasts used within the models We agree with amount of the GPG and Americas CGUs was against current trading conditions and validated the key assumptions management that a less than the carrying value of the investment.
underpinning the forecasts are consistent with our findings from other reasonably possible The total carrying value of other intangible areas of the audit.
change in assumptions assets at the year end is 0.5bn.
This is following would result in further We performed sensitivity analysis by stress testing the valuation models, impairments of 211m in the year, the most impairment losses in to determine the degree to which the assumptions would need to move significant of which relate to customer relationship the Americas cash before an impairment would be triggered.
Of this, 32m has been recorded in the generating unit and GPG segment, 125m in the Americas segment, that the additional 14m in AMEASE and 40m in Northern Europe sensitivity disclosures in and CIS NECIS.
Impairments in the carrying Note 12 comply with the value of these intangible assets have arisen requirements of IAS 36. following a downturn in trading meaning the recoverable amounts of these assets was less than their carrying values.
We focused on these areas given the significant judgements and complexity of valuation methodologies requiring the use of estimates used to determine whether the carrying value of goodwill and customer relationships is appropriate.
These include the assumptions used within models to support the recoverable amount of goodwill and intangible assets.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of occurrence and the size of an error should it occur is the same as the prior year.
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets and recognition of Research and Development tax credits Refer to the Audit Committee Report We tested internal financial controls over the determination of uncertain We are satisfied page 67 and Notes 8 and 15 of the Group tax provisions.
We also tested internal financial controls over the that the provisions financial statements.
recognition of deferred tax assets and assets relating to research recorded in respect and development tax credits.
of tax risks are within We focused on the risk arising from tax planning an acceptable range.
given the significant judgements involved in We challenged the valuation of tax exposures estimated by management.
assessing the appropriateness of the valuation Using our tax experts, we evaluated the range and quantum of risks The carrying value of and completeness of uncertain tax positions associated with these exposures along with claims or assessments assets relating to deferred including those relating to the financing made by tax authorities to date.
We have also inspected documentation tax and research and structures the Group has in place in Canada in relation to tax audits to ensure that exposures the tax authorities are development tax credits and the United States.
raising have been considered and provided for where necessary.
are within an acceptable range at the year end.
We focus on the recognition of certain deferred We have challenged the profit forecasts used by management in tax assets and assets relating to research and determining the quantum and period over which deferred tax assets development tax credits as both these areas and assets held in respect of research and development tax credits will involve judgement in the assessment of the be recovered.
We have also assessed if managements rationale over recoverability of the associated tax asset.
the length of time such assets will be recovered, is supportable and This includes assessment of the period over consistent with prior periods based on forecasting information and growth which taxable profits will be available to utilise assumptions.
We have evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting the assets against.
taxable profits and the integrity of the models used.
The magnitude of the risk i. e. the likelihood of occurrence and the size of an error should it occur is consistent with the prior year.
Amec Foster Wheeler 96 Annual report and accounts 2016 Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Adequacy of legacy liabilities including asbestos Refer to the Strategic Report page 31, the Audit We tested internal financial controls over the appropriate valuation and The valuation of legacy Committee Report page 67 : Critical accounting completeness of liabilities.
We assessed the judgements and accounting liabilities at 31 December policies and the use of judgements, estimates and treatments, including recognition of provisions and contingent liabilities, 2016 is within an assumptions page 113 and Note 21 of the Group made by management arising from contractual disputes, indemnities acceptable range.
We performed audit procedures including We are satisfied that discussions with managements legal experts, obtaining external legal The Group has risks relating to claims or the company has made letters, inspection of claims documentation and review of out-turn potential claims resulting from the disposal of a reasonable estimate of historic estimates.
businesses in previous years and those relating of the asbestos liability to asbestos exposure.
Total provisions relating We have engaged our own actuarial specialists to compare the at 31 December 2016. to legacy businesses at the year end are 124m, methodology used by management to assess asbestos liabilities with and asbestos 413m.
industry accepted practice including assessment of the appropriateness of the discount rate.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of the data We focused on this area, as determining the used by managements expert to calculate the liability.
We have assessed impact and likely outcome of litigation matters the recoverability of insurance receivables due to the Group.
There is a risk that provisions are not made for claims which have been received.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to purchase price allocation adjustments relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
This is not a relevant significant risk in the current year as the period in which adjustments to the provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired could be made ended on 13 November 2015.
In addition to the risks identified as part of our audit planning, the size of and judgement involved in determining the Groups exceptional items affected the allocation of resources and the direction of our audit efforts and for which our audit response was as follows: Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Presentation of exceptional items The Group consider the separate reporting We tested internal financial controls over the determination of items The disclosure of of exceptional costs helps to provide a to be presented as exceptional.
exceptional items is better indication of the Groups underlying in accordance with We have challenged management over whether the costs which have business performance.
the Groups disclosed been recorded as exceptional are presented in line with the Groups policy accounting policy for Continuing pre-tax exceptional costs including and have been appropriately excluded from trading profit.
We obtained exceptional items and impairment and amortisation recorded in the supporting calculations and invoices for a sample of costs presented as is in accordance with current year are 792m 2015: 559m.
In particular, we have focused on whether the inclusion of the requirements of internal labour costs on the basis of time spent on integration activities There is judgement in determining whether IAS 1, Presentation of is reasonable by inspecting managements calculations, agreeing the classification and measurement of items Financial Statements.
details to a sample of employment contracts and assessing whether the presented as exceptional is reasonable.
There is presentation of restructuring costs as exceptional is reasonable.
In doing also a risk that the Groups policy for such items so, we have considered the Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance is not applied consistently.
on items being reported as exceptional.
We have assessed whether the level of disclosure provided in the financial statements appropriately reflects the assessment made by management in determining the classification of such items as exceptional.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 97 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Group Internal Audit result findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements we selected 35 components covering entities within UK, US, Canada, Italy, China and Singapore, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
The Primary Team performs audit procedures on those areas of accounting performed centrally such as goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews and consolidation adjustments.
Of the 35 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 31 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The audit risks disclosed above were subject to full scope audit procedures as appropriate.
The reporting components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for 92% 2015: 90% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items and 96% 2015: 89% of the Groups Revenue.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 54% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items and 67% of the Groups Revenue.
The specific scope components contributed 38% of the profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items used to calculate materiality and 29% of the Groups Revenue.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of risks tested for the Group.
Of the remaining components that together represent 8% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Profit before tax adjusted for Revenue 8 4 29 pre-tax non-recurring items % 38 % Full scope components Full scope components Specific scope components Specific scope components Other procedures Other procedures 67 54 Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 4 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the primary audit team and 3 by component teams.
For the 31 specific scope components, where the work was primarily performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designate visits each of the key locations at both the interim and year end stages of the audit process.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the primary audit team to the component teams in Canada, the United States and various sites in the UK, including some specific scope locations.
Amec Foster Wheeler 98 Annual report and accounts 2016 These visits involved co-developing the significant risk area audit approach, reviewing key local working papers and conclusions, meeting with local and regional leadership team, getting an understanding of key control processes including centralised entity level control processes and attending closing meetings.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, attended all full scope and certain specific scope closing meetings in person and all other specific scope close meetings via conference call, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9 million 2015: 10 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for pre-tax non-recurring items.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items, as described below, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit procedures are performed on material exceptional items.
X Starting basis Continuing loss before tax 542 m Adjustments X 727m X Adjust for pre-tax non-recurring items to determine adjusted profit before tax Materiality X Totals 185m X Materiality of 9m 5% of materiality basis Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and other qualitative considerations, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance was 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 4.5m 2015: 5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1m to 3m 2015: 1m to 4m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2015: 0.5m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 99 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report to the members of Amec Foster Wheeler plc continued Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and X based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: X materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or X apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or X otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Amec Foster Wheeler 100 Annual report and accounts 2016 Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or X certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: X the directors statement, in relation to going concern, set out on page 45, and longer-term viability, set out on page 32: and X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: X the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: X the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: X the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and X the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Colin Brown Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 25 April 2017 Notes 1 The maint enance and integrity of the Amec Foster Wheeler plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 101 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
