INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: OUR OPINION IN OUR OPINION: the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: Antofagasta plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company as at 31 December 2016: statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year then ended: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the European Union: the Statement of Changes in Equity of the Parent Company for the year the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in then ended: and accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH OVERVIEW Overall Group materiality: $45 million which represents 5% of the three-year average of profit before tax adjusted MATERIALITY for one-off items.
We identified the four mine sites, Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
AUDIT SCOPE Taken together, the locations and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 96% of revenue and approximately 85% of absolute adjusted profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant locations and functions.
Impairment assessments at Antucoya, Twin Metals and Alto Maipo.
AREAS OF FOCUS Finalisation of Zaldvar purchase price accounting THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
122 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENTS MINING PROPERTIES In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets the Directors are required We considered the Directors impairment trigger analysis and agree that to perform a review for impairment of long-lived assets at any time an impairment indicators existed at Antucoya and that this was the appropriate indicator of impairment exists.
CGU for impairment testing purposes.
We considered whether impairment indicators existed for other CGUs and concluded they did not.
The Directors identified that impairment indicators existed at Antucoya where post declaration of commercial production the higher carrying value did not We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process by appear supported by the latest estimate of the recoverable value.
which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure to The resulting impairment review determined that the recoverable amount was the latest Board approved budgets, modified as required for FVLCD modelling below their carrying value.
Accordingly an impairment provision of $215.6 m purposes, and the latest approved Life of Mine plans.
We assessed the was recognised, along with a deferred tax credit of $99.4m, resulting in a reasonableness of the Directors future capital and operating expenses in light post-tax impairment of $116.2m.
The Directors determined that there were no of their historical accuracy and the current operating results and concluded indicators of impairment at Centinela.
The Directors considered if there were the forecasts had been appropriately prepared, based on updated impairment indicators at the Groups other mines, including considering the assessments of future operating performance and cost savings initiatives.
results of a carrying value review, but concluded that there were not.
Utilising our valuation experts, we evaluated the appropriateness of key The determination of recoverable amount was based on the higher of valuemarket related assumptions in the Directors valuation models, including the in-use and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, which requires copper prices, discount rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
We noted judgement on the part of the Directors in valuing the relevant CGUs.
As a that the required impairment charge was particularly sensitive to changes in value-in-use methodology does not permit future expansion or optimisation the long-term copper price and discount rate assumptions.
plans to be included within the discounted cash flow model, the Directors have used a FVLCD valuation methodology to determine the recoverable We formed an independent view of the copper price that a market participant amount, applying assumptions that a market participant would use to might use in a fair value less cost to dispose scenario.
We found that the determine fair value.
Directors long-term copper price assumption of $3.00 lb was at the higher end of a reasonable range.
We independently calculated a weighted average Refer to Note 4 Exceptional items.
cost of capital by making reference to market data, and considering the CGU specific risks.
The discount rate used by the Directors of 8% fell within a reasonable range.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts using a range of higher discount rates and lower long term copper prices.
In light of the above, we reviewed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 4 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided, and concluded they were appropriate.
AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENTS OTHER ASSETS In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets the Directors are required We discussed the impact of the actions of the Bureau of Land Management to perform a review for impairment of long-lived assets at any time an with management to help us assess the implications on the Groups ability to indicator of impairment exists.
continue to progress the Twin Metals project.
We noted the Directors remain committed to the project, have filed a federal lawsuit and believe that the The Directors identified that impairment indicators existed at its wholly owned Groups contractual mineral rights can be protected through this legal avenue.
exploration subsidiary Twin Metals in the US where the Bureau of Land We corroborated these views with managements external counsel.
Management declined to renew two federal mineral leases.
In response a federal lawsuit has been filed, noting that rescinding of the leases is The actions and resulting lawsuit are very recent which makes predicting the inconsistent with federal law, the terms of leases themselves, and the federal outcome inherently judgemental.
Additionally, the actions only relate to two of governments established precedent in supporting and renewing the leases the mineral leases, rather than all leases, further complicating the over the past five decades.
The Directors have announced that they remain assessment.
However we concluded no impairment had occurred by the committed to progressing the project and will continue to pursue legal balance sheet date.
avenues to protect the Groups contractual mineral rights, carried at $150m.
With respect to Alto Maipo, we reviewed the terms of the agreements and Accordingly no impairment has been recognised at this time.
concluded that a full impairment of related balances was appropriate.
We also The Directors also concluded that there was an indication that the Groups reviewed the work of managements tax expert as part of our assessment of interest in the Alto Maipo hydro project was impaired following the the related tax consequences.
announcement of forecast cost increases and the Groups subsequent We reviewed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Notes 36 and 4 decision to exit the project for nominal consideration.
of the financial statements and concluded they were appropriate.
Accordingly, an impairment provision of $367.6m was recognised, comprising $74.0m with respect to the investment in associate balance and $52.6m of mark-to-market losses in respect of derivative financial instruments held by Alto Maipo previously deferred in reserves, resulting in a $126.6m loss reflected in the profit from associates and joint ventures lines and $241.0m of loan financing including interest receivable reflected in operating cost.
This impairment provision resulted in a deferred tax credit of $95.0 million resulting in a post-tax impact of $272.6m.
Refer to Note 4 Exceptional items.
CO. UK 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS FINALISATION OF ZALDVAR PURCHASE PRICE ACCOUNTING Accounting for acquisitions of joint ventures under IFRS is inherently complex, We obtained and reviewed the purchase agreements and related requiring the Directors to perform a purchase price allocation exercise to fair amendments and confirmed that the appropriate consideration had been value the assets and liabilities of the acquired business.
We also reviewed the amendments to the initial purchase price acquired on 1 December 2015, there was limited time to conduct this exercise allocations and considered if these were supportable and noted no exceptions.
in the prior year and in particular, the working capital adjustment period The Group engaged an independent valuation expert to perform the purchase remained open.
price allocation exercise and we assessed the competency and objectivity of Following an adjustment to the final consideration for the purchase to the expert, and the scope of their work.
Specifically in relation to ore $949.7m, the provisional purchase price allocations previously recorded have stockpiles we read the experts report and discussed with the expert their now been finalised.
valuation methodology for inventory, along with the key judgements they made in determining the fair values.
We determined that the methods used by The main adjustment was a revision to working capital balances.
the Directors expert were appropriate and the fair values appeared Refer to Note 19 Compania Minera Zaldvar SPA transaction.
reasonable based on the judgements made.
We concurred with the Directors experts assessment of the purchase price allocation and the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 19 of the financial statements.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE MATERIALITY We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both The core mining business consists of four assets: Los Pelambres: Centinela: individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Antucoya, which has commenced production during the year: and Zaldvar, a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation operated by the Group.
These Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the mines produce copper cathodes, copper concentrates and significant volumes financial statements as a whole as follows: of by-products.
MATERIALITY In addition to mining, the Group has a transport division that provides rail and road cargo services in northern Chile predominantly to mining customers, HOW WE 5% of the three-year average of profit before tax adjusted including to the Groups own operations.
DETERMINED IT for one-off items.
All of the above operations are located in Chile.
In addition, the Group has corporate head offices located in both Santiago, Chile Antofagasta Minerals RATIONALE FOR We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure in and London, UK Antofagasta plc.
The Group also has exploration projects in BENCHMARK assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally APPLIED various countries.
We used a three-year average due to the impact on profit before tax of the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the inherent volatility in copper commodity prices, and adjusted type of work that needed to be performed at each of the four mine sites and for one-off items to eliminate the volatility that they the corporate offices in Chile, by us, as the Group engagement team and by introduce.
component auditors from PwC Chile operating under our instruction.
Los Pelambres and Centinela were considered to be financially significant components of the Group, due to their contribution towards Group profit COMPONENT For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a MATERIALITY before tax, and so required audits of their complete financial information.
materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
Antucoya and Zaldvar were also subject to an audit of their complete financial The range of materiality allocated across components was information, in response to the risks of impairment to Antucoyas carrying between $12 million and $30 million.
Certain components value and the carrying value of inventory at Zaldvar.
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We also requested that component auditors perform specified procedures over the corporate offices in Chile, and specific line items of other entities We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them within the Group to ensure that we had sufficient coverage from our audit misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5 million 2015: $3 million work for each line of the Groups financial statements.
For all other nonas well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted financially significant components, the Group team performed analytical reporting for qualitative reasons.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level GOING CONCERN of involvement we needed to have in the audit work to be able to conclude Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for set out on page 22, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
A UK senior manager was seconded to PwC Chile to be an integral part of the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have team.
In addition the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Chile four times, anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors including two mine site visits, key audit meetings with management and statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going meetings with our component auditors.
The Group team also reviewed the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material component auditor working papers, attended local audit clearance meetings, to add or to draw attention to.
and reviewed other forms of communications dealing with significant accounting and auditing issues.
124 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently We have no exceptions materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the to report course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 119, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the We have no exceptions information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model to report.
and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 88 to 91, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 23 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, to add or to draw future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 22 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have We have nothing material assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, to add or to draw and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and attention to.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
CO. UK 125 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the INFORMATION AND EXPLANATION RECEIVED financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or opinion: error.
This includes an assessment of: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the our audit: or Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, adequately disclosed: or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the not visited by us: or Directors: and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT COMPANIES ACT techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis 2006 OPINION for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
nothing to report having performed our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS JASON BURKITT AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out for and on behalf of  LLP on page 119, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
London Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 13 March 2017 statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
