Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc the disclosures on page 25 that describe those risks and explain Opinion on the financial statements of AO World Plc In our opinion: how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
and Company statement of financial position, the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue Company statement of cash flows, and the related notes 1 to 37 and 1 to 16 for the Consolidated and Company financial statements respectively.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Going concern and the Directors assessment of the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group referred to in those standards.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below of accounting contained within the Strategic Report and note 3 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 25 that they have carried out a The risks identified below are the same risks as identified in the prior year except for the change to the inventory risk discussed below.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition product protection plans The Group sells product protection plans to customers purchasing We agreed the key inputs to the fair value calculation which electrical appliances, on behalf of a third party Domestic & General include new policies, plan cancellations and commission receipts Services Limited D&G, who, without recourse to the Group, to third-party documentation received directly from D&G.
administer the plans, collect money from the customers and pay a commission to the Group for each policy sold over the life of the plan.
We compared the cancellation rates within the fair value calculation over the expected life of the plans to the historical cancellation data.
Revenue recognised in the year for the plans sold in the year is based on a fair value calculation of commissions due over the expected life We tested the outputs of the model and agreed through to the of the plan.
The expected life of the plan is profiled based on historical balances recorded within the financial statements, including cancellation data.
benchmarking the discount rate that the Group had used against an external market rate for a medium term monetary asset.
There is a risk therefore that the revenues are being recognised at the incorrect value and in the incorrect period.
There is an associated risk Our data specialists have performed a series of integrity tests around the recoverability of the receivable balance attributable to the on the fair value calculation, using specialist tools to examine the product protection plans.
consistency of the formulae used.
Further follow up testing was then performed by the audit team to assess whether the calculations were There is a risk that a change in the interpretation of the existing law in line with business process procedures, allowing us to assess the or regulation could differ from the current management view of the overall integrity of the calculation of the fair value of the revenue nature of product protection plans.
This could result in plans being recognised and year-end receivable balance.
considered as insurance contracts and accordingly the plans would be regulated under the Financial Services Markets Act FSMA.
We discussed with management and consulted with our financial services specialists in relation to managements assumption that the See critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation UK products do not constitute insurance products.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory valuation and provisioning For the year ended 31 March 2015, the inventory risk was focused on We tested a sample of inventory to confirm it is held at the lower the valuation and obsolescence risk specific to the Audio Visual AV of cost and net realisable value through comparison to supplier inventory on account of the lack of history in selling these items and invoices and latest sales prices.
increased inherent risk of obsolescence due to their shorter life span.
We assessed the amount of rebates that has been absorbed For the current year audit this risk was revised to focus on the into the valuation of inventory, including a recalculation of the valuation and provisioning risks for the Group inventory balance of rebates figure, agreement to purchase invoice and agreement 34.0m 2015: 31.5m as per note 22. to supplier agreements.
At each period end, inventory is adjusted to purchase cost on a FIFO We assessed the methodology behind the different inventory basis.
This adjustment takes into account the absorption of rebates provisions to determine whether this is reasonable based on the into the inventory valuation, which incorporates a number of variables nature of the business and have considered the risk regarding depending on the nature of the agreement with the supplier.
additional provision being required by reviewing any inventory losses made during the financial year and considering post year Provisions are also held against all inventory lines with provisions end sales to identify any further sales made at a loss.
for slow moving and damaged inventory being calculated based on the most recent sales information.
See critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 89.
Supplier rebate agreements The Group has a number of rebate agreements with its suppliers We have inspected the key rebate agreements and assessed the that are based on the volume of purchases during the calendar year criteria for recognition of the rebates on the balance sheet based multiplied by an agreed rebate percentage scale which can vary on the contracted rebate percentage and the volumes of purchases based on purchase levels.
We have also held discussions with the commercial team to gain a greater understanding of the terms and conditions These agreements can be complex in nature and therefore there is a underpinning the supplier agreements in place and to corroborate risk that amounts recorded within the Income Statement may not be the data used by finance and the processes implemented by the in line with the agreed terms with the supplier.
At the end of the financial year, the Group accrues a rebate receivable, We have sent out confirmations to a sample of suppliers asking being 9.4m 2015: 8.0m as disclosed in note 23, owed by reference them to confirm the nature and specific terms of any rebate to the percentage rebate at the expected level of purchases for the full agreements for amounts recognised in the year and held at calendar year.
The percentage accrued at the Groups financial year end may differ to Owing to the low response rate received, alternative procedures the percentage achieved for the 2016 calendar year given the estimate were performed, being that we have assessed the commercial of forecast purchases is made early in the calendar year.
income recognised in the Income Statement and have vouched a sample back to supporting documentation to confirm whether See critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation they have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in uncertainty on page 89. line with the signed terms of the agreement.
In order to assess the recoverability of the rebate receivable balance, we selected a sample of balances held at the year-end and agreed these balances to credit notes received from suppliers post year-end.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 54.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc continued Remaining entities not included in our full scope procedures relate Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the to the entities acquired in the year as part of The Recycling Group Limited, as described in note 16, and subsidiaries within Belgium and financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed the Netherlands for which minimal transactions have been processed in the year.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We engaged a local component audit team to complete the inventory We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.0m 2015: 0.6m, count procedures at AO Deutschland Limited and the location has been visited by the Group audit team to hold a planning meeting with which is 7.5% 2015: 5% of normalised pre-tax profit.
The increase in materiality from 5% to 7.5% of normalised pre-tax profit was local management prior to the commencement of our audit.
determined by the audit partner to be the appropriate level for the current year audit based on the underlying growth of the business At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there and low margins achieved on the underlying trade of the business.
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit Pre-tax loss has been normalised by adjusting for the start-up investment and losses incurred in the European operations as or audit of specified account balances.
described in note 6, European set up costs incurred within the UK, as described in note 6 and for the credit 2015: cost incurred in relation Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 to the 2014 IPO Performance Share Plan PSP, as described in note 6.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has The audit team have assessed the nature of losses incurred in the European operations and European set up costs incurred within the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and UK business and have determined that, on the basis these entities have only been trading for 18 months, these losses are still considered to be the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are part of an investment and start-up phase therefore not representative of the underlying pre-tax profit forecast in future periods.
The credit prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
2015: charge in relation to the PSP relates specifically to an incentive plan to reward the management team for their successful IPO and Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records accordingly reflects a much greater value compared to the other ongoing share-based payment schemes in the Group.
For these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: reasons, both items are considered to be required to be adjusted to give a true reflection of materiality relevant to the underlying trade we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or of the Group.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 51,000 2015: 12,000, from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This increase is attributable to an the accounting records and returns.
increase in materiality as noted above, plus a reassessment of the appropriate threshold to report to the Audit Committee.
We also report We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our An overview of the scope of our audit opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Given the nature of the Groups corporate structure, where all evidence relating to each component is compiled at the Groups is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
head office, the Senior Statutory Auditor led an audit which covered approximately 99% 2015: 100% of revenue, 95% 2015: 100% of Corporate Governance Statement loss before tax and 96% 2015:100% of net assets.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys The Groups main trading subsidiaries which are included in the scope are AO Retail Limited, Expert Logistics Limited, AO Deutschland compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Limited and Elek Direct Limited.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Our audit work at each location was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower than Group Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual materiality.
Component materiality ranged from 0.5m to 0.8m 2015: 0.3m to 0.5m.
Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Damian Sanders BA ACA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 8 June 2016 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79
