STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Ascential plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Ascential plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the consolidated statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the parent company statement of financial position and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: group financial statements 1.8m 2015: 2.5m as a whole 4.6% of profit benchmark 2015: 0.9% of revenue Coverage 90% of group revenue from continuing and discontinued operations 85% of group profit before tax from continuing operations and discontinuing operations Risks of material misstatement Recurring risks Valuation of deferred tax assets in respect of losses Revenue recognition Event driven Recognition and valuation of deferred and contingent payments for One Click Retail 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Valuation of deferred tax Subjective valuation Our procedures included: assets in respect of losses During the year, the Group passed the threshold 32.2m at which a change of control occurs, as defined Own tax expertise: Our own international tax by the US tax code.
As a result, the historic losses specialists evaluated the directors interpretation Refer to page 65 Audit of the Groups US businesses will be subject of key aspects of the tax legislation.
This included Committee Report, page to a restriction on utilisation: this stems from critically assessing the Groups interpretation of 92 accounting policy uncertainty in forecasting future profits generated the US tax code in determining the date at which and page 110 financial before losses expire and the valuation of the US tax the change of control was met.
group at the time the change of control occurred.
assessed the associated assumptions made in relation The amount of this restriction will not be known for to the valuation of the US tax groups deferred tax certain until tax filings in respect of 2016 have been assets, including the valuation of the US tax group.
accepted by the US Internal Revenue Service and this requires the Group to make an estimate at the Assessing transparency: We considered the current year-end.
appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in note 13 of the Group financial statements and the adequacy of the disclosure of judgements and estimates made in note 2 and note 12.
83 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Ascential plc only The risk Our response Revenue recognition The specific nature of the risk of material Our procedures included: 299.6m misstatement in revenue recognition varies across Control design: We confirmed our understanding of the Groups four operating segments.
the design and implementation of controls and traced Refer to page 65 Audit Data capture and processing error an example transaction from initiation to recording to Committee Report, page Where the process for recognising revenue is confirm our understanding of the revenue recording 92 accounting policy system-automated, there are additional risks that process from order processing to the raising of and page 101 financial contract data is not accurately captured and or invoices and receipt of cash.
For revenue transactions where the recognition is 2016 2017 sales automated within systems based on key attributes In respect of the Exhibitions & Festivals operating of contracts entered by the Group our procedures segment customers are often billed in advance and included: the key risk in revenue recognition is that revenue Data comparison: We validated the data inputs from exhibitions and festivals is recognised in the by agreeing a sample of inputs to original source wrong period, particularly for events held close to documents.
Control design and operation: We tested the In respect of both the Information Services, Plexus controls around the integrity of the data held in the and discontinued operations operating segments system and the completeness and accuracy of the we identified the risk that the deferral and release reports from this system with assistance from our of subscription revenues did not appropriately own IT specialists.
match the underlying terms of customer contracts.
Expectation vs outcome: Having performed the above procedures over the data in the system, we used the data to calculate an expectation of the revenue in the period and compared this to the actual revenue recorded by the Group.
For all other revenue our procedures included: Tests of details: For a sample of exhibitions and festivals revenue we obtained evidence of invoices, payments, contracts and event occurrence to determine whether revenue was recognised at the appropriate time.
For a sample of subscription transactions we obtained and reviewed relevant order confirmations and contracts to assess whether revenue was properly allocated across the term of the contract in the correct accounting period.
Recognition and valuation Accounting treatment Our procedures included: of deferred and contingent Judgement is required in determining the split Accounting analysis: Having inspected the contract, payments for the One of the performance-related payments between we compared our own application of the relevant Click Retail acquisition acquisition consideration and post-acquisition accounting standard to the terms of the contract, remuneration of the vendors who continue to work with particular reference to the split between 28.0m for the Group.
acquisition consideration and post-acquisition Forecast-based valuation remuneration.
Refer to pages 65 66 The group has recognised a significant contingent Assessing forecasts: We compared the forecast Audit Committee Report, consideration liability in respect of the One Click revenue and profit growth, used as the basis for page 92 accounting policy Retail acquisition.
There is inherent uncertainty the contingent consideration calculation, against and pages 112 114 involved in forecasting future performance of the the external due diligence report obtained prior to financial disclosures.
acquired business, which determines the fair value acquisition.
We challenged the adjustments made to of the liability.
these forecasts by the directors in reaching their final estimate of the fair value of the liability at the date of acquisition.
Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the competence and objectivity of the external experts who prepared the due diligence report, obtained by the directors prior to acquisition, which were referenced by the group in preparing its forecasts.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the fair value of contingent consideration to changes in key assumptions, in particular the estimates and judgements made by the Group in this regard.
84 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Benchmark reconciliation m 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Group loss before tax 1.8 Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was Profit before tax from discontinued operations 5.3 set at 1.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of IPO costs 3.6 profit before tax normalised as set out opposite, of 38.3m, Pre-IPO finance costs 16.0 of which it represents 4.7%.
2015: 2.5m on a revenue Acquisition-related contingent employment benchmark, previously applicable due to the effect on profit and capital costs 15.3 of the previous financial gearing.
After listing and refinancing Benchmark 38.4 in 2016 a profit benchmark has been used.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or profit benchmark Materiality uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 90,000, 38.4m 1.8m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
1.8m Whole financial Of the groups 69 reporting components, we subjected 8 to statements materiality audits for group purposes and three to specified risk-focused 2015: 2.5m audit procedures.
The latter were not individually significant enough to require a full scope audit for group reporting 0.7m - 1.4m purposes but were included in the scope of our group audit Range of materiality at work in order to provide further coverage over the identified 11 components risks and the Groups results.
2015: 1.0m - 1.8m The group operates one shared service centre in India, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components it services and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the profit benchmark testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Group materiality 90,000 Misstatements reported The components within the scope of our work accounted for to the audit committee the percentages illustrated opposite.
2015: 125,000 The remaining 10% of total group revenue, 15% of total profits and losses that made up group profit before tax and 15% of total group assets is represented by 58 reporting components, Scoping and coverage none of which individually represented more than 4% of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
For these remaining components, we performed 10% analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material 15% 9% misstatement within these.
15% The group audit team was responsible for all audit work 7% 1% including the assessment of significant areas to be covered at each component, including the relevant risks detailed above, 2016 and the information to be reported.
The component materialities, which ranged from 0.7m to 1.4m, were Total Assests calculated by the Group team having regard to the mix of size 84% and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The group audit also performed work at the group-level over PBT 78% deferred tax asset valuation and the accounting for the acquisition of One Click Retail and on the items excluded from Revenue 81% the Profit benchmark.
Audits for group reporting purposes specified risk-focused audit procedures Analysis at aggregated group level 85 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Ascential plc only 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Companies Act 2006 is unmodified you if, in our opinion: In our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the not been received from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006: and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the information given in the Strategic Report and the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or financial statements.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the we have not received all the information and explanations course of the audit of the financial statements and from we require for our audit.
reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and the Directors statements, set out on page 33, in relation in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in to going concern and longer-term viability: and accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 54 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code of principal risks specified for our review.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the Directors Statement of Viability on page 33 concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, Scope and responsibilities the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities continuing in operation over the three years to Statement set out on page 60, the Directors are 31 December 2019: or responsible for the preparation of the financial statements the disclosures in Note 1 of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Councils website at www.
which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, as a body and is subject to important explanations based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, identified other information in the Annual Report that contains published on our website at www.
com uk a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that report as if set out in full and should be read to provide is otherwise misleading.
an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: John Bennett Senior Statutory Auditor we have identified material inconsistencies between the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Chartered Accountants statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 15 Canada Square financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and London understandable and provides the information necessary for E14 5GL shareholders to assess the Groups position and 24 February 2017 performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
