88 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion: the directors confirmation on page 57 that they have carried the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 and including those that would threaten its business model, future of the Groups profit for the year then ended: performance, solvency or liquidity: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the disclosures on pages 30 to 32 that describe those risks accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement on page 84 about whether they the Company financial statements have been properly prepared considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so Act 2006: and over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the financial statements: the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the directors explanation on page 32 as to how they have Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated including any related disclosures drawing attention to any and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related Notes 1 to 32. necessary qualifications or assumptions.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS AS ISSUED BY THE IASB to continue as a going concern.
As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the INDEPENDENCE European Union, the Group has also applied IFRS as issued by the We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also as issued by the IASB.
confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP The assessed risks of material misstatement described below As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts basis of accounting contained on page 84 and the directors of the engagement team.
statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 32.
RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Carrying value of rental fleet We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls As set out in Note 13, the Group holds over the impairment review.
4.5bn 2015: 3.6bn of rental fleet We considered managements analysis of impairment indicators, understood and at cost 3.2bn net book value challenged the key judgements and sensitivities and the impact that each of these have 2015: 2.5bn net book value.
in determining whether an impairment exists.
There is a risk that an impairment In particular, we focused our analysis on returns on investment by asset class, fleet required to the Groups rental fleet is utilisation, profits and losses on asset disposals, depreciation rates and residual not identified, properly quantified or values.
We tested the key metrics noted, including asset utilisation statistics and profit recorded and that the carrying value on disposal.
We also assessed whether the accounting for the rental fleet and of these assets are misstated.
associated disclosures were in line with the Groups accounting policies.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 89 RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK Carrying value of goodwill We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls As set out in Note 14, the Group carries over the goodwill impairment review.
goodwill of 557m 2015: 516m on its We assessed the Groups current and forecast performance and considered whether balance sheet.
any other factors exist that would suggest that goodwill is impaired.
We have Management performs an annual performed the following procedures: impairment review of goodwill.
challenged managements identification of eight CGUs against our understanding There is a risk that the judgements of the business and the definition as set out in the accounting standards: used in this, such as forecast cash assessed the appropriateness of the calculation of the value in use of each CGU and flows, discount rates and growth the associated headroom, performing recalculations to test the mechanical accuracy rates are inappropriate and goodwill of those amounts: is overstated.
compared forecast inputs and growth assumptions against historical trends to assess the reliability of managements forecast, in addition to comparing forecast assumptions to external market analysis: with the assistance of internal specialists, recalculated the discount rate applied to the future cash flows and benchmarked this against other companies in the industry: performed sensitivity analysis: and considered managements financial statement disclosures.
Revenue recognition We evaluated the design and implementation, and tested the operating effectiveness There is a risk that earned not billed of controls over the revenue cycle.
and billed not earned revenue is We have focused our substantive testing on the earned not billed and billed not incorrectly calculated or recorded earned valuation of revenue.
In doing so we have reviewed managements methodology, in the wrong period due to the traced the information in the reports back to invoices, remittance and credit notes management estimate involved as a substantive sample, performed analytical procedures over movements in the in the calculation.
period and assessed the historical accuracy of managements estimations using We also consider there to be a risk a look-back approach.
that rebates payable to customers We have also tested the calculations for rebates recorded for a sample of customers to are omitted or recorded at an assess whether they were calculated in line with the rebate contract, and circularised incorrect amount.
other customers to understand if further rebates should be recorded.
Additionally, we tested a sample of rebate payments recorded during the year to assess whether payments were made in line with the rebate agreement.
Our prior year audit report also included a further risk relating We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the to acquisition accounting which is not included in our report in Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.0m 2015: 0.7m, the current year.
Due to the size of the acquisitions in the current as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, year being significantly less than the prior year, this risk has been warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the reassessed and it is not considered to be one of those which Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when has had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of resources in the audit and direction of the efforts of the engagement team.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consisted of a combination of the work performed by component financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, teams in the US and UK, and the Group audit team in London.
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The Group comprises three 2015: three principal locations: the Head Office in London: A-Plant in Warrington, UK: and Sunbelt in OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Charlotte, US.
The Group audit team performed a full-scope audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the of the Head Office component and local component audit teams financial statements that makes it probable that the economic performed full-scope audits at both A-Plant and Sunbelt: this decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be was the same approach as the prior year.
These three locations changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the represent 99% 2015: 100% of the Groups revenue, 100% scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
2015: 100% of the Groups profit before tax and 96% 2015: 100% We determined materiality for the Group to be 24.0m of the Groups net assets.
They were also selected to provide an 2015: 17.0m, which is 3.9% 2015: 3.6% of profit before tax.
appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three In determining our materiality we have used a three-year average locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each profit before tax to reflect the cyclical nature of the industry in individual location which were lower than Group materiality and which the Group operates.
We have then applied a benchmark of 5% ranged from 3.4m to 21.6m 2015: 3.1m to 15.4m.
to the three-year average profit before tax to arrive at materiality.
This approach is consistent with the prior year.
90 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED Members of the Group audit team including the lead audit partner RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR have made site visits to component audit teams during the financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors year and after the year end to ensure sufficient involvement and responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of oversight of work performed.
At the Group level we also tested the the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true consolidation process.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and In our opinion: Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act standards review team and independent partner reviews.
2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, report for the financial year for which the financial statements in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest BY EXCEPTION extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we in our opinion: have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from assurance that the financial statements are free from material branches not visited by us: or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the Company financial statements are not in agreement with assessment of: the accounting records and returns.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Directors remuneration the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if by the directors: and in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have the overall presentation of the financial statements.
not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Corporate Governance Statement apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report EDWARD HANSON SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor in the annual report is: London, UK 13 June 2016 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
