Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2016 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit The rebate rates data used in rebate calculations is maintained on a separate table that is reviewed and approved by three teams: Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified legal, distribution and finance on a semi-annual basis.
We assessed We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc the design of the control by evaluating the approval process.
We for the year ended 30 June 2016 set out on pages 78 to 121.
In assessed the operating effectiveness of the control by inspecting our opinion: the evidence of review and approval.
We also agreed a selection the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the of the rebate rates contained in the table to the original investment Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 management agreements.
and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: For calculations performed outside of the system, we agreed the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in rates used to the rebate rates table for a selection of calculations, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as in order to determine that the rates in the table were used in adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the calculation.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Our response in terms of calculation complexity: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and For calculations performed outside the system, we performed as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies recalculations for the rebates on a sample basis.
Act 2006: and For calculations performed on the system, we performed the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with testing over user access and authorisation controls and testing the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards of changes through inspection of approval documentation and the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also performed testing of the interface between the rebate calculation system and the third-party Our assessment of risks of material misstatement service provider who provides the assets under management We summarise below the risks of material misstatement unchanged data for the purpose of rebate calculations as well as the system from 2015 that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing generated reports through retrieving system data and records to order of audit significance, our key audit procedures to address ascertain the completeness and accuracy of the interface process those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the and reports.
Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of Our findings: procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of Our testing did not identify any deviations in controls that would our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and have required us to amend the nature or scope of our planned consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express detailed test work.
We found no errors in the calculations above discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
the materiality level over which we are required to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
Management fee rebates 40.5 million 2015: 40.5 million Risk vs 2015: Classification of seed capital investments 238.5 million Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report 2015: 207 million Risk vs 2015: and page 90 accounting policy and note 6 of the financial Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report, statements disclosures.
pages 88-89 accounting policy and note 20 of the financial statements disclosures.
The risk: Individual investment management agreements include bespoke The risk: complex rebate calculations and these calculations are subject The Group invests in funds that are managed by Group to periodic alterations which increases the risk of error in the subsidiaries.
If the Group has control over the funds invested, determination of net revenue.
The Group uses a system to they need to be consolidated into the Groups financial statements.
automate the calculation for a majority of management fee rebates.
When determining whether the Group controls the underlying This is one of the key areas that our audit is concentrated on funds, the strength of the linkage between the Groups power because of the need to keep the data used for these calculations to influence the funds operations and the variable returns received up to date and to ensure that the calculations are performed in by the Group is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit is accordance with the relevant agreements.
concentrated on, because there is a risk that the Group could incorrectly assess the strength of the linkage, leading to an Our response in terms of rate accuracy: incorrect decision on whether the seed capital investments For calculations performed on the system, we evaluated controls should be consolidated.
around ensuring the fee rebate rates used are accurate and up to date.
Changes to the rebate rates contained in the system are entered by the legal team but the change is not effected until approvals are made within the system by authorised individuals from the distribution and finance teams.
We evaluated the system control by reviewing the systems log for a selection of changes made.
74 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2016 Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit The rebate rates data used in rebate calculations is maintained Our responses: Share-based payments 10.7 million 2015:24.5 million on a separate table that is reviewed and approved by three teams: Risk vs 2015: We critically assessed the Directors rationale for determining the Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified legal, distribution and finance on a semi-annual basis.
We assessed linkage between the power and the variable returns for each seed Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report, pages 54 We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc the design of the control by evaluating the approval process.
We assessed against the accounting standard to 67 Remuneration report, page 90 accounting policy and note 10 for the year ended 30 June 2016 set out on pages 78 to 121.
In assessed the operating effectiveness of the control by inspecting the framework that the Directors designed for identifying of the financial statements disclosures.
our opinion: the evidence of review and approval.
We also agreed a selection combinations of different levels of economic interests in funds The risk: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the of the rebate rates contained in the table to the original investment and strength of other investors rights to replace the Group as the The Group issues share awards to employees under a number Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 management agreements.
investment manager, that constitute control.
Since the accounting of share-based compensation plans.
The number of shares that and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: standard does not include preset levels for these combinations, For calculations performed outside of the system, we agreed the vest for Executive Directors are subject to the relative total the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in we assessed the appropriateness of the Directors threshold rates used to the rebate rates table for a selection of calculations, shareholder return TSR condition over the vesting period, being accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as combinations by comparing it to the industry normal practice.
in order to determine that the rates in the table were used in the Groups TSR in comparison to its peer group as defined by adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : We agreed the aggregate economic interest including direct the calculation.
This is one of the key judgmental the parent company financial statements have been properly holdings, indirect holdings, management fees and performance Our response in terms of calculation complexity: areas that our audit is concentrated on because of the judgments prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and fees where relevant held by the Group to funds legal documents involved in determining the likelihood of the TSR condition For calculations performed outside the system, we performed as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies and independent confirmations from fund administrators.
recalculations for the rebates on a sample basis.
Act 2006: and assessed the strength of other investors rights by reference to the For calculations performed on the system, we performed funds legal documents and agreeing the number of investors in Our responses: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with testing over user access and authorisation controls and testing each fund to the fund administrators reports.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards We assessed the Directors basis for determining the impact of the of changes through inspection of approval documentation and the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures on the TSR condition at the start of the vesting period for both equity and system configurations records.
We also performed testing of the classification of seed capital investment reflect the Groups cash-settled share-based schemes and at the end of the period interface between the rebate calculation system and the third-party Our assessment of risks of material misstatement involvement in each fund.
applicable only to the cash-settled schemes by critically assessing service provider who provides the assets under management We summarise below the risks of material misstatement unchanged reports prepared for the Directors by a third party remuneration Our findings: data for the purpose of rebate calculations as well as the system from 2015 that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing consultant.
We found that the Groups judgments made in determining these generated reports through retrieving system data and records to order of audit significance, our key audit procedures to address We assessed the objectivity and competency of the third-party classifications were balanced, and that the disclosures on the basis ascertain the completeness and accuracy of the interface process those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the remuneration consultant.
We critically reviewed the estimation of classification judgments are proportionate.
We found no errors in and reports.
Companys members as a body may better understand the process made by the remuneration consultant on the likelihood of the TSR the holdings above the materiality level over which we are required by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of Our findings: conditions being met.
We traced the estimation made by the to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of remuneration consultant on the proportion of shares which is Our testing did not identify any deviations in controls that would our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and expected to vest at the end of the vesting period, as a function have required us to amend the nature or scope of our planned Intangible assets 12.4 million 2015: 14.1 million consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express of the likelihood of the TSR condition being met, to those used detailed test work.
We found no errors in the calculations above Risk vs 2015: discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
by the Directors in their determination of the charge of share the materiality level over which we are required to report to the Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report, based payment schemes.
Group Audit and Risk Committee.
page 87 accounting policy and note 15 of the financial Management fee rebates 40.5 million 2015: 40.5 million We also assessed whether the disclosure in relation to the statements disclosures.
Risk vs 2015: Classification of seed capital investments 238.5 million schemes in the Remuneration Report is sufficient, in particular Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report The risk: 2015: 207 million Risk vs 2015: around the impact of the TSR condition on the shares vested and page 90 accounting policy and note 6 of the financial Intangible assets consist of management contracts acquired with Refer to pages 49 to 52 Audit and Risk Committee report, for Executive Directors.
Ashmore Equities Investment Management US, LLC in 2011. pages 88-89 accounting policy and note 20 of the financial Our findings: They are reviewed for impairment using a value in use model, the statements disclosures.
The risk: We had no concerns with the objectivity and competence of the outcome of which could vary significantly if different inputs were Individual investment management agreements include bespoke The risk: third-party consultant.
We found the resulting estimates on the applied.
There are a number of inputs used to determine the value complex rebate calculations and these calculations are subject The Group invests in funds that are managed by Group proportion of shares which is expected to vest at the end of the in use, including the operating margin, the net management fee to periodic alterations which increases the risk of error in the subsidiaries.
If the Group has control over the funds invested, vesting period to be balanced and Remuneration Report margin, the net subscription rate, the investment performance, the determination of net revenue.
tax rate and the discount rate.
Operating margin, net subscription automate the calculation for a majority of management fee rebates.
When determining whether the Group controls the underlying rate and investment performance are key judgemental areas and This is one of the key areas that our audit is concentrated on funds, the strength of the linkage between the Groups power those which our audit is concentrated on because the value of the because of the need to keep the data used for these calculations to influence the funds operations and the variable returns received intangible assets is sensitive to these three assumptions.
up to date and to ensure that the calculations are performed in by the Group is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit is accordance with the relevant agreements.
Our responses: concentrated on, because there is a risk that the Group could Our audit procedures included comparison of the net subscription incorrectly assess the strength of the linkage, leading to an Our response in terms of rate accuracy: rates to the actual results in the year ended 30 June 2016.
We also incorrect decision on whether the seed capital investments For calculations performed on the system, we evaluated controls compared the investment performance assumption used to the should be consolidated.
around ensuring the fee rebate rates used are accurate and up actual performance in the year ended 30 June 2016 as well as the to date.
We compared the forecast Changes to the rebate rates contained in the system are entered operating margin used to actual operating margins in the current by the legal team but the change is not effected until approvals and prior periods.
are made within the system by authorised individuals from the We performed break-even and stress analysis on the assumptions distribution and finance teams.
We evaluated the system control to assess the alternative assumptions that would be needed to by reviewing the systems log for a selection of changes made.
Our findings: We found the resulting estimates to be balanced.
74 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 75 75 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Year ended 30 June 2016 Our application of materiality and an overview We have nothing to report in respect of the matters of the scope of our audit on which we are required to report by exception Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based at 6.75 million 2015: 8.9 million, determined with reference to on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4% other information in the annual report that contains a material 2015: 5%.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We reported to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3 million In particular, we are required to report to you if: 2015: 0.4 million, in addition to other identified misstatements we have identified material inconsistencies between the that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial Of the Groups 39 reporting components 2015: 38 components, statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable we subjected 6 2015: 5 to audits for group reporting purposes.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess These audits covered 99% 2015: 98% of total Group revenue: 97% the groups position and performance, business model and 2015: 94% of Group profit before taxation: and 97% 2015: 95% strategy: or of total Group assets.
the Group Audit and Risk Committee report in the Governance For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an section does not appropriately address matters communicated aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there by us to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, The Group audit team set the component materialities which ranged in our opinion: from 0.4 million to 4.1million 2015: 0.9 million to 6.1 million adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the components.
The work on the components was performed by from branches not visited by us: or the Group audit team.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Our opinion on other matters prescribed with the accounting records and returns: or by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are In our opinion: not made: or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited we have not received all the information and explanations we has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies require for our audit: or Act 2006: a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the company.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements in relation to going concern set out the information given in the Corporate governance section set on page 73 and longer-term viability statement on page 34: and out on pages 46-53 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes the part of the Corporate governance section relating to the and about share capital structures is consistent with the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 financial statements.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors longer-term viability statement on page 34, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 30 June 2019: or the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
76 76 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and AA cc ccounts 20 ounts 2016 16 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only continued Year ended 30 June 2016 Our application of materiality and an overview We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Scope and responsibilities of the scope of our audit on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based set out on page 68, the Directors are responsible for the preparation at 6.75 million 2015: 8.9 million, determined with reference to on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4% other information in the annual report that contains a material true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 2015: 5%.
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
This report is made solely We reported to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any corrected to the companys members as a body and is subject to important or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3 million In particular, we are required to report to you if: explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 2015: 0.4 million, in addition to other identified misstatements we have identified material inconsistencies between the on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read statement that they consider that the annual report and financial Of the Groups 39 reporting components 2015: 38 components, to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable we subjected 6 2015: 5 to audits for group reporting purposes.
we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor the Group Audit and Risk Committee report in the Governance for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an section does not appropriately address matters communicated Chartered Accountants aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there by us to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
15 Canada Square were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, The Group audit team set the component materialities which ranged E14 5GL in our opinion: from 0.4 million to 4.1million 2015: 0.9 million to 6.1 million 5 September 2016 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received www.
76 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 As Ahm shmore Group plc | ore Group plc | An Annual R nual Rep eport and ort and Acc Accounts 20 ounts 2016 1 6 77 77
