Financial Statements Auditors Reports on the Financial Statements DQGbRQb, QWHUQDO &RQWURO RYHU LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJ Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 The report set out below is provided in the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
over financial reporting is set out on page compliance with International Standards on Those reports are unqualified and include 133.
KPMG LLP has also reported separately Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG LLP has also opinions on the Group Financial Statements on the Company Financial Statements of issued reports in accordance with standards and on the effectiveness of internal control AstraZeneca PLC and on the information in of the Public Company Accounting Oversight over financial reporting as at 31December theDirectors Remuneration Report that is Board in the US, which will be included in the 2016 Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404. described as having been audited.
This audit Annual Report on Form 20-F to be filed with TheDirectors statement on internal control report is set out on page197.
Independent Auditors Report to the 0HPEHUVbRIb$VWUD HQHFD 3 & RQO Opinions and conclusions are based on procedures undertaken in the compared with expectations and payment DULVLQJbIURPbRXU DXGLW context of and solely for the purpose of our claims, and considered the historical accuracy 1 Our opinion on the Group Financial statutory audit opinion on the Group Financial of the accrual.
We also assessed the adequacy Statements is unmodified Statements as a whole and consequently of the Groups disclosure of its rebates and We have audited the Group Financial areincidental to that opinion, and we do chargebacks policy, the judgement involved, Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the notexpress discrete opinions on separate and other related disclosures.
year ended 31December 2016 set out on elements of the Group Financial Statements.
In our opinion the Group Rebates and chargebacks in the US In determining the appropriateness of the Financial Statements: $2,812m 2015:$3,307m Risk vs 2015: deductions made in relation to US rebates and give a true and fair view of the state of the Refer to page98 Audit Committee Report, chargebacks, there is room for judgement and Groups affairs as at 31December 2016 page142 accounting policy and page77 we found that within that, the assumptions used andof its profit for the year then ended: financial risk management.
and the resulting estimates were balanced have been properly prepared in accordance 2015:balanced.
We also found noerrors in The risk with International Financial Reporting the year-end US rebate accrual calculations.
The Group makes sales to customers in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We found the disclosures on USrebates and theUnited States of America US that fall European Union EU : and chargebacks to be ample 2015:proportionate.
undercertain commercial and governmental have been prepared in accordance with the reimbursement schemes, of which the most Carrying value of intangible assets requirements of the Companies Act 2006 significant are Medicaid and Medicare.
Theresulting rebates and chargebacks, Riskvs2015: 2 Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as which are deducted in arriving at revenue, are Refer to page98 Audit Committee Report, issued by the International Accounting complex and require significant judgement page145 accounting policy, page157 Standards Board IASB and estimation in establishing an appropriate financialdisclosures and page80 financial As explained in the Group accounting policies accrual at year-end.
section of the Group Financial Statements Our response The risk set out on pages142 to 146, the Group, in Our principal audit procedures included The Group has significant intangible assets addition tocomplying with its legal obligation testingthe Groups controls surrounding the arising from the acquisition of products both to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also deductions made to US revenue for rebates launched and in development.
Recoverability applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
and chargebacks, and key manual and of these assets is based on forecasting and In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements systems-based controls in the order-to-cash discounting future cash flows, which are comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our audit work involved inherently highly judgemental.
For products testing key controls including reconciliations indevelopment, the main risk is achieving 3 Our assessment of risks between sales systems and the general ledger successful trial results and obtaining required  and those over claims, credits and system clinical and regulatory approvals.
For We summarise below the risks of material accrual rates.
We also assessed the accuracy launchedproducts, the key risk is the ability misstatement that had the greatest effect on our of the calculation of the accrual, corroborated tosuccessfully commercialise the individual audit in decreasing order of audit significance, inputs and key assumptions, both to internal product concerned.
our key audit procedures to address those and independent sources including sales risks and our findings from those procedures in contracts with customers, performed an order that the Companys members as a body analysis of the accrual balance and deductions may better understand the process by which to sales year on year, corroborating movements we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings 134 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Financial Statements Our response the valuations are the discount rate and authorities and courts.
We also assessed the Our principal audit procedures included testing probability that acalabrutinib obtains approval adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect the Groups controls surrounding intangible in the US and Europe.
of tax and uncertain tax positions.
asset impairments and evaluating the Our response Our findings Groupsassumptions used in assessing the Our principal audit procedures included testing We found the Groups estimate of the recoverability of intangible assets, in particular, the Groups controls surrounding the selection amountsto be recognised as tax liabilities revenue and cash flow projections and the and review of significant assumptions within tobe conservative 2015:conservative and probability of obtaining regulatory approval for the forecast cash flows used for the valuation thatthedisclosures provide a proportionate in-development assets.
We also performed of each of the acalabrutinib asset and option 2015:proportionate description of the current sensitivity analysis over individual intangible liability.
We engaged our valuation specialists to status of uncertain tax positions.
asset models, where we considered there to assist in our review of the discount rate, which be a higher risk of impairment, to assess the Litigation and contingent liabilities involved comparing the methodology used level of sensitivity to key assumptions and focus provisions of $438m 2015:$357m tothe methodology KPMG would apply in a our work in those areas.
Our procedures for Riskvs 2015: similar transaction and challenging the market products in development included assessing Refer to page98 Audit Committee Report, inputs used based on observed market data.
the reasonableness of the Groups assumptions page145 accounting policy, page185 In addition, we challenged the probability of regarding probability of obtaining regulatory financialdisclosures and page80 financial obtaining regulatory approval by interviewing approval through consideration ofthe current risk management.
arange of key research, development, and phase of development and comparison to commercial personnel as well as corroborating The risk industry practice.
We also interviewed a range the outcome of acalabrutinibs Phase I II clinical In the normal course of business, litigation and of key research, development, and commercial trials.
We considered whether adjustments to contingent liabilities may arise from productpersonnel to corroborate these assumptions.
the original valuations were appropriate in light specific and general legal proceedings, from For both launched and in-development of additional information about assumptions guarantees or from government investigations.
products we challenged managements that have become available in the measurement The amounts involved are potentially material keyassumptions regarding the size of the period to date.
We also assessed the adequacy and the application of accounting standards to therapeutic area market and the products of the Groups disclosure of the judgements determine the amount, if any, to be provided projected share ofthis market through involved in valuing the acalabrutinib asset and as a liability is inherently subjective.
bothdiscussion with arange of commercial the option liability, and related disclosures.
personnel and comparison to external Our response scientific literature andmarket research.
Our Our findings Having made enquiries of Directors and procedures also included challenging internally We found the Groups assumptions and the in-house legal counsel to obtain their view generated evidence by reviewing analyst resulting estimates to be balanced.
We found onthe status of significant legal matters, our forecasts, and retrospective assessment of the that the disclosures proportionately describe principal audit procedures included testing accuracy of the Groups projections.
We also the nature of the transaction, the judgements theGroups controls surrounding litigation assessed the adequacy of related disclosures taken, and their impact on the valuation of and contingent liabilities, obtaining formal in the Groups financial statements.
theacalabrutinib asset and the option confirmations from the Groups external liabilityrecognised.
counsel for all significant legal cases, and Our findings discussions with external counsel where We found the Groups assumptions and Tax provisioning $1,327m 2015:$1,734m necessary.
In addition we used our own theresulting estimates to be balanced Risk vs 2015: forensic and compliance specialists to assess 2015:balanced.
We found that the disclosures Refer to page98 Audit Committee Report, the Groups compliance reports to identify proportionately 2015:proportionately page143 accounting policy, page191 actual and potential non-compliance with describe the inherent degree of subjectivity financialdisclosures and page81 financial lawsand regulations, both those specific to inthe estimates and the potential impact on risk management.
the Groups business and those relating to future periods of revisions to these estimates.
The risk theconduct of business generally.
We then Acquisition of Acerta Pharma Intangible Due to the Group operating in a number of analysed correspondence with regulators, asset $7,307m: option liability $1,901m different tax jurisdictions and the complexities considered legal expenses incurred during 2015:n a New risk of transfer pricing and other international tax theyear, monitored external sources Refer to page143 accounting policy, legislation, accruals for tax contingencies andconsidered assessments made by page173 financialdisclosures and page79 require the Directors to make judgements and management of the probability of defending financial risk management.
estimates in relation to subjective tax issues any litigation and the reliability of estimating and exposures.
We also assessed whether the The risk Groups disclosures detailing significant legal In February 2016, the Group completed Our response proceedings adequately disclose the potential theacquisition of 55% of Acerta Pharma.
In this area our principal audit procedures liabilities of the Group.
Theacquisition agreement included a included testing the Groups controls mechanism providing Acerta shareholders surrounding tax provisioning, reviewing Our findings theoption tosell, and the Group the option to settlement correspondence between the Whilst the outcome of these litigation matters buy, the outstanding 45% of shares in Acerta.
Group and the relevant tax authorities, is inherently uncertain in each case, we found There is significant judgement involved in andtheassistance of our own local and that the Group applied balanced judgements selecting the underlying assumptions used international tax specialists in analysing 2015:balanced, on a case by case basis, in tovalue both the acalabrutinib asset in andchallenging the assumptions used by assessing whether or not a provision should development and the option liability management to determine tax provisions, be recognised.
We found that the assumptions identifiedand recognised on acquisition.
based on our knowledge and experience of used and the resulting liability recorded to be Theassumptions with the greatest impact on the application of the relevant legislation by balanced 2015:balanced.
We found that the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 135 Financial Statements Group gives ample disclosure 2015: ample Materiality for the Group Financial Statements on the potential liability in excess of that recognised in the Financial Statements and the profit before tax plus significant but unquantifiable contingent liability impairments and contingent consideration revaluations Materiality in respect of these litigation matters.
$2,936m $146m Whole financial Post-retirement benefits $2,186m statements materiality 2015:$1,974m Risk vs 2015: Refer to page101 Audit Committee Report, page143 accounting policy, page165 financialdisclosures and page80 financial risk management.
The risk Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups post-retirement defined benefit plans.
Small changes in assumptions and estimates $7.3m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee used to value the Groups net pension deficit could have a significant effect on the results and financial position of the Group.
impairments and fair value movement and Scoping and coverage Our response discount unwind on contingent consideration Our principal audit procedures included the as disclosed in Notes 9 and 18, which are testing of the Groups controls surrounding Group revenue % specifically audited, of which it represents thevaluation of the post-retirement defined 5.0% 2015:5.0%.
benefit plans and the challenge of key assumptions, being the discount rate, inflation We report to the Audit Committee any Audits for rate and mortality life expectancy, which are corrected or uncorrected identified group reporting included inthe valuation calculations of the misstatements exceeding $7.3m 2015:$7.0m purposes 77% 6SHFLHG ULVN Groups retirement benefit obligations in 0.25% of normalised Group profit before focused audit countries with significant defined benefit taxation, in addition to other identified procedures 19% pension plans, with the assistance of our misstatements that warranted reporting on ownactuarial specialists.
Components absolute comparison of these key assumptions used The Group operates a significant number SURWV ORVVHV % against our own internal benchmarks and ofentities, of which there are 191 2015:181 externally derived data.
Wealso assessed located in 67 2015:65 countries around the theadequacy of the Groups disclosures in Audits for group globe.
The Operating Segment disclosures reporting purposes respect of post-retirement benefits.
inNote6 set out the individual significance of 62% 6SHFLHG ULVN Our findings each geographical region.
focused audit Overall, we found the key assumptions used procedures 28% We performed audits for Group reporting in, and the resulting estimate of, the valuation purposes at 11 components 2015:nine of retirement benefit obligations within the and specified risk-focused audit procedures Group total assets % Group to be mildly optimistic 2015:mildly atthree 2015:two standalone components optimistic.
We found the disclosures in as well as at 33 2015:33 components respect of post-retirement benefits to be serviced by the Groups shared service proportionate 2015:proportionate.
The latter 36 2015:35 components group reporting Overall findings were not individually financially significant purposes 91% In reaching our audit opinion on the Group enough to require an audit for Group reporting 6SHFLHG ULVN focused audit Financial Statements we took into account the purposes, but were included in the scope of procedures 2% findings that we describe above and those for our audit in order to provide further coverage other, lower risk areas.
Overall the findings from over relevant account balances.
across the whole audit are that, although the The Group operates four principal shared Group Financial Statements uses estimates that service centres both in-house and outsourced are mainly balanced, there is one conservative in the UK, Malaysia, Romania and India, which estimate and one mildly optimistic estimate.
process a substantial proportion of the Groups However, compared with materiality and transactions.
The outputs from the shared considering the qualitative aspects of the Group service centres are included in the financial Financial Statements as a whole, our opinion on information of the reporting components they the Group Financial Statements is unmodified.
service and therefore they are not separate 4 Our application of materiality and an reporting components.
Each of the service overview of the scope of our audit centres is subject to specified risk-focused The materiality for the Group Financial audit procedures, predominantly the testing Statements as a whole was set at $146m oftransaction processing and review controls.
2015:$140m, determined with reference to Additional procedures are performed by abenchmark of Group profit before taxation, component audit teams at certain reporting normalised to exclude this years asset components to address the audit risks not 136 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Financial Statements covered by the work performed over the 6 We have nothing to report on the 8 Other matter we have reported shared service centres.
These procedures disclosures of principal risks separately on the Parent Company aredesigned to address the risk of material Based on the knowledge we acquired during Financial Statements misstatement identified through our Group our audit, we have nothing material to add or We have reported separately on the risk assessment processes.
draw attention to in relation to: ParentCompany Financial Statements ofAstraZeneca PLC for the year ended This resulted in the coverage shown in the Directors statement of Risk overview 31December 2016 and on the information theopposite charts.
For the remaining onpages20 to 22, concerning the principal inthe Directors Remuneration Report that components, we performed analysis at the risks, their management, and, based on isdescribed as having been audited.
Group level to re-examine our assessment that, the Directors assessment and thatthere were no significant risks of material expectations of the Groups continuing Scope and responsibilities misstatement within them.
in operation over the three years to As explained more fully in the Directors 31December 2019: or Responsibilities Statement set out on The Group audit team instructed component the disclosures in the Group Accounting page133, the Directors are responsible for the and shared service centre auditors as to the Policies concerning the use of the going preparation of the Financial Statements and significant areas to be covered, including concern basis of accounting.
forbeing satisfied that they give a true and therelevant risks detailed above and the fairview.
A description of the scope of an information to be reported back.
The Group 7 We have nothing to report in respect of the auditof financial statements is provided on audit team approved the component matters on which we are required to report theFinancial Reporting Councils website materiality levels, which ranged from $9m to by exception atwww.
$80m, having regard to the mix of size and risk Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required Thisreport is made solely to the Companys profile of the Group across the components.
toreport to you if, based on the knowledge members as a body and is subject to weacquired during our audit, we have The work on all components in scope of our important explanations and disclaimers identified other information in this Annual work, other than on the Parent Company, regarding our responsibilities, published Report that contains a material inconsistency wasperformed by component and shared on ourwebsite at www.
com uk with either that knowledge or the Financial service centre auditors.
The audit of the Parent auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated Statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, Company and consolidation was performed into this report as if set out in full and should orthat is otherwise misleading.
be read to provide an understanding of the In particular, we are required to report to you if: purpose of this report, the work we have The Group audit team visited six 2015:five undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
component locations, during the year, in the we have identified material inconsistencies UK, Sweden, Japan, China, Malaysia, and the between the knowledge we acquired during Antony Cates Senior Statutory Auditor United States to discuss and challenge key our audit and the Directors statement that for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, risks and audit strategy.
Video or telephone they consider that the Annual Report and StatutoryAuditor conference meetings were also held with all Financial Statements taken as a whole is Chartered Accountants Group reporting component auditors and fair, balanced and understandable and 15 Canada Square shared service auditors throughout the provides the information necessary for London audit.
At these visits and meetings, the audit shareholders to assess the Groups position E14 5GL approach, findings and observations reported and performance, business model and 2 February 2017 to the Group audit team were discussed in strategy: or more detail, and any further work required by the Audit Committee Report does the Group audit team was then performed by notappropriately address matters the component auditor.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
5 Our opinion on the other matter prescribed Under the Companies Act 2006 we are by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified required to report to you if, in our opinion: In our opinion the information given in the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Strategic Report and the Directors Report specified by law are not made: or forthe financial year for which the Financial we have not received all the information and Statements are prepared is consistent with the explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required Based solely on the work required to be toreview: undertaken in the course of the audit of the Financial Statements and from reading the the Directors statements, set out on Strategic Report and the Directors Report: pages96 and 22, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and we have not identified material the part of the Corporate Governance misstatements in those reports: and Report on pages82 to 97 relating to in our opinion, those reports have been the Companys compliance with the 11 prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 137
