112 Independent auditors report to the members of WS Atkins plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: WS Atkins plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard Regulation.
What we have audited WS Atkins plcs financial statements comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2016 the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act2006.
Our audit approach Context WS Atkins plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The business is involved in a large number of revenue contracts providing design engineering and project management consultancy services and, as a result, the accounting for these is an important area of focus.
Our 2016 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that the Groups operations were largely unchanged from the previous year.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of focus was similar to that undertaken in 2015.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 6.5 million 2015: 5.6m which represents 5% of profit before tax The focus of our work was on the UK and Europe, North America, Middle East and Energy operations.
In addition we receive reporting from Hong Kong to ensure sufficient coverage across all reporting segments Timing and accuracy of contract revenue recognition Goodwill impairment assessment, particularly in the Groups North America and global oil and gas cash generating unit Valuation of net retirement plan liabilities Provisions for uncertain tax positions Captive insurance claim provisions WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Independent auditors report 113 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the outcome of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Timing and accuracy of contract revenue recognition Refer to Audit Committee report page 75 and We evaluated the IT systems used in the determination of revenue recognition Revenue recognition and contract accounting page 130. by testing access and change management controls.
We also tested the internal controls over the timing of revenue recognition in the Financial Statements.
We focused on this area because the timing of revenue Based on the results of this testing, we placed a high level of reliance on recognition, forecasts of costs to complete and the controls for the purposes of our testing of revenue and designed our further recognition of variations on fixed price contracts have inherent testing accordingly.
complexities in the design, engineering and construction industries.
We selected a number of contracts, using risk based criteria, which included individual contracts: The Group enters into contracts, many of which are complex and long term in nature and can span a number of reporting with significant revenue recognised in the year or periods.
with forecast losses or The total amount of revenue and profit to be recognised with significant unbilled work-in-progress balances or under a contract can be affected by changes in conditions that had been identified by management as higher risk.
and circumstances over time, such as: To assess whether revenue and profit is accurately recorded, we tested variations to the original contract terms the forecast costs to complete on a sample of contracts by obtaining an cost overruns understanding from project managers as to how they had estimated these costs, challenging the assumptions, for example by assessing forecast scope changes that require further negotiation hours against historical and current run rates underpinning those estimates, and settlement.
evaluating the outturn of previous estimates and agreeing the actual costs Variations can arise from changing client specifications, incurred post-year end to the forecast costs for the period.
We also assessed changes to the job based on unforeseen circumstances how the project managers determined that the stage of completion was e. g. macroeconomic factors, as well as from inefficiencies correctly calculated and the appropriateness of variations recognised by on the part of either party.
There can be some uncertainties, obtaining their calculations and agreeing the inputs to documentary evidence therefore, in determining the amounts to be recovered from or our independently formed expectation as appropriate.
We found that the any additional work performed.
costs to complete and variations taken to value were appropriate.
The timing of revenue recognition is subject to judgements For an additional sample, we tested the monthly monitoring of the total forecast surrounding the costs expected to be incurred in completing revenue for the contract, costs expected to be incurred in its completion, the the work, as revenue on fixed price contracts is recognised on profit recognised to date and the working capital position on the contract.
There is also the opportunity to was tested by checking electronic sign off by a suitable individual.
No significant misstate the amount of variations expected.
issues were noted from our work.
Given the degree of subjectivity involved in determining To test the timing of contract revenue, we challenged senior management's costs to complete and the magnitude of variations, there judgements on the completeness of work for our sample of contracts by is also scope for error in the calculation of revenue and the checking original contracts, amendments to contracts, where applicable opportunity to misstate the allocation of revenue between e. g. due to agreed variations, and checking that the contractual milestones reporting periods.
We also read and considered the implications of correspondence with customers both upon the acceptance of work done The risk is, therefore, that contract revenue is not recognised and relating to disputes.
in the correct period or that revenue and associated profit is misstated.
No significant issues were noted from our work.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 114 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment, particularly in the Groups North America and global oil and gas cash generating units Refer to Audit Committee report page 75, Intangible Assets We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by page 132 and notes pages 150 to 153. which they were drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Boardapproved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations.
We challenged the We focused on this area because the determination of directors' key assumptions for: whether or not an impairment charge is required involves significant judgement, including forecasting the future results short-term sales growth rates and profit margins in the forecasts by of the business by estimating future sales growth rates, profit comparing them to short-term historical results and economic industry margins and inflation rates and determining the discount rate forecasts for the calculations.
long-term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to long-term historical results and economic industry forecasts We particularly focused on the goodwill held in respect of the Group's North America and global oil and gas cash generating the discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for all cash generating units as these together account for 179.3m 71% of the total units CGUs, using our specialist valuations knowledge and comparing the goodwill of 253.2m and have the least relative headroom.
Companys key inputs to externally derived data.
No impairment charge has been recognised in the year.
We compared the actual results for the financial year ended 31 March 2016 to the figures included in the prior year impairment models to consider whether IFRSs require complex and often detailed disclosure in the any forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, had been optimistic.
financial statements about goodwill and impairment.
In Actual performance in the Group's North America and global oil and gas addition to considering the need for any impairment charge, businesses were found to be lower than expected so we checked and found we focused on these disclosures because they form a valuable that the directors had appropriately reflected this in the cash flow models for communication, enabling users of the Financial Statements the financial year ended 31 March 2016. to understand the basis for any impairment recognised or not recognised.
Using our own independent analysis, we performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the value in use, which were: the discount rate the projected operating profit margins to identify how much each of these key drivers needed to change, either individually or collectively, before the goodwill was impaired.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We considered the related disclosures in note 15 to the Financial Statements page 150 by checking that they were compliant with IFRSs and that their presentation was consistent with our understanding of the key issues in this area.
We found that they appropriately describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions to these estimates, including specific disclosures on the key assumptions most sensitive to reasonable possible change.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Independent auditors report 115 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of net retirement plan liabilities Refer to notes page 173.
We liaised with the Groups actuaries and used our own actuarial specialists to evaluate the directors' assessment of the assumptions made in relation to The Group operates two significant defined benefit plans the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension plans.
We compared with total net post-retirement liabilities of 265.3m which the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates to national and are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of industry averages.
We checked with the Groups actuaries that there had been the Group: the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension no significant events or settlements that would impact the current pension Scheme.
We focused on this area because the valuation of plan We tested the Groups contributions to the bank statements and the pensions liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and technical paid out of the schemes by tracing them to the pension scheme bank accounts.
expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number of key assumptions including salary increases, We also tested the valuations of pension plan liabilities and assets as follows: inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material to test the inputs to the calculation of the liabilities, we compared the impact on the calculation of the liability.
discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities to our internally developed benchmarks and found that they were consistent There is also some judgement in the measurement of the to test the valuation of the assets, we obtained third party confirmations on fair value of pension assets giving rise to a risk of material ownership and valuation of pension assets.
We found these confirmations to misstatement in their valuation.
be consistent with the amounts disclosed in the Financial Statements.
The evidence we obtained supported the carrying value of the net retirement plan liabilities.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Group operates in a complex multinational tax We evaluated and challenged management's rationale for the level of environment and there are open tax and transfer pricing provisions held.
Where relevant, we obtained and assessed supporting matters with UK and overseas tax authorities.
In addition, documentation used by management to formulate the provisions, and from time to time the Group enters into transactions with considered the reasonableness of managements best estimate assessments.
complicated accounting and tax consequences.
To do this: We focused on this area due to the judgement required we assessed the impact of tax rate changes and other factors on the current in assessing the completeness and valuation of provisions tax charge to cover the risk of challenge of certain of the Group's we considered the status of recent and current tax enquiries in the UK and tax positions.
the US, and the macro-tax environment in each territory we considered the sensitivity of managements probability estimates used to calculate the value of provisions, where relevant we discussed with management all issues known to us, and considered the sufficiency of provisions in light of the matters discussed.
The evidence we obtained supported the amounts provided for uncertain tax positions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 116 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Captive insurance claim provisions The Group operates a captive insurance company, which We obtained the Groups schedule for the professional indemnity claims and provides self-insurance against claims such as professional checked it was complete by comparing it to Board and committee minutes indemnity and income protection.
The most significant and certain relevant correspondence with the Groups legal counsel.
For each provisions relate to alleged deficiencies found in work material claim, we discussed the issue with the Groups internal legal counsel performed by the Group.
and management of the captive insurance company in order to understand the latest position of the proceedings and assess the directors views as to the We focused on this area because the determination of the strength of the claim against the Group.
size of the provisions held and the settlement amounts are inherently judgemental.
We obtained a schedule from management detailing the income protection claim provisions per underwriting year.
We discussed the controls in place around the claims cycles with management and tested that controls had been working during the year.
We checked year-end provisions to Board and committee minutes and to claims schedules provided by the Group's claims specialists and evaluated the specialists as being suitably qualified or experienced.
We sought management explanation for significant movements in the period and substantiated managements claims by confirming with insurers, legal correspondence, where possible, and the Groups legal counsel.
From the evidence obtained, we consider the level of provisioning at the balance sheet date not to be materially misstated.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group reports its operating results and financial position in five segments, being UK and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of the Group's operating businesses and central functions.
The Group's operating reporting units vary significantly in size, the most significant being the UK and Europe.
For the purposes of our scoping we divided this reporting unit further by identifying those significant areas where we focused our work.
This included performing work on the shared service facility, giving us comfort over the centralised processes in the UK, and the key UK operating divisions selected based on their size or risk characteristics e. g. transportation.
We also performed an audit of the complete financial information of North America, the Middle East and Energy.
We issued instructions to our overseas teams, which included guidance on the areas of focus for the audit: we then had regular communication with them and a senior member of the Group team also attended all planning and clearance meetings, either in person or by telephone.
The Group engagement leader visited both North America and the Middle East for the clearance meetings.
We performed further specific audit procedures over Group functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury, postretirement benefits and material litigation, at the Groups head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 6.5 million 2015: 5.6 million How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before tax is a generally accepted auditing benchmark in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them individual misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6m 2015: 0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Independent auditors report 117 Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement in relation to going concern page 60.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements the information given in the Corporate governance report page 66 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit or otherwise misleading the statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the We have no Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides exceptions to report the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy page 09 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit the section of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no Committee page 73 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
exceptions to report The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust We have nothing assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future material to add or to performance, solvency or liquidity page 37 draw attention to the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated material to add or to draw attention to the directors explanation, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the We have nothing prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, material to add or to and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in draw attention to operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions page 37.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 118 Independent auditors report continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code, and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the Companys financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Independent auditors report 119 What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 15 June 2016 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 120 Financial Statements Contents Consolidated Income Statement 121 19 Deferred income tax 155 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 122 20 Financial risk management 157 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 123 21 Financial instruments 165 Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows 124 22 Derivative financial instruments 167 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 125 23 Other receivables 168 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 126 24 Trade and other receivables 168 25 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 169 Notes to the Financial Statements 26 Cash and cash equivalents 169 1 Accounting policies 127 27 Borrowings 170 2 Treasury policy and objectives 137 28 Trade and other payables 172 3 Segmental information 138 29 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 172 4 Joint ventures 140 30 Post-employment benefit liabilities 173 5 Operating profit analysis of costs by nature 141 31 Other non-current liabilities 184 6 Employee benefit costs 142 32 Ordinary shares 184 7 Net finance costs 143 33 Share-based payments 185 8 Income tax expense 143 34 Cash generated from used in continuing operations 188 9 Net loss profit on disposal of businesses 146 35 Analysis of net funds 188 10 Business combinations 147 36 Contingent liabilities 189 11 Exceptional items 148 37 Operating lease arrangements 189 12 Dividends 148 38 Capital and other financial commitments 189 13 Earnings per share EPS 149 39 Related party transactions 190 14 Parent Company Income Statement and Statement 40 Events occurring after the reporting period 191 of Comprehensive Income 149 41 Details of related undertakings of WS Atkins plc 192 15 Goodwill 150 16 Other intangible assets 153 Five Year Summary 196 17 Property, plant and equipment 154 Investor Information 199 18 Investments in subsidiaries 155 Cautionary Statement 201 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016
