Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Auto Trader Group plc Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Auto Trader Group plcs Group financial statements Overall group materiality: 7,756,000 the financial statements : which represents 5% of profit before tax.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at We conducted audit work over Materiality 27 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 week Auto Trader Group plc the parent period the period then ended: company, Auto Trader Limited the Groups UK trading company have been properly prepared in accordance with International and Auto Trader Holding Limited Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Groups financing company European Union: and Audit scope which together accounted for over have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 98% and 95% of Group revenue and the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Accounting for share-based payment Areas of What we have audited focus arrangements: and The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Continued implementation of new Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: customer billing system Singleview and its impact on revenue recognition.
the consolidated balance sheet as at 27 March 2016: the consolidated income statement for the period then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated statement of cash flows for the period then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, ended: and we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for the notes to the financial statements, which include the accounting example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved policies and other explanatory information.
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the management override of internal controls, including evaluating preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented European Union, and applicable law.
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified These are cross referenced from the financial statements and are as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we identified as audited.
tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
79 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Auto Trader Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for share-based payment arrangements We read the scheme rules for each of the four schemes implemented in Refer to page 55 of the Report of the Audit Committee, page 92 of the year to understand the terms and conditions attached to them, as well the Statement of Accounting Policies and note 27 of the Consolidated as confirming the number of share options granted and the date of grant, Financial Statements.
which were all consistent with the Directors calculations and disclosures.
In the year the Group has implemented four share-based payment We compared the risk free rate and volatility assumptions to externally derived schemes for certain members of management and employees, which data, as well as our own independently formed assessments in relation to are accounted for under IFRS 2 Share-based payment IFRS 2. these key inputs in order to assess whether the assumptions used were A share-based payment charge of 2.5m including associated reasonable.
All assumptions applied were in line with our independently national insurance costs has been recognised within the consolidated formed assessments and within an acceptable range.
income statement in the year.
We compared the expected lapse rate for employees leaving the business Determining the fair value of awards made under share-based to historical trends within the business and consider the assumptions applied payment arrangements is complex and requires the Directors to to be reasonable.
apply significant judgement as the assumptions used are inherently We assessed the Directors assessment of the likelihood of financial subjective.
The key assumptions applied in determining the fair value performance measures being achieved by comparing the assumptions to of awards made in the year include the risk free rate, the volatility the Groups future trading and cash flow forecasts covering the relevant rate, the expected lapse rate for potential leavers and the expected period, ensuring these were consistent with the forecasts used by the achievement of financial performance measures associated with Directors in assessing going concern and in preparing the viability statement.
No inconsistencies between the forecasts used were identified and the The Group engaged independent specialists to calculate the fair assumptions adopted were appropriate.
value of awards made using the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo We assessed the appropriateness of the option pricing models used option pricingmodels.
to determine the fair values by the Groups independent specialists.
We focused our work on the key assumptions adopted by The Black-Scholes model was applied for schemes, or elements of schemes, management and the appropriateness of the valuation which had only non-market performance conditions and the Monte Carlo methodologies applied.
model was used where market based performance conditions were in place.
The use of these pricing models was consistent with our expectations given the performance conditions attached to the share awards and accepted market practices.
We considered the appropriateness of the presentation of the share-based payment charge as a non-underlying expense.
We determined that this presentation was appropriate because the Group plans to make awards each year between now and 2018, and the income statement expense will only reflect a steady state once three years of awards have been made.
Accordingly, we believe adjusting for the share-based payment charge in the income statement will provide greater comparability of performance to the user of the financial statements.
Continued implementation of new customer billing system We performed testing over IT general controls in place over Singleview and Singleview and its impact on revenue recognition the Groups other key financial reporting systems which focused on controls The Group began the implementation of a new billing system, covering system changes, systems operations and user access and user Singleview, in 2013, and this has continued to be rolled out throughout rights.
Testing over the controls in operations did not identify any significant the 2016 financial year, with the majority of the Groups largest control deficiencies.
While we did identify some minor control deficiencies, customers being migrated to Singleview in the 2016 financial year.
these did not significantly impact our audit plan.
We obtained an understanding of the processes in place and performed The implementation and roll out of Singleview gives rise to a testing over the controls in operation over the migration of data to Singleview.
heightened risk over the recording of revenue.
The risk was identified The controls tested included reconciliations performed by management of in respect of three areas, as follows: data and billing information between Singleview and the legacy billing system and reviews performed by management of exception reports from Singleview The risk that data is not accurately migrated between the legacy designed to identify errors in billing data arising from data transfer.
From our system and Singleview resulting in incorrect customer billing work performed no issues were identified.
information: We performed testing over system interfaces between the Singleview system The risk that access to Singleview is not appropriately controlled and the Groups other financial reporting system.
This included reviews of and managed such that changes to billing data could be made exception reports designed to identify errors in the automatic transfer of billing inaccurately or in error: and data between the systems and performed detailed testing over the The risk that billing data held within Singleview does not interface reconciliations of revenue between the Singleview system and the Groups completely and accurately with the Groups other financial reporting financial reporting systems, with no exceptions being identified.
We performed testing over a sample of revenue transactions back to All of these areas of risk could result in misstatements in the recording customer contracts and rate cards which verified the accuracy of billing ofrevenues.
We found that, following the implementation of Singleview, the accuracy of revenue recorded was supported by the evidence obtained.
80 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern.
We have as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, nothing to report having performed our review.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Groupoperates.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the The Group comprises the following entities: Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auto Trader Limited and Webzone Limited being the Groups We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
trading entities which are based in the UK and the Republic of Ireland respectively: As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Auto Trader Group plc, the parent company of the Group: the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that Three active holding companies, one based in the UK Auto Trader the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that Holding Limited and two based in the Republic of Ireland: and the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date 24 UK based dormant holding companies which are in the process the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have of being liquidated.
concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions The Group audit team in the UK performed an audit of the complete can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the financial information of Auto Trader limited, Auto Trader Group plc Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
and Auto Trader Holding Limited, which we regarded as financially significant components of the Group.
These components accounted Other required reporting for over 98% and 95% of the Groups revenue and profit before tax for the period.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Materiality In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Directors report for the financial period for which the financial We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures ISAs UK & Ireland reporting on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on in our opinion: the financial statements as a whole.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no materially inconsistent with the information in exceptions to report.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the audited financial statements: or for the financial statements as a whole as follows: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing Overall Group 7,756,000 our audit: or materiality otherwise misleading.
How we 5% of profit before tax.
the statement given by the Directors on pages We have no determined it 55 to 56, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of exceptions to report.
Rationale for Profit from continuing operations before tax is the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, benchmark applied the key measure used both by the Board and that they consider the Annual Report taken as a externally by shareholders in evaluating the whole to be fair, balanced and understandable performance of the Group.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them materially inconsistent with our knowledge of misstatements identified during our audit above 388,000 as well the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the section of the Annual Report on pages We have no 55 and 56, as required by provision C. 3.8 exceptions to report.
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
81 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Auto Trader Group plc continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Directors remuneration and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in or liquidity of the Group our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have this responsibility.
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Corporate governance statement the Directors confirmation on page 33 of the We have nothing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision material to add or Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a to draw attention to.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Responsibilities for the financial statements and solvency or liquidity.
the audit the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have nothing Our responsibilities and those of the Directors describe those risks and explain how they are material to add or being managed or mitigated.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 77 and 78, the Directors are responsible for the the Directors explanation on page 35 of the We have nothing preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that Annual Report, in accordance with provision material to add or to they give a true and fair view.
C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have draw attention to.
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial consider that period to be appropriate, and statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
their statement as to whether they have a Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices reasonable expectation that the Group will Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of qualifications or assumptions.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation prior consent in writing.
to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries What an audit of financial statements involves and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements assurance that the financial statements are free from material are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed assessment of: our review.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Adequacy of information and explanations received circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in disclosed: our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the Directors: and this responsibility.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
82 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Auto Trader Group plc for the 52 week period ended 27 March 2016 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Matthew Hall Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester 9 June 2016 83 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
