S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C REP EPO OR RT T D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R REP EPO OR RT T F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S Independent auditors report to the members of AVEVA Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: AVEVA Group plcs financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS101 reduced disclosure framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited AVEVA Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Related notes 1 to 10 to the financial statements then ended Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements Statement of Group accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risk of material misstatement Risk of inappropriate revenue recognition on software licence contracts, in particular: Due to complex contractual arrangements, inappropriate application of the group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 Revenue for rental licence revenue recognition which could result in, for example, revenue being recorded when performance conditions have not been satisfied, incorrect deferral of revenue for support and maintenance and other obligations: and inappropriate licence revenue recognition in relation to cut off, as revenue may not have been recognised in the correct accounting period.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further eight components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 105% of adjusted pre-tax profit and 81% of Revenue.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 2.2m which represents approximately 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
69 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of AVEVA Group plc CONTINUED Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risk of material misstatement described below as that which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing this risk, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Inappropriate revenue recognition on rental licence software contract 90.6m 2015: 97.5m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 46 : Accounting policies page 111 : and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 80 Due to complex contractual arrangements, the risk in particular is inappropriate application of the group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 Revenue for rental licence revenue recognition which could result in, for example, revenue being recorded when performance conditions have not been satisfied, incorrect deferral of revenue for support and maintenance and other obligations: and inappropriate licence revenue recognition in relation to cut off for all significant revenue streams, as revenue may not have been recognised in the correct accounting period.
Our response to the risk We have reviewed and walked through the central process over the approval and recognition of revenue contracts across the group.
We have walked through and assessed the design effectiveness of key management controls over data input and IT.
A summary of our key procedures are: We have performed rental licence revenue sample transaction testing at a local and group level to ensure that revenue has been recorded in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 and has been appropriately recorded in the current year income statement or deferred on the balance sheet as appropriate.
This was achieved by testing a sample of contracts by agreeing licence revenues through to signed contracts or software licence agreements.
agreeing the revenue through to subsequent payment as evidence of collectability.
checking evidence to support that software has been delivered to customers and therefore correct timing of revenue recognition.
reviewing contract terms for any conditions that would impact the timing of the revenue recognition and in turn the completeness of deferred revenue ensuring appropriate allocation of the fair value and recognition of revenue for other deliverables included within the contract assessing whether revenue has been recognised in line with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18.
We have performed journals testing by selecting a sample of revenue journals and assessed the appropriateness of the journal by checking to supporting evidence and ensuring compliance with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18.
The sample selected was based on risk based criteria including but not limited to manual journal entries, those close to period end and postings that are inconsistent with roles and responsibilities.
We have tested managements methodology surrounding the fair value of the support and maintenance element of the revenue contracts.
To better understand the nature of the contractual relationships with customers, any contractual issues or any ongoing contractual obligations, we made enquiries of management within the business, including the sales team and legal counsel to ensure that appropriate obligations and commitments had been recorded in the financial statements.
We have performed a test of detail on a sample of deferred revenue and accrued revenue items to ensure it is in accordance with the revenue recognition principles.
We have performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue items booked either side of year end to ensure that licence revenue was only recognised for software in the period where the contract was signed by both AVEVA and the customer prior to year end and the software has been made available prior to the year end.
As a primary team we gained oversight of the testing performed by the overseas teams through: Our review of their reporting deliverables where they are required to report on any exceptions identified from their testing and unusual contractual terms and conditions: Reviewing contracts meeting the Board review threshold and: Reviewing any contracts identified as having unusual terms or conditions by management and or overseas audit teams to confirm appropriate recognition of revenue in accordance with the contract accounting policy.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 13 locations, which covered 81% of revenue.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee We conclude that revenue recognised in the year, and deferred as at 31 March 2016, is materially correct on the basis of our procedures performed both at group and by component audit teams.
70 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have further refined our revenue The reporting components where we Involvement with component teams recognition risk from the prior year to be performed audit procedures accounted In establishing our overall approach to the specific to the rental revenue due to the for 105% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax Group audit, we determined the type of complex contractual arrangements.
profit and 81% of the Groups Revenue.
work that needed to be undertaken at each For the current year, the full scope of the components by us, as the primary In the prior year we had the assessment of components contributed 57% of the audit engagement team, or by component the carrying value of goodwill in relation Groups adjusted pre-tax profit and 52% of auditors from other EY global network to the Enterprise Solutions business the Groups Revenue.
The specific scope firms operating under our instruction.
As a result components contributed 48% of the Of the five full scope components, audit of the groups reorganisation an exercise Groups adjusted pre-tax profit and 29% of procedures were performed on two was performed to identity the new Cash the Groups Revenue.
In the prior year the of these directly by the primary audit generating Units CGUs of the group.
The full scope and specific scope components team.
In addition audit procedures were new CGUs identified are on a geographical contributed 96% of the Groups pre-tax also performed by the primary audit basis which is also in line with the change profit and 81% of the Groups revenue.
team for two of the eight specific scope in operating segments in line with IFRS The audit scope of these components components.
For the remaining six specific 8.
Under the new CGUs the level of may not have included testing of all scope and three full scope components, headroom is now significantly greater significant accounts of the component the work was performed by component which has reduced the risk in relation but will have contributed to the coverage auditors, we determined the appropriate to potential impairment of goodwill.
of significant accounts tested for the level of involvement to enable us to Group.
The Group audit risk in relation determine that sufficient audit evidence The scope of our audit to revenue recognition was subject to had been obtained as a basis for our Tailoring the scope audit procedures at each of the full and opinion on the Group as a whole.
Our assessment of audit risk, our specific scope locations with revenue.
evaluation of materiality and our The Group audit team continued to follow allocation of performance materiality Of the remaining 17 components that a programme of planned visits that has determine our audit scope for each together represent an overall loss of 5% been designed to ensure that the Senior entity within the Group.
Taken together, to the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit: Statutory Auditor or his representative this enables us to form an opinion on none are individually greater than 5% of visits at least two 2015: two of the the consolidated financial statements.
the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit.
During the We take into account size, risk profile, these components, we performed other current years audit cycle, visits were the organisation of the group and procedures, including analytical review, undertaken by the primary audit team effectiveness of group-wide controls and testing a sample of revenue contracts to the component teams in India and changes in the business environment.
at group level which were in limited Germany 2015: Korea and Germany.
scope entities, testing of consolidation These visits involved, where appropriate, In assessing the risk of material journals and intercompany eliminations discussing the audit approach with the and foreign currency translation misstatement to the Group financial component team and any issues arising statements, and to ensure we had recalculations to respond to any from their work, meeting with local and potential risks of material misstatement adequate quantitative coverage of regional management, attending the significant accounts in the financial to the Group financial statements.
planning meeting in India and the closing statements, of the 30 reporting meeting in Germany and reviewing key components of the Group, we selected 13 The chart below illustrates the audit working papers on risk areas.
The coverage obtained from the work components that represent the principal primary team interacted regularly with business units within the Group.
performed by our audit teams.
the component teams during various stages of the audit, reviewed selected Of the 13 components selected, we working papers and were responsible Revenue performed an audit of the complete for the scope and direction of the audit financial information of five components process.
This, together with the additional full scope components which were procedures performed at Group level, gave selected based on their size or risk Full scope us appropriate evidence for our opinion components 52% characteristics.
For the remaining on the Group financial statements.
Specic scope eight components specific scope components 29% components, we performed audit Our application of materiality Other procedures 19% procedures on specific accounts within We apply the concept of materiality that component that we considered had in planning and performing the audit, the potential for the greatest impact on in evaluating the effect of identified Changes from the prior year the significant accounts in the financial misstatements on the audit and France, Germany and Korea have been statements either because of the size in forming our audit opinion.
designated as full scope components of these accounts or their risk profile.
this year, whereas they were designated Materiality as specific scope locations in the prior The magnitude of an omission or year.
We have changed the designation misstatement that, individually or in in order to obtain greater quantitative the aggregate, could reasonably be full scope coverage of the Groups expected to influence the economic key metrics.
We do not perceive any decisions of the users of the financial additional risk in these components and statements.
Materiality provides a no additional risk areas were discovered basis for determining the nature and as a result of the increase in audit scope.
extent of our audit procedures.
71 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of AVEVA Group plc CONTINUED In addition, we read all the financial and Starting basis Profit before tax 29.4m non-financial information in the annual Adjustments Exceptional items 14.0m report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Materiality Adjusted pre-tax profit 43.4m statements and to identify any information Materiality of 2.2m 5% of materiality basis that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent We determined materiality for the Group Audit work at component locations for the with, the knowledge acquired by us in to be 2.2 million, which is approximately purpose of obtaining audit coverage over the course of performing the audit.
If we 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit because, in significant financial statement accounts become aware of any apparent material our view, this is the most relevant measure is undertaken based on a percentage misstatements or inconsistencies we of the underlying financial performance of total performance materiality.
The consider the implications for our report.
For 2016 we used pre-tax performance materiality set for each profit adjusted for the aborted acquisition component is based on the relative scale Respective responsibilities of directors costs of Schneider Electric 10.2m and risk of the component to the Group as and auditor and certain restructuring costs 3.8m.
a whole and our assessment of the risk of As explained more fully in the Directors In 2015 we used pre-tax profit and misstatement at that component.
In the Responsibilities Statement set out on materiality for the Group was 3.1m.
current year, the range of performance page 67, the directors are responsible materiality allocated to components was for the preparation of the financial Performance materiality 0.5m to 0.9m 2015: 0.3m to 0.7m.
statements and for being satisfied The application of materiality at the that they give a true and fair view.
Our individual account or balance level.
It is set Reporting threshold responsibility is to audit and express at an amount to reduce to an appropriately An amount below which identified an opinion on the financial statements low level the probability that the misstatements are considered in accordance with applicable law and aggregate of uncorrected and undetected as being clearly trivial.
International Standards on Auditing UK misstatements exceeds materiality.
Those standards require us We agreed with the Audit Committee that to comply with the Auditing Practices On the basis of our risk assessments, we would report to them all uncorrected Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
together with our assessment of the audit differences in excess of 0.11m 2015: Groups overall control environment, 0.15m, which is set at 5% of planning This report is made solely to the our judgement was that performance materiality, as well as differences below companys members, as a body, in materiality was 75% 2015: 50% of our that threshold that, in our view, warranted accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of planning materiality, namely 1.7m 2015: reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit work 1.5m although we reduce our testing has been undertaken so that we might thresholds in areas of significant risk to We evaluate any uncorrected state to the companys members those appropriately reflect our assessment misstatements against both the matters we are required to state to them of risk in the business and to focus on quantitative measures of materiality in an auditors report and for no other the key judgements and estimates.
discussed above and in light of other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted We have increased our assessment of relevant qualitative considerations by law, we do not accept or assume performance materiality from 50% to in forming our opinion.
responsibility to anyone other than the 75% during the year as the previous audit company and the companys members as findings which warranted the reduction in Scope of the audit of the financial a body, for our audit work, for this report, performance materiality in the prior year statements or for the opinions we have formed.
were one off in nature, are not applicable An audit involves obtaining evidence to the current year audit and are not about the amounts and disclosures in Opinion on other matters prescribed by indicative of systemic issues in other the financial statements sufficient to give the Companies Act 2006 areas.
Our approach is designed to have reasonable assurance that the financial In our opinion: a reasonable probability of ensuring that statements are free from material the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatement, whether caused by fraud the part of the Directors Remuneration misstatements does not exceed our or error.
This includes an assessment Report to be audited has been properly materiality of 2.2 million for the group of: whether the accounting policies prepared in accordance with the financial statements as a whole.
are appropriate to the groups and the Companies Act 2006: and parent companys circumstances and the information given in the Strategic have been consistently applied and Report and the Directors Report for the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness financial year for which the financial of significant accounting estimates statements are prepared is consistent made by the directors: and the overall with the financial statements.
presentation of the financial statements.
72 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern, and longer-term viability, set out on page 33: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Marcus Butler Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading 24 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the AVEVA Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
