Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued 128 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Report on the financial statements Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Our opinion Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, page 136 Accounting policies and page 207 notes In our opinion, Aviva plcs Group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements : For UK Life including Friends Life insurance contract The work to address the valuation of the UK Life including Friends give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups liabilities, the Directors valuation of the provisions for Life insurance contract liabilities included the following procedures: and the parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the settlement of future claims involves complex and We tested on a sample basis the underlying data to source have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European subjective judgements about future events, both documentation.
Union: and internal and external to the business, for which small Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial changes in assumptions can result in material impacts industry knowledge and experience and we compared the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to the valuation of these liabilities.
methodology, models and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Understood and tested the governance process in place to As explained in the Accounting policies to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the determine the insurance contract liabilities, including testing the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the associated financial reporting control framework.
financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
We tested the key judgements and controls over the preparation of the manually calculated components of the liability.
We focused on What we have audited the consistency in treatment and methodology period-on-period, The financial statements included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report comprise: across life insurance funds and with reference to recognised the Consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2016: actuarial practice.
the Consolidated and Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: We used the results of an independent PwC annual benchmarking the Reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit for the year then ended: survey of assumptions to further challenge the assumption setting the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: process by comparing certain assumptions used relative to the the principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements: and Groups industry peers.
the notes to the financial statements which include other explanatory information.
Further testing was also conducted on the Annuitant Mortality, Credit Default and Expense assumptions as set out below.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting Based on the work performed, we consider that the assumptions framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and used to be in line with recognised market practices and, where applicable law.
Our audit approach As part of our consideration of the entire set of assumptions we focused particularly on the following three within the UK Life Context market including Friends Life given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
Our audit continued to focus on the valuation of insurance contract liabilities and the valuation of hard to value investments as well Annuitant Mortality Assumptions In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the annuitant as the valuation of certain intangible assets established through the acquisition of the Friends Life Group in the prior year.
Annuitant mortality assumptions require a high degree mortality assumptions: of judgement due to the number of factors which may We understood and tested the governance process in place to Overview influence mortality experience.
The differing factors determine the annuitant mortality methodology and assumptions.
Overall group materiality: 140 million which represents 5% of operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits which affect the assumptions are underlying mortality We tested the methodology used by management to derive the after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs.
experience in the portfolio, industry and management assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance Based on the outputs of a risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva structure, we performed full scope audits views on the future rate of mortality improvements and and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
over the following markets: UK Life including Friends Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, Italy and France Life.
external factors arising from developments in the We assessed the results of the experience investigations carried out We identified a further four markets where account balances are considered to be significant in size in relation to the Group, and annuity market.
by UK Life including Friends Life management for the annuity scoped our audit to include detailed testing of those account balances.
business to determine whether they provided support for the Further audit procedures were performed by the Group engagement team, including over the head office operations and the assumptions used by management.
consolidation process, to ensure that sufficient coverage was obtained.
We compared the mortality assumptions selected by UK Life Our risk assessment analysis identified the following as areas of focus : including Friends Life against those used by their peers.
Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities.
Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we Valuation of hard to value investments.
consider the assumptions used for annuitant mortality to be Valuation of finite lived intangible assets relating to the Friends Life Group Limited acquisition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In respect of the credit default assumptions : Credit default risk assumptions for corporate We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In bonds and commercial and equity release We understood and tested the governance process in place to particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting mortgage assets determine the credit default risk methodology and assumptions.
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits UK Life including Friends Life for corporate bonds only We tested the methodology and credit risk pricing models used for we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias has substantial holdings in asset classes with significant commercial and equity release mortgages by management to by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
credit risk, notably, corporate bonds and commercial derive the assumptions with reference to relevant rules and The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, and equity release mortgages.
actuarial guidance, and by applying our industry knowledge and are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific experience.
areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our Management use an active approach to setting the We validated significant assumptions used by management against procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
For both corporate bonds and mortgages market observable data to the extent available and relevant and a long term deduction from the current market yield is our experience of market practices.
made and a supplementary provision is held to cover the risk of higher short term default rates.
Based on the work performed, we consider the allowance for credit default risk to be appropriate.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued 129 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Report on the financial statements Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Our opinion Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, page 136 Accounting policies and page 207 notes In our opinion, Aviva plcs Group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements : For UK Life including Friends Life insurance contract The work to address the valuation of the UK Life including Friends give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups liabilities, the Directors valuation of the provisions for Life insurance contract liabilities included the following procedures: and the parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the settlement of future claims involves complex and We tested on a sample basis the underlying data to source have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European subjective judgements about future events, both documentation.
- Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities.
- Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we - Valuation of hard to value investments.
consider the assumptions used for annuitant mortality to be - Valuation of finite lived intangible assets relating to the Friends Life Group Limited acquisition.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued 130 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Expense Assumptions In respect of the expense assumptions : Valuation of finite lived intangible assets relating to the Friends Life Group Limited acquisition Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, page 136 Accounting policies and page 178 notes Future maintenance expenses and expense inflation We understood and tested the governance process in place to On acquisition of Friends Life Group Limited, Aviva For the finite lived intangible assets we performed the following assumptions are used in the measurement of insurance determine the maintenance expense and expense inflation procedures: recognised the Acquired Value of In Force Business AVIF and participating investment contract liabilities and any assumptions.
4,790 million in respect of the insurance and We agreed data to underlying documentation on a sample basis.
The assumptions used We tested the methodology used by management to derive the Understood and tested the governance process in place to investment contract portfolios.
assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance determine the finite lived intangible assets, including testing the Under IFRS, the intangible asset is amortised each period and by applying our industry knowledge and experience, including associated financial reporting control framework.
in accordance with IAS 38 non-participating investment assessing the appropriateness of a service fee approach to We examined the new amortisation and impairment contracts and IFRS 4 insurance contracts.
Further, the allowance for internal service company arrangements.
methodology to check it is in accordance with IFRS requirements.
Group has to, at least annually, perform impairment We validated significant assumptions used by management against We tested managements application of the methodology by retesting on the non-participating investment contract AVIF past experience, market observable data and our experience of performing the amortisation and impairment calculations as under IAS 36 and the insurance contract AVIF is assessed market practices.
as part of the wider liability adequacy test under IFRS 4.
We assessed the disclosures in the year end accounts.
Based on the work performed, we consider the assumptions for expense risk to be appropriate.
Based on the work performed, we consider the valuation of the Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities finite lived intangibles to be appropriate.
Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, page 136 Accounting policies and page 211 notes The estimation of non-life insurance contract liabilities In the UK General Insurance and Canada markets, we assessed the How we tailored the audit scope involves a significant degree of judgement.
The Directors calculation of the non-life insurance liabilities by We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial liabilities are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost of performing the following procedures: statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, We tested on a sample basis the underlying data to source industry in which the group operates.
whether reported or not, together with the related documentation.
Using the outputs of a risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva structure, we scoped our audit based on the claims handling costs.
A range of methods, including Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our significance of the results and financial position of individual markets relative to the Group result and financial position.
In doing stochastic projections, may be used to determine these industry knowledge and experience and we compared the so, we also considered qualitative factors and checked that we obtained sufficient coverage across all financial statement line items provisions.
Underlying these methods are a number of methodology, models and assumptions used against recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
This scope provided us with audit coverage in excess of 78% for Operating profit before explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the expected actuarial practices.
tax and, after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs, 80% for Gross Written Premiums and 84% for Total Assets.
settlement amount and settlement patterns of claims.
Understood and tested the governance process in place to The Groups primary reporting format is along market reporting lines with supplementary information being given by business This includes assumptions relating to the settlement of determine the insurance contract liabilities, including testing the activity.
The operating segments of the Group are United Kingdom & Ireland Life and General Insurance, France, Poland, Italy, personal injury lump sum compensation amounts.
associated financial reporting control framework.
Spain and Other, Canada, Asia, Aviva Investors and Other Group Activities.
Regulators across the globe continue to focus on Our actuarial specialist team members performed independent reIn establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each reserving adequacy for non-life insurers, particularly in projections on selected classes of business, particularly focusing on of the markets by us, as the Group audit team, or auditors of the markets within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms the current market.
Given their size in relation to the the largest and most uncertain reserves.
For these classes we operating under our instructions.
Work was performed by local engagement teams in the following markets: UK Life including consolidated Group and the complexity of the compared our re-projected claims reserves to those booked by Friends Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, France Life, Aviva Investors UK, Spain, Italy, Poland and Asia Friends Provident judgements involved our work focused on the liabilities management, and sought to understand any significant International Limited.
in the UK General Insurance and Canada markets.
Where the work was performed by auditors of the markets, we determined the level of involvement we needed as the Group For the remaining classes we evaluated the methodology and audit team to have in the audit work at those markets to be able to conclude whether sufficient and appropriate audit evidence assumptions, or performed a diagnostic check to identify and had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team kept in regular follow up any anomalies.
communication with reporting market audit teams including visits to teams based in Aviva operating locations at Bristol, York and Norwich in the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Italy, Spain, Poland and Hong Kong, regular phone calls, discussions and written Based on the work performed we consider the non-life insurance instructions, where appropriate.
contract liabilities to be appropriately valued.
Valuation of hard to value investments Materiality Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, page 136 Accounting policies and page 184 notes The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of Given the ongoing market volatility and macroeconomic For these hard to value investments we assessed both the our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, uncertainty, investment valuation continues to be an methodology and assumptions used by management in the both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
The risk is not uniform for all calculation of the year end values as well as testing the governance investment types and is greatest for the following, controls that the Directors have in place to monitor these processes.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: where the investments are hard to value because The testing included performing the following procedures: quoted prices are not readily available: We agreed data inputs to underlying documentation.
Commercial mortgage loans UK Life.
We evaluated the methodology and assumptions in particular, yield Overall Group materiality 140 million 2015: 114 million.
Equity release and UK securitised mortgage loans UK curves, discounted cash flows, property growth rates and liquidity How we determined it 5% of operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders Life.
premium used within the valuation models.
profits after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs.
Structured bond-type investments France Life.
We compared the assumptions used against appropriate Rationale for benchmark applied In determining our materiality, we considered financial metrics Collateralised loan obligations and non-recourse loans benchmarks and investigated significant differences.
which we believed to be relevant, and concluded, consistent with UK Life.
We tested the operation of data integrity and change management last year, that operating profit before tax and after the deduction controls for the models.
of integration and restructuring costs was the most relevant We used our valuation experts to perform independent valuations, benchmark.
Operating profit presents a longer-term assessment where applicable.
of the performance of the entity which is more in line with the operations and time horizons of an insurer where insurance Based on the work performed, we considered the assumptions used contracts and customer relationships span over multiple years.
by management to be appropriate.
We believe that it is appropriate to deduct integration and restructuring costs as Aviva incur a base level of restructuring costs, even outside times of significant restructuring.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 5 million 2015: 5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements IInde ndepe pen nde dent nt a audi udit tor ors s re rep po ort to rt to th the e m me em mb be er rs s o of A f Av viiv va a p pllc c c cont ontiinue nued d IInde ndepe pen nde dent nt a audi udit tor ors s re rep po ort to rt to th the e m me em mb be er rs s o of A f Av viiv va a p pllc c c cont ontiinue nued d 130 131 A Ar re ea a of of f foc ocus us H How ow our our a audi udit t a addr ddre es ss se ed t d the he a ar re ea a of of f foc ocus us A Ar re ea a of of f foc ocus us H How ow our our a audi udit t a addr ddre es ss se ed t d the he a ar re ea a of of f foc ocus us E Ex xpe pens nse e A As ss sum umpt ptio ions ns IIn r n re es sp pe ec ct t of of t the he e ex xpe pens nse e a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons : : Va Vallua uat tiion of on of f fiini nit te e l liiv five ed i d int nta angi ngibl ble e a as ss se et ts s r re ella at tiing ng t to t o the he F Fr riie ends nds L Liif fe e G Gr roup oup L Liim miit te ed a d ac cqui quis siit tiion on R Ref efer er t to o p pag age e 95 95 A Audi udit t C Com omm miit tt te ee e Re Repor port t, , pa page ge 1 136 36 A Ac cc count ountiin ng pol g poliic ciie es s a and pa nd page ge 178 178 n not ote es s F Fut utur ure e m ma aiint nte en na anc nce e e ex xp pe ens nse es s a and e nd ex xp pe ens nse e i inf nflla at tiion on W We e un unde der rs st to ood od a and t nd te es st te ed t d th he e gov gove er rn na anc nce e pr proc oce es ss s i in pl n pla ac ce e t to o O On a n ac cqui quis siit tiio on of n of F Fr riie ends nds L Liif fe e G Gr roup L oup Liim miit te ed, d, A Av viiv va a F For or t the he f fiini nit te e l liiv five ed d iint nta angi ngibl ble e a as ss se et ts s w we e pe per rf for orm me ed t d the he f foll ollow owiin ng g a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons a ar re e us use ed d iin t n the he m me ea as sur ure em me ent nt of of i ins nsur ura anc nce e d det eter erm miin ne t e th he m e mai ain nt te en nan anc ce ex e exp pen ens se e an and d ex exp pe en ns se e iin nf fllat atiio on n pr proc oce edur dure es s:: r re ec cogni ognis se ed t d the he A Ac cqu quiir re ed V d Va allu ue e of of I In F n For orc ce e Bus Busiine fines ss s A AVI VIF F a and pa nd par rt tiic ciipa pat tiing i ng inv nve es st tm me ent nt c co ont ntr ra ac ct t lliia ab biilliit tiie es s a and nd a an ny y a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons.. 4, 4,79 790 m 0 miilllliion on i in n r re es sp pe ec ct t of of t th he e i ins nsur ura anc nce e a an nd d W We e ag agr ree eed d d da at ta t a to o u unde nder rlly yiing ng d doc ocum ume ent nta at tiion on on a on a s sa am mpl ple e b ba as siis s.. a as ss soc ociia at te ed r d re eiins nsur ura anc nce e a as ss se et ts s.. T The he a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons us use ed d W We t e tes est ted ed t th he m e met eth ho od do ollo og gy y u us sed ed b by y m man anag agem emen ent t t to o d der eriiv five t e th he e U Unde nder rs st to ood a od and t nd te es st te ed d t the he gov gove er rna nanc nce e pr proc oce es ss s i in n pl pla ac ce e t to o iinv nve es st tm me ent nt c cont ontr ra ac ct p t po ortfo rtfolliio os s.. r re equi quir re e s siigni gnif fiic ca ant nt j jud udge gem me ent nt.. a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons w wiit th r h re ef fe er re enc nce e t to r o re elle ev va ant nt r ru ulle es s a and nd a ac ct tua uar riia all gu guiid da anc nce e fide det te er rm miine ne t th he e f fiini nit te e l liiv five ed d iint nta an ngi gibl ble e a as ss se et ts s, i inc nclludi uding t ng te es st tiing ng t th he e U Unde nder r IIF FRS RS, t the he iint nta angi ngibl ble e a as ss se et t i is s a am mor ort tiis se ed e d ea ac ch p h pe er riiod od a and by nd by a app pplly yiing ng our our i ind ndus ust tr ry y k kn now owlle edg dge e a and e nd ex xpe per riie enc nce e, iinc ncllud udiing ng a as ss soc ociia at te ed f d fiina nanc nciia all r re ep por ort tiin ng c g cont ontr rol ol f fr ra am me ew wor ork k.. iin a n ac cc cor ord da anc nce e w wiit th I h IA AS S 38 38 no non n- -pa par rt tiic ciipa pat tiing i ng inv nve es st tm me ent nt a as ss se es ss siing t ng the he a appr ppropr opriia at te ene fines ss s o of f a a s se er rv viic ce e f fe ee e a appr ppro oa ac ch t h to o We We e ex xa am miine ned d t the he ne new w a am mor ort tiis sa at tiion a on and nd iimp mpa aiir rme men nt t c co on ntra trac cts ts a an nd d I IF FR RS S 4 4 iin ns su ur ra an nc ce e c co on ntra trac cts ts.. F Fu urth rthe er, r, th the e a allo llow wan anc ce f e fo or r i in nt ter ern final al s ser erv viic ce c e co om mp pan any y ar arr ran ang gem emen ent ts s.. m me et thodo hodollogy ogy t to c o ch he ec ck k iit t i is s iin a n ac cc cor orda danc nce e w wiit th I h IF FR RS S r re equi quir re em me ent nts s.. G Gro rou up p h ha as s to to, a at l t le ea as st t a an nn nu ua alllly y, p pe erfo rform rm i im mp pa aiirm rme en nt t W We v e val aliid dat ated ed s sig ign nif ific ica an nt t a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons us use ed by d by m ma ana nage gem me ent nt a ag ga aiins nst t We We t tes est ted ed m man anag agem emen ent ts s a app pplliic ca at tiion on of of t th he e m me et tho hodol dology ogy by by r re e- - t te es st tiing ng on t on the he n no onn-p pa arti rtic ciip pa at tiin ng g i in nv five es stm tme en nt c t co on ntra trac ct AV t AVIIF F p pas ast t ex exp per eriien enc ce, e, m mar arke ket t o ob bs ser erv vab ablle d e dat ata a an and d o ou ur r ex exp per eriien enc ce e o of f pe per rf for orm miin ng t g th he e a am mor ort tiis sa at tiio on a n an nd i d im mpa paiir rm me ent nt c ca allc cul ula at tiions ons a as s unde under r I IA AS S 36 36 a and nd t the he iins nsur ura anc nce e c cont ontr ra ac ct t A AV VIIF F iis s a as ss se es ss se ed d m mar arket ket p pr rac act tiic ces es.. a ap pp pro rop pri ria ate te.. as as p par art t o of f t th he w e wiid der er l liiab abiilliit ty y ad ade eq qu uac acy y t tes est t u un nd der er I IF FR RS 4 S 4.. We We a asse ssess sse ed d t th he e d diis sc cllos osur ure es s iin t n the he y ye ea ar r e end nd a ac cc count ounts s.. Ba Bas se ed d on t on the he w wor ork k p pe erfo rform rme ed d, w we e c cons onsiid fide er r t th he e a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons f fo or r e exp xpen ens se r e riis sk k t to o b be e ap app pr ro op pr riiat ate.
e. Ba Bas se ed d on t on the he w wor ork k p pe er rf for orm me ed d, w we e c cons onsiid fide er r t th he e v va allua uat tiion of on of t th he e Va Vallua uat tiion of on of non non- -lif life e in ins su ur ra an nc ce e c co on nt tr ra ac ct t lia liab bil ilit itie ies s f fiini nit te e l liiv five ed i d int nta angi ngib blle es s t to b o be e a ap ppr propr opriia at te e.. R Ref efer er t to o p pag age e 9 95 5 A Audi udit t C Com omm miit tt te ee e Re Repor port t, , pa page ge 1 136 36 A Ac cc count ountiin ng pol g poliic ciie es s a and pa nd page ge 2 211 11 n not ote es s T The he e es st tiim ma at tiion of on of no non n- -lif life e i in ns su ur ra an nc ce e c co on nt tr ra ac ct t l lia iab bilit ilitie ies s IIn n t th he U e UK K G Ge en ner eral al IIn ns su ur ran anc ce e an and d C Can anad ada m a mar ark ket ets s, w we e as ass ses ess sed ed t th he e H How ow w we e t ta aiillo or red ed t the he a audi udit t s sc cope ope iin nvo vollve ves s a a s siig gni nif fiic ca ant nt d fide egr gre ee e of of jjudge udgem me ent nt.. T The he Di Dire rec cto tors rs c ca allc cu ulla at tiio on o n of f t the he non non- -lif life e in ins su ur ra an nc ce e li lia ab biilit litie ies s b by y W We e t ta aiillor ore ed t d the he s sc cop ope e of of our our a au udi dit t t to o e ens nsur ure e t th ha at t w we e p pe er rf for orm me ed e d en nough ough w wor ork k t to be o be a ab blle e t to g o giiv five e a an n opi opini nion on on t on th he e f fin ina an nc cia ial l lliiab abiilliit tiies es ar are e b bas ased ed o on n t th he b e bes est t- -es est tiim mat ate e u ullt tiim mat ate c e co os st t o of f pe per rf for orm miin ng t g th he e f fol olllow owiin ng pr g proc oce edur dure es s:: s st ta at te em me ent nts s a as s a a w wh hol ole e, t ta ak kiin ng i g int nto a o ac cc cou ount nt t th he e ge geogr ogra aph phiic c s st tr ruc uct tur ure e of of t the he gr grou oup, p, t th he e a ac cc cou ount ntiing ng pr proc oce es ss se es s a and nd c cont ontr ro olls s, a and nd t the he a allll c clla aiim ms s i inc ncur urr re ed d but but n not ot s se et tt tlle ed a d at t a a gi giv five en d n da at te e, W We t e tes est ted ed o on a n a s sa am mpl ple e ba bas siis s t th he e un unde der rlly yiing ng da dat ta a t to s o so our urc ce e iindus ndust tr ry y i in w n whi hic ch t h the he gr group oup op ope er ra at te es s.. w wh he eth the er r r re ep po orte rted d o or n r no ot, t, to tog ge et th he er w r wiith th t th he e r re ella ate ted d doc docum ume ent nta at tiion on.. U Us siing t ng th he e out output puts s of of a a r riis sk k a as ss se es ss sm me ent nt, a allo ong w ng wiit th h our our und unde er rs st ta andi nding o ng of f t the he A Av viiv va a s st tr ruc uct tur ure e, w we e s sc cope oped d our our a aud udiit t b ba as se ed d on t on the he c clla aiim ms s ha han ndl dliing c ng cos ost ts s.. A A r ra ang nge e of of m me et thods hods, i inc nclludi udin ng g U Us siing ou ng our r a ac ct tu ua ar riia all s sp pe ec ciia alliis st t t te ea am m m me em mbe ber rs s, w we e a appl ppliie ed our d our s siigni gnif fiic ca anc nce e of of t th he e r re es su ullt ts s a and f nd fiina nanc nciia all p pos osiit tiion of on of iind ndiiv viidu dua all m ma ar rk ke et ts s r re ella at tiiv five e t to t o th he e G Gr ro oup r up re es sul ult t a and f nd fiina nanc nciia all pos posiit tiion.
IIn d n doi oing ng st stoc ocha has st tiic c pr pro ojje ec ct tiions ons, m ma ay y b be e u us se ed t d to o fide det te er rm miine ne t the hes se e iindus ndust tr ry y k know nowlle edg dge e a and nd e ex xpe per riie enc nce e a an nd w d we e c com ompa par re ed t d the he s so o, w we a e alls so o c co on ns siid der ered ed q qu ual aliit tat atiiv five f e fac act to or rs s a an nd d c ch hec ecke ked d t th hat at w we e o ob bt tai ain ne ed d s su uf ff fiic ciien ent t c co ov ver erag age ac e acr ro os ss s al alll f fiin nan anc ciia all s st tat atem emen ent t lliin ne i e it tem ems s pr prov oviis siions ons.. U Und nde er rlly yiin ng t g th he es se e m me et thods hods a ar re e a a num numb be er r of of m me et thodo hodollogy ogy, m mod ode ells s a and nd a as ss su um mpt ptiions ons us use ed a d aga gaiins nst t r re ec co ogni gnis se ed d iin t n th he e c cons onso olliid da at te ed d f fiin na anc nciia all s st ta at te em me ent nts s.. T Thi his s s sc cop ope e pr prov oviide ded us d us w wiit th a h au udi dit t c cov ove er ra ag ge e i in e n ex xc ce es ss s o of f 78% 78% fo for O r Op pe er ra ati tin ng g p pro rof fiit b t be efo fore re e ex xpl pliic ciit t or or i im mpl pliic ciit t a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons r re ella at tiing t ng to t o th he e e ex xp pe ec ct te ed d ac act tu uar ariial al p pr rac act tiic ces es.. t ta ax x a and nd, a af ft te er r t th he e d fide educ duct tiion of on of i int nte egr gra at tiio on a n and r nd re es st tr ruc uct tur uriin ng c g co os st ts s, 80% 80% f for or G Gr ros oss s W Wr riit tt te en P n Pr re em miium ums s a and nd 84 84% % fo for r T To ota tall As Ass se et ts s.. s se ettl ttle em me en nt a t am mo ou un nt a t an nd d s se ett ttlle em me en nt p t pa atte tter rn ns s o of c f clla aiim ms s.. U Unde nder rs st to ood a od and t nd te es st te ed d t the he gov gove er rna nanc nce e pr proc oce es ss s i in n pl pla ac ce e t to o T The he G Gr roup oups s pr priim ma ar ry y r re epor port tiing f ng for orm ma at t i is s a allon ong m g ma ar rk ke et t r re epor port tiing ng l liin ne es s w wiit th s h su uppl pple em me ent nta ar ry y i inf nfor orm ma at tiion b on be eiing g ng giiv five en n by by b bu usi sin ne ess ss T Thi his s i inc ncllud ude es s a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons r re ella at tiing t ng to t o th he e s se ettl ttle em me en nt o t of f fide det te er rm miine ne t th he e i ins nsur ura anc nce e c cont ontr ra ac ct t l liia ab biilliit tiie es s, iinc nclu ludi din ng t g te es st tiing t ng th he e a ac ct tiiv viit ty y.. T Th he e o ope per ra at tiin ng s g se egm gme ent nts s of of t the he G Gr roup oup a ar re e U Uni nit te ed K d Kiing ngdom dom & & I Ir re ella an nd d L Liif fe e a and G nd Ge ene ner ra all I Ins nsur ura anc nce e, , F Fr ra anc nce e, P Pol ola and nd, It Ita aly ly, pe per rs son ona all iinj njur ury y l lum ump s p sum um c com omp pe ens nsa at tiion on a am mount ounts s.. as ass so oc ciiat ated ed f fiin nan anc ciial al r rep epo or rt tiin ng c g cont ontr rol ol f fr ra am me ew wor ork k.. S Spa paiin a n and nd O Ot th he er r, C Can anad ada, a, A As siia a, A Av viiv va I a In nv ves est to or rs s an and d O Oth the er G r Gro rou up p Ac Acti tiv viiti tie es s.. Re Regu gulla at tor ors s a ac cr ros oss s t th he e gl glob obe e c con ont tiinue nue t to f o foc ocus us on on O Our ur a ac ct tua uar riia all s spe pec ciia alliis st t t te ea am m m me em mbe ber rs s pe per rf for orm me ed i d inde ndepe pen nde dent nt r re e- - IIn e n es st ta abl bliis shi hin ng t g th he e ov ove er ra allll a ap ppr pro oa ac ch t h to t o th he e G Gr ro oup a up audi udit t, w we e d fide et te er rm miine ned d t the he t ty ype pe of of w wor ork k t tha hat t ne nee ede ded d t to b o be e p pe er rf for orm me ed d a at t e ea ac ch h r res eser erv viin ng g ad adeq equ uac acy y f fo or r n no on n- -llif ife e in ins su ur re er rs s, p pa ar rt tic icu ula lar rly ly in in pr proj oje ec ct tiions ons o on s n se elle ec ct te ed c d clla as ss se es s of of bus busiine fines ss s, p pa ar rt tiic cu ulla ar rlly y f foc ocus usiin ng on g on of of t the he m ma ar rk ke et ts s by by us us, a as s t the he G Gr roup oup a audi udit t t te ea am m, or or a audi udit tor ors s of of t the he m ma ar rk ke et ts s w wiit th hiin n P Pw wC C U UK K or or f fr rom om ot othe her r P Pw wC C ne net tw wor ork k f fiir rm ms s t th he c e cu ur rr ren ent t m mar arket ket.. G Giiv ven en t th hei eir r s siiz ze i e in n r rel elat atiio on n t to o t th he e t th he l e lar arg ges est t an and d m mo os st t u un nc ce er rt tai ain n r res eser erv ves es.. F Fo or r t th hes ese e c cllas ass ses es w we e ope oper ra at tiin ng un g unde der r our our i ins nst tr ruc uct tiio on ns s.. W Wor ork k w wa as s pe per rf for orm med ed b by y llo oc cal al en eng gag agem emen ent t t team eams s i in n t th he f e fo ollllo ow wiin ng g m mar ark ket ets s:: U UK K L Liif fe e in inc cllu udi ding ng c cons onsol oliid da at te ed G d Gr rou oup a p and t nd th he e c co om mp plle ex xiity ty o of th f the e c com ompa par re ed our d our r re e- -p pro rojje ec cte ted d c clla aiim ms s re res se erv rve es s t to t o th hos ose e b book ooke ed d by by Fr Friie en nd ds s Li Lif fe e, , U UK K G Gen ener eral al I In ns su ur ra an nc ce, e, C Ca an nad ada, a, F Fr ra an nc ce L e Liif fe, e, A Av viiv va a IIn nv ves est to or rs s U UK K, Sp Spai ain n, I It tal aly y, P Po ollan and d an and d A As siia a F Fr riien end ds s Pr Pro ov viid fide en nt t jjudg udge em me ent nts s i inv nvol olv five ed our d our w wor ork k f foc ocus use ed o d on t n th he e l liia ab biilliit tiie es s m ma ana nag ge em me ent nt, a and s nd sough ought t t to u o un nde der rs st ta an nd a d any ny s sign igniif fiic ca ant nt IIn nte tern rna ati tio on na all L Liim miite ted d.. iin n t th he U e UK K G Ge en ner eral al IIn ns su ur ran anc ce e an and d C Can anad ada m a mar ark ket ets s.. d diif ff fer eren enc ces es.. W Wh he er re e th the e w wo ork rk w wa as s p pe erfo rform rme ed d b by y au aud diit to or rs s o of f t th he m e mar ark ket ets s, w we d e det eter erm miin ned ed t th he l e lev evel el o of f i in nv vo ollv vem emen ent t w we e n ne eed ede ed d as as t th he G e Gr ro ou up p F Fo or r t th he r e rem emai ain niin ng g c cllas ass ses es w we e ev eval alu uat ated ed t th he e m met eth ho od do ollo og gy y an and d au aud diit t t te eam am t to o h hav ave i e in n t th he au e aud diit t w wo or rk at k at t th ho os se m e mar arket kets s t to o b be a e ab blle t e to o c co on nc cllu ud fide w e wh het eth her er s su uf ff fiic ciien ent t an and d ap app pr ro op pr riiat ate au e aud diit t ev eviid den enc ce e a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons, or or p pe er rf for orm me ed d a a d diia agnos gnost tiic c c che hec ck k t to i o id fide ent ntiif fy y a an nd d ha had d be bee en o n obt bta aiine ned a d as s a a b ba as siis s f fo or r our our o opi pin niio on n o on n t th he f e fiin nan anc ciial al s st tat atem emen ent ts s as as a w a wh ho olle.
e. T Th he G e Gr ro ou up p au aud diit t t team eam k kep ept t iin n r reg egu ullar ar f fol olllow ow u up a p any ny a an nom oma alliie es s.. c com omm muni unic ca at tiion w on wiit th r h re epor port tiing ng m ma ar rk ke et t a aud udiit t t te ea am ms s i inc ncllu udi din ng v g viis siit ts s t to t o te ea am ms s ba bas se ed i d in n A Av viiv va a op ope er ra at tiing ng l loc oca at tiions ons a at t Br Briis st tol ol, Y Yor ork k a and nd N Nor orw wiic ch i h in t n the he U Un niit te ed K d Kiingd ngdom om, F Fr ra anc nce e, C Ca an na ada da, I It ta ally y, S Spa paiin, n, P Pol ola an nd a d and H nd Ho ong K ng Kong, ong, r re eg gula ular r phon phone e c ca alllls s, d diis sc cus uss siions ons a and w nd wr riit tt te en n Ba Bas se ed d on t on the he w wor ork k p pe er rf fo or rm me ed d w we e c co on ns siide der r t the he n non on- -lliif fe e i ins nsur ura anc nce e iins nst tr ruc uct tiions ons, w whe her re e a appr ppropr opriia at te e.. c co on nt tr ra ac ct t li lia ab bilit ilitie ies s t to o b be e a ap pp pr ro op pr ria iat te ely ly v va alu lue ed d.. Va Vallua uat tiion of on of ha har rd t d to v o va allue ue i inv nve es st tm me ent nts s M Mat ater eriial aliit ty y Re Ref fe er r t to pa o page ge 95 95 A Audi udit t C Com omm miit tt te ee e Re Repor port t, , pa page ge 136 136 A Ac cc count ountiin ng pol g poliic ciie es s a and pa nd page ge 184 184 n not ote es s T The he s sc co ope pe of of our our a au udi dit t w wa as s iinf nfllue uenc nce ed by d by our our a ap ppl pliic ca at tiio on of n of m ma at te er riia alliit ty y.. W We e s se et t c ce er rt ta aiin n qu qua ant ntiit ta at tiiv five e t thr hre es sho hollds ds f for or m mat ater eriial aliit ty y.. T The hes se e, t to oge get th he er r w wiit th h qu qua alliit ta at tiiv five e c cons onsiide der ra at tiions ons, h he ellp pe ed d us us t to d o fide et te er rm miine ne t the he s sc cop ope e of of our our a aud udiit t a and t nd the he na nat tur ure e, t tiim miing ng a and nd e ex xt te en nt o t of f G Giiv five en t n th he e on ongoi going m ng ma ar rk ke et t vo volla at tiilliit ty a y an nd d m ma acr cro oe eco con no om miic c F For or t the hes se e ha har rd t d to o v va allu ue i e in nv ves est tm men ent ts s w we e as ass ses ess sed ed b bo ot th h t th he e our our a audi udit t pr proc oce ed dur ure es s on t on th he e i ind ndiiv viidua duall f fiina nanc nciia all s st ta at te em me ent nt l liine ne i it te em ms s a and nd di dis sc cllos osur ure es s a an nd i d in e n ev va allua uat tiing t ng the he e ef ff fe ec ct o t of f m miis ss sta tate tem me en nts ts, unc unce er rt ta aiint nty y, i inv nve es st tm me ent nt v va allu ua at tiio on c n cont ontiin nue ues s t to be o be a an n m me et thodo hodollogy ogy a and a nd as ss sum umpt ptiions ons us use ed d by by m ma ana nag ge em me ent nt i in n t th he e bot both i h indi ndiv viidu dua alllly y a and nd on t on th he e f fiin na anc nciia all s st ta at te em me ent nts s a as s a a w who holle e.. a are rea a o of i f in nh he ere ren nt t ri ris sk k.. T Th he e ri ris sk k i is s n no ot u t un niifo form rm fo for r a allll c cal alc cu ullat atiio on n o of f t th he y e ye ear ar e en nd d v va allu ues es as as w wel elll as as t tes est tiin ng g t th he g e go ov ver ern nan anc ce e iin nv five es stm tme en nt ty t typ pe es s a an nd d i is s g gre rea ate tes st fo t for th r the e fo follllo ow wiin ng g, c cont ontr rol ols s t th ha at t t th he e D Diir re ec ct tor ors s h ha av five e i in p n plla ac ce e t to m o moni onit tor or t th he es se e pr proc oce es ss se es s.. Ba Bas se ed d on on our our pr prof ofe es ss siiona onall j ju udg dge em me ent nt, w we e fide det te er rm miine ned m d ma at te er riia alliit ty y f for or t th he e f fiin na anc nciia all s st ta at te em me ent nts s a as s a a w who holle e a as s f fol olllow ows s:: w wh her ere t e th he i e in nv ves est tm men ent ts s ar are e h har ard d t to o v val alu ue b e bec ecau aus se e T The he t te es st tiin ng i g inc ncllud ude ed p d pe er rf for orm miin ng t g the he f fol olllow owiing ng pr proc oce edur dure es s:: quot quote ed pr d priic ce es s a ar re e n no ot t r re ead adiilly y av avai aillab ablle: e: W We e a agr gre ee ed d d da at ta a i in nput puts s t to o und unde er rlly yiing d ng doc ocum ume ent nta at tiio on.
n. C Co om mm mer erc ciial al m mo or rt tg gag age e llo oan ans s U UK K L Liif fe e.. We We e ev va allu ua at te ed d t the he m me et tho hodol dolo ogy gy a and nd a as ss sum umpt ptiio ons ns i in n pa par rt tiic cul ula ar r, y yiie elld d O Over veral alll G Gr ro ou up p m mat ater eriial aliit ty y 1 140 40 m mil illlio ion n 2 2015: 015: 1 114 m 14 miilllliion on.. Eq Equ uiit ty y r rel eleas ease an e and d U UK K s sec ecu ur riit tiis se ed d m mo or rt tg gag age l e lo oan ans s U UK K c cur urv five es s, di dis sc count ounte ed c d ca as sh f h fllow ows s, pr prope oper rt ty y gr grow owt th r h ra at te es s a and nd lliiq qui uidi dit ty y H Ho ow w w we d e det eter erm miin ned ed i it t 5 5% o % of o f op pe er ra ati tin ng g p pro rof fiit b t be efo fore re t ta ax x a attri ttrib bu uta tab blle e to to s sh ha are reh ho olld fide ers rs Li Lif fe e.. pr pre em miium um us use ed w d wiit thi hin t n th he e v va allua uat tiion m on mod ode ells.
s. p pro rofi fits ts a afte fter t r th he e d fide ed du uc cti tio on n o of i f in nte teg gra rat tiio on n a an nd d re res stru truc ctu tur riin ng g c co os sts ts.. S St tr ruc uct tur ure ed bo d bond nd- -t ty yp pe i e in nv ves est tm men ent ts s F Fr ran anc ce L e Liif fe e.. We We c com ompa par re ed d t th he e a as ss sum umpt ptiions ons us use ed a d aga gaiins nst t a appr ppro opr priia at te e Ra Rat tiiona onalle e f for or be benc nchm hma ar rk k a appl ppliie ed d IIn n d det eter erm miin niin ng g o ou ur r m mat ater eriial aliit ty y, w we c e co on ns siid der ered ed f fiin nan anc ciial al m me etri tric cs s C Col ollla at te er ra alliis se ed l d loa oan n ob oblliig ga at tiio ons ns a and no nd non n- -r re ec cou our rs se e l loa oans ns b ben enc ch hm mar arks ks an and d i in nv ves est tiig gat ated ed s siig gn niif fiic can ant t d diif ff fer eren enc ces es.. w whi hic ch w h we e b be elliie ev five ed t d to b o be e r re elle ev va ant nt, a an nd c d conc oncllude uded, d, c cons onsiis st te ent nt w wiit th h U UK L K Liif fe e.. We We t tes est ted ed t th he o e op per erat atiio on n o of f d dat ata i a in nt teg egr riit ty y an and d c ch han ang ge m e ma an nag age em men ent t lla as st y t ye ea ar, r, th tha at o t op pe era rat tiin ng g p pro rof fiit b t be efo fore re ta tax x a an nd d a afte fter t r th he e d fide ed du uc cti tio on n c cont ontr rol ols s f for or t the he m mo ode dells s.. o of i f in nt te eg gra rat tiio on n a an nd d re res str tru uc ctu turi rin ng g c co os sts ts w wa as s th the e m mo os st re t relle ev va an nt t We We u us se ed o d our ur v va allua uat tiion on e ex xpe per rt ts s t to pe o per rf for orm m i ind nde ep pe end nde ent nt v va allu ua ati tio on ns s, be benc nchm hma ar rk k.. O Op pe er ra at tiing pr ng prof ofiit t pr pre es se ent nts s a a llo onge nger r- -te term rm a as ss se essm ssme en nt t w wh her ere ap e app plliic cab ablle.
e. of of t the he pe per rf for orm ma anc nce e of of t th he e e en nt tiit ty y w whi hic ch i h is s m mor ore e i in l n liine ne w wiit th t h th he e ope oper ra at tiio ons ns a an nd t d tiim me e hor horiiz zo ons ns of of a an i n ins nsur ure er r w whe her re e ins insur ura anc nce e Ba Bas se ed d on t on the he w wor ork k p pe er rf for orm me ed d, w we e c cons onsiid fide er re ed d t the he a as ss sum umpt ptiio ons ns us use ed d c cont ontr ra ac ct ts s a an nd c d cus ust tom ome er r r re ella at tiion ons shi hips ps s spa pan ov n ove er r m mu ullt tiip plle e y ye ea ar rs s.. b by y m man anag agem emen ent t t to o b be ap e app pr ro op pr riiat ate.
e. W We e b be elliie ev five e t tha hat t iit t i is s a appr ppro opr priia at te e t to fide o deduc duct t i int nte egr gra at tiion a on and nd re res stru truc ctu turi rin ng g c co os sts ts a as s Av Aviiv va a iin nc cu ur a r a b ba as se e l le ev five ell o of r f re es stru truc ctu turi rin ng g c co os sts ts, e ev five en n o ou uts tsiid fide e ti tim me es s o of s f siig gn niifi fic ca an nt re t res stru truc ctu tur riin ng g.. W We e a agr gre ee ed w d wiit th h t the he A Audi udit t C Com omm miit tt te ee e t th ha at t w we e w wo oul uld r d re ep por ort t t to o t the hem m m miis ss st ta at te em me ent nts s iid fide ent ntiif fiie ed d dur duriin ng our g our a au udi dit t a abov bove e 5 m 5 miilllliion on 2015: 2015: 5 5 m mil illlio ion n as as w wel elll as as m miis ss st tat atem emen ent ts s b bel elo ow w t th hat at am amo ou un nt t t th hat at, i in n o ou ur r v viiew ew, w war arr ran ant ted ed r rep epo or rt tiin ng g f fo or r q qu ual aliit tat atiiv five r e re eas aso on ns s.. Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued 132 Going concern Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 103, in relation to going concern.
We Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: have nothing to report having performed our review.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the branches not visited by us: or financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the accounting records and returns.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were Directors remuneration signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the to continue as a going concern.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Other required reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements specified by law are not made.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Corporate governance statement the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors and corporate governance report for the financial year for which Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and provisions of the Code.
the Strategic Report and the Directors and corporate governance report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal We have nothing to report having performed our review.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group, the company and their environment obtained in the course Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Our responsibilities and those of the Directors and corporate governance report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 103, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Information in the Annual Report is: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save the course of performing our audit: or where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have no exceptions to report.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The statement given by the directors on page 103, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the assessment of: information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
applied and adequately disclosed: We have no exceptions to report.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The section of the Annual Report on page 97, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own We have no exceptions to report.
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a liquidity of the group reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: procedures or a combination of both.
The directors confirmation on page 103 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Directors and corporate governance report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
The directors explanation on page 103 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in Marcus Hine Senior Statutory Auditor operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing for and on behalf of  LLP attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
London 8 March 2017 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was a The maintenance and integrity of the Aviva plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 IFRS Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued 133 Going concern Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 103, in relation to going concern.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
