BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 117 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc only Opinions and conclusions arising Audit risk Procedures to address these audit risks fromour audit A significant proportion of the Groups included those listed below revenues and profits are derived from We critically assessed the adequacy of the 1.
Our opinion on the financial long-term contracts.
design and tested the effective operation statements is unmodified ofkey controls within the LCM framework We have audited the financial statements of These contracts include complex technical andsupporting contract-related balances, BAE Systems for the year ended 31 December andcommercial requirements and often including: 2016 set out on pages 122to186.
specify performance milestones to be achieved transactional controls that underpin the throughout the contract period, which can In our opinion: production of long-term contract-related lastmany years.
At each balance sheet date, the financial statements give a true and fair balances, including cost information on estimates and assumptions involving a high view of the state of the Groups and of the contracts, such as the purchase-to-pay degree of judgement and estimation parent companys affairs as at 31 December cycleand payroll controls: uncertainty are required in order to: 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year programme-level controls, such as periodic assess the proportion of revenues to then ended: peer reviews performed by experienced recognise in line with milestones achieved the Group financial statements have been individuals independent to the contract and contract completion: properly prepared in accordance with tochallenge assumptions made and forecast the outturn, and cumulative International Financial Reporting Standards judgements taken at pre-determined todate, profit margin on eachcontract, as adopted by the European Union: stagesof the contract lifecycle: and incorporating appropriate allowances for the parent company financial statements higher-level controls, such as monthly technical and commercial risks related to have been properly prepared in accordance contract review meetings and quarterly performance milestones yet to be achieved, with UK accounting standards, including business unit review meetings.
particularly in the case of fixed-price FRS101, Reduced Disclosure Framework: and contracts: and For significant contracts including those the financial statements have been prepared appropriately identify, value and provide listedin our audit risk description, determined in accordance with the requirements of the forloss-making contracts.
on the basis of the current and future Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the technical or commercial complexity, financial Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The directors have a detailed framework, significance and any forecast to be in IAS Regulation.
called Lifecycle Management LCM, in place significant loss-making positions, we also: to manage the commercial, technical and 2.
Our assessment of risks of material obtained an understanding of the financial aspects of long-term contracts.
misstatement performance and status of the contract TheLCM framework includes the regular In arriving at our audit opinion above on through discussion with contract project preparation of a Contract Status Report CSR, thefinancial statements, the risks of material teams, Group and business unit directors, which includes key financial and forecast misstatement that had the greatest effect aswell as through attendance at project information for the relevant contract.
onour audit, in decreasing order of audit teams contract review meetings: significance, were as follows: The risk of material misstatement is that challenged the Groups positions through theaccounting for the Groups significant the examination of externally available Recognition of revenues and profits contracts does not accurately reflect the evidence, such as customer correspondence onlong-term contracts progress made and status of the relevant and, in the case of one significant Refer to page 73 Audit Committee report and pages contract at the reporting date.
128to131 accounting policy and financial disclosures programme, met the customer directly The contracts requiring the highest degree tofurther corroborate the status of Revenue on long-term contracts: ofjudgement that occupied a significant contracts and recoverability of debtors: 11,659m 2015 11,139m proportion of the audit effort included: assessed the consistency of information Risk versus 2015: Astute Class submarines: presented in the year-end CSRs with the underlying ledgers, as well as other financial Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers: information received and knowledge gained Saudi British Defence Co-operation through the above procedures: and Programme: used our cumulative knowledge of contract Typhoon aircraft contracts European, issues to challenge the appropriateness Saudiand Omani : ofthe contract positions reflected in the JP 2008: and financial statements at the year end.
This US commercial shipbuilding contracts.
included testing that revenue was recognised in the correct period around the year-end date, the assessment of profit margin traded on contracts based on milestones achieved and allowances made for risks, as well as any central overlays to positions reported bysubsidiaries.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 118 Independent Auditors report continued In respect of the multi-employer allocations: The Groups annual goodwill impairment Net retirement benefit obligations We considered whether the methodology testing is based on the five-year Integrated Refer to page 73 Audit Committee report and pages used to allocate a proportion of the Groups Business Plan IBP forecasts.
We focus audit 155to163 accounting policy and financial disclosures retirement benefit obligations to the other effort and procedures on how the directors Groups share of net IAS 19 deficit: participating employers was appropriate.
exercised judgement in the preparation of the 6,054m 2015 4,501m Weexamined agreements between the IBP due to the inherent uncertainty involved Risk versus 2015: Groupand the other participating employers inforecasting cash flows and determining to assess the allocation.
discount rates, which are the basis of the Audit risk assessment of goodwill recoverability.
In respect of the disclosures: We considered The Groups share of the pension schemes the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in The Groups 2016 testing did not identify net deficit was 6,054m 2015 4,501m respect of the key assumptions, including anyimpairment charges 2015 75m afterallocating 516m 2015 1,053m to thesensitivity of the deficit to changes in impairment charge against the US equity accounted investments.
The determination of the pension scheme Given the uncertainty associated with liabilities is dependent on market conditions Valuation of goodwill thevaluation of the recoverable amounts, and the setting of key assumptions, such Refer to page 73 Audit Committee report and pages transparent disclosures and clarity of 139to141 accounting policy and financial disclosures asdiscount rate, inflation forecasts and sensitivities to key assumptions are critical lifeexpectancy.
Goodwill: 10,902m 2015 9,840m tohelp inform readers how the directors There is a considerable amount of judgement Risk versus 2015: havemade their assessment.
required in setting these assumptions and, Procedures to address these audit risks given the size of the schemes, small changes Audit risk included those listed below in assumptions and estimates used can have The Group holds a significant amount of In respect of the assessment of CGUs: asignificant impact on the Groups share of goodwill relating to UK and overseas Wechallenged the directors assessment the retirement benefit obligations.
principally US acquisitions from the past ofCGUswith reference to the requirements 15years.
The estimated recoverable amounts Further assumptions are made in the ofaccounting standards and considered the are subjective due to the inherent uncertainty determination of the Groups share of assets operating and management structure involved in forecasting and discounting future and liabilities of the multi-employer schemes changes, during the year, in our understanding cash flows and in estimating recoverable in which it participates, principally in relation of the business.
We also critically assessed amounts of fair value less costs to sell.
to changes in the methodology in allocation whether the allocation of goodwill to those ofthe share to MBDA.
As of 1 April 2016, The uncertainty over future US defence CGUs was done on a consistent and theBAE Systems Pension Scheme, the spending as a whole has reduced slightly in reasonable basis.
largestscheme for which BAE Systems is the last year, where we have seen the forecast In respect of cash flows: We considered the aparticipating employer, representing 54% increase in the defence bill.
However, the Groups procedures used to develop the ofthe total retirement benefit obligation as allocation of the budget between BAE Systems forecasts and the principles and integrity of the at31 December 2015, underwent a legal and competitors remains uncertain.
This places Groups discounted cash flow model compared separation which removed Airbus as a continued importance on the US business to to the requirements within IAS 36, Impairment participating employer.
Consequently, the secure export contracts.
Both of these factors of Assets.
To challenge the reasonableness of riskassociated with the allocation of the contribute to the risk that the goodwill those cash flows, we: assessed the historical multi-employer schemes hasreduced.
allocated to the Groups US Cash-Generating accuracy of the Groups forecasting, in Units CGUs will not be recoverable, although Procedures to address these audit risks particular the ability to reliably forecast cash we consider this risk to have reduced.
included those listed below flows in the fifth year of the model which In respect of the valuation of the obligations: Most of the remaining goodwill is allocated underpins the terminal value : and considered We assessed the independence and toCGUs based in the UK.
Whilst there is still the forecasts with reference to publicly competence of the Groups external actuaries.
inherent risk in forecasting future cash flows available information, such as projections With the assistance of our own actuarial for these businesses, many of them contain offuture defence expenditure.
specialists, we assessed the key assumptions sizeable order backlogs, much of which is with In respect of the discount rate: We compared used in the Groups retirement benefit government customers, giving some certainty the Groups assumptions to externally-derived obligations valuation, including the discount to support the forecasts.
We consider the data for example, bond yields and inflation rate, inflation and life expectancy assumptions valuation risks around those CGUs to be lower.
We conducted against externally-derived data.
In order to The Applied Intelligence CGU operates in our own assessments to challenge other key assess the reasonableness of these assumptions, ahighly competitive and more fragmented inputs, such as projected economic growth, we performed a benchmarking exercise market where significant investment is required gearing and CGU-specific factors that against comparator companies assumptions.
for growth and where future business pipeline contribute to forecasting risk.
Our own is much shorter than in most other business valuation specialists assisted us in assessing units in the Group.
As such, we consider the the overall discount rate used.
uncertainty in forecasting cash flows higher and the valuation of this CGU to have a higherrisk.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 119 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements In respect of CGU recoverable amounts: In In considering the judgements to recognise tax Procedures to address these audit risks one instance, we compared the recoverable accruals, our own international and local tax included those listed below amount of a CGU with transaction multiples specialists assisted us in assessing the Groups We assessed and challenged the directors available for similar companies.
tax positions and the likelihood of future ontheir judgement, in particular as to why cashoutflows.
This included the assessment itisdeemed probable that the deferred tax As an additional sense check to challenge the of its correspondence with the relevant tax assets recognised will be recovered, including recoverable value of goodwill as a whole, we authorities and government bodies, the the following considerations: compared the sum of discounted cash flows Groups external tax advisers and third parties.
the appropriateness and reliability of with the Groups market capitalisation.
We also used our knowledge and experience forecasts used by the directors to estimate In respect of sensitivity of the goodwill of the application of the international and the recovery period: valuation to the key assumptions: We have run local legislation by the relevant authorities the consistency of this judgement with other scenario-specific models including changes to andcourts in order to challenge the positions assumptions and estimates made bythe the discount rate and forecast cash flows as taken by the directors.
In support of these directors used to test impairment ofassets, well as break-even analyses to stress-test the discussions, we separately met with certain including goodwill: and valuations of CGUs recoverable amounts.
external tax advisers of the Group.
the timeframe of the pension deficit In respect of the disclosures: We assessed We analysed and challenged the assumptions recovery plan.
whether the Groups disclosures about the used to estimate the tax accruals and tested In particular, we considered the current sensitivities to changes in key assumptions the accuracy of calculations.
andrecent taxation position of the Groups reflected the risks inherent in the valuation We have also considered the adequacy of UKentities the largest element of the ofgoodwill as well as our knowledge of theGroups tax disclosures, including the pensiondeficit funding falls in the UK thebusiness.
requirements for disclosure of any andthetrading prospects of those entities .
represented in forecasts, secured orders Tax accruals andother secured programmes.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee report and pages 123 Deferred tax assets on UK retirement and 135 to137 accounting policy and financial disclosures 3.
Our application of materiality and benefit obligation Tax accruals: 365m 2015 353m anoverview of the scope of our audit Refer to page 74 Audit Committee report and pages 123 and 150 to152 accounting policy and financial disclosures The materiality for the Group financial Risk versus 2015: statements as a whole was set at 55m Deferred tax asset: 1,212m 2015 908m 201555m, determined with reference to Audit risk Risk versus 2015: New risk abenchmark of Group profit before taxation Accruals for tax contingencies require the from continuing operations normalised to directors to make judgements and estimates Audit risk remove the effects of goodwill impairments, inrelation to tax risks.
This is one of the key The directors are required to estimate the of whichitrepresents 4.8% 2015 4.7%.
judgement areas that our audit is concentrated value of deferred tax assets and to record on due to the Group operating in a number of We reported to the Audit Committee those assets to the extent their recovery is tax jurisdictions, the complexities of local and anycorrected or uncorrected identified probable.
This requires a significant element international tax legislation, and the number of misstatements exceeding 2.75m 2015 ofjudgement.
years which some matters can take to resolve.
2.75m and those relating wholly to The majority of the deferred tax asset balance balancesheet classification exceeding The tax matters are at various stages, from the is in relation to the Groups retirement benefit 13.75m 2015 32m in addition to other first identification of risks to discussions with obligations.
As a result of the increase in the identified misstatements that warranted tax authorities and through to tax tribunal or valuation of the Groups share of the net reporting on qualitative grounds.
The risk to the financial retirement benefit obligations, the Groups statements is that the eventual resolution of Eleven 2015 11 of the Groups 41 2015 41 related deferred tax asset has also increased.
amatter with tax authorities is at an amount reporting components were audited for Compared with last year, theperiod required materially different from the estimated accrual.
Groupreporting purposes and a further for the Group to recover the full amount of 14 2015 11 were subject to specified Procedures to address these audit risks deferred tax has consequently increased, and risk-focused procedures.
The latter were not included those listed below more judgement is required to estimate how individually financially significant enough to Together with our own UK and international much of this balance is recoverable.
For this require an audit for Group reporting purposes, tax specialists, we assessed all large or reason, we have determined that the audit but did present specific individual risks that unusualitems affecting the effective tax rate riskhas increased.
and challenged whether or not any current The risk to the financial statements is that the year items would indicate a requirement for amount of deferred tax assets recognised is further accruals.
materially different from the amount that will be recovered.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 120 Independent Auditors report continued The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages Under the Companies Act 2006, we are oftheGroups results: required to report to you if, in our opinion: Group Group adequate accounting records have not been Group profit before total kept by the parent company, or returns Number of revenue taxation assets components % % % adequate for our audit have not been received 1 from branches not visited by us: or Audits for Group reporting purposes 11 69 80 84 2 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 14 25 13 10 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Annual remuneration Total 25 94 93 94 report to be audited are not in agreement 2015 total 22 92 89 93 with the accounting records and returns: or 1.
In the UK, US, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration 2.
In the UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
specified by law are not made: or For the remaining components, we performed Based solely on the work required to be we have not received all the information analysis at an aggregated level to re-examine undertaken in the course of the audit of the andexplanations we require for our audit.
our assessment that there were no significant financial statements and from reading the Under the Listing Rules we are required risks of material misstatements within these.
Strategic report and the Directors report: toreview: we have not identified material The Group audit team instructed component the directors statements, set out on misstatements in those reports: and auditors as to the significant areas to be page71, in relation to going concern covered, including the relevant risks detailed in our opinion, those reports have been andlonger-term viability: and above and the information to be reported prepared in accordance with the the part of the Directors report section back.
The Group audit team approved the CompaniesAct 2006. relating to the Companys compliance with component materiality levels, which ranged 5.
We have nothing to report on the the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate from 4m to 37m 2015 3m to 33m, disclosures of principal risks Governance Code specified for our review.
having regard to the mix of size and risk Based on the knowledge we acquired during profileof theGroup across the components.
We have nothing to report in respect of the our audit, we have nothing material to add or The work on 20 of the 25 2015 20 of the above responsibilities.
draw attention to in relation to: 22 in-scope components was performed the directors risk management, internal bycomponent auditors and the remainder Scope and responsibilities control and viability assessment on page bytheGroup auditteam.
As explained more fully in the directors 71concerning the principal risks, their responsibilities statement set out on page The Group audit team hosted planning management and, based on that, the 116, the directors are responsible for the meetings in the spring and autumn attended directors assessment and expectations preparation of the financial statements and by the most significant component teams ofthe Group continuing in operation over forbeing satisfied that they give a true and from the UK, US and Saudi Arabia.
In addition, the five years to 2021: or fairview.
A description of the scope of an the Group audit team visited component the disclosures in the preparation section of audit of financial statements is provided on teams in the UK, US, Sweden, Saudi Arabia the financial statements concerning the use the Financial Reporting Councils website at and Australia to assess the audit risk and of the going concern basis of accounting.
This strategy, discuss and calibrate the results report is made solely to the Companys ofcontrols testing, and discuss preliminary 6.
We have nothing to report in respect members as a body and is subject to important findings of audit procedures.
Video and of the matters on which we are required explanations and disclaimers regarding our telephone conference meetings were also held to report by exception responsibilities, published on our website at with these component auditors and any others Under International Standards of Auditing www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, that were not physically visited.
At these visits UKand Ireland, we are required to report to which are incorporated into this report as if and meetings, the findings reported to the you if, based on the knowledge we acquired setout in full and should be read to provide Group audit team were discussed in more during our audit, we have identified other anunderstanding of the purpose of this detail, and any further work required by information in the Annual Report that report, the work we have undertaken and theGroup audit team was then performed containsa material inconsistency with either thebasis of our opinions.
that knowledge or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed Ian Starkey otherwise misleading.
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion: In particular, we are required to report to you if: For and on behalf of the part of the Annual remuneration we have identified material inconsistencies KPMG LLP reportrequired to be audited has been between the knowledge we acquired during Statutory Auditor properly prepared in accordance with our audit and the directors statement that theCompanies Act 2006: and they consider that the Annual Report and Chartered Accountants financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 15 Canada Square the information given in the Strategic balanced and understandable, and provides London, E14 5GL reportand the Directors report for the information necessary for shareholders to 22 February 2017 thefinancial year is consistent with assess the Groups position and performance, .
business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
