100 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 104 to 184.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 10m 20% of normalised Group profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage 99% of Group profit before tax Risks Contract accounting Goodwill impairment 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Our procedures included: Contract accounting Tests of detail: using a variety of quantitative and qualitative criteria 6.2 billion we selected a sample of contracts to assess and challenge the most 2015: 5.9 billion significant and complex contract estimates.
We obtained the detailed Refer to page 76 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page project review papers from the Group to support the estimates made 114 Principal accounting policies Note 2.5 Construction and challenged the judgements underlying those papers with senior and service contracts and pages 117-118 Judgements and operational, commercial and financial management: key sources of estimation uncertainty Note 2.27a Revenue Historical comparisons: evaluating the financial performance of and margin recognition.
contracts against budget and historical trends: Subjective estimate Site visits: completing site visits to certain higher risk or larger value For the majority of its contracts, the Group recognises contracts, physically inspecting the stage of completion of individual revenue and profit on the stage of completion based on the projects and identifying areas of complexity through observation and proportion of contract costs incurred for the work performed discussion with site personnel: to the balance sheet date, relative to the estimated total Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the Groups judgement costs of the contract at completion.
in respect of forecast contract out-turn, contingencies, settlements The recognition of revenue and profit therefore relies on and the recoverability of contract balances via agreement to thirdestimates in relation to the forecast total costs on each party certifications and confirmations and with reference to our own contract.
Cost contingencies may also be included in these assessments, historical outcomes and industry norms: estimates to take account of specific uncertain risks, or Customer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence with disputed claims against the Group, arising within each customers around variations and claims and considering whether this contract.
These contingencies are reviewed by the Group information is consistent with the estimates made by the Group: on a regular basis throughout the contract life and adjusted where appropriate.
Insurer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence and meeting minutes with insurers around recognised insurance claims and The revenue on contracts may also include variations and considering whether this information supports the position taken on claims.
Variations and claims are recognised on a contractthe contract: by-contract basis when the Groups negotiations have reached a stage such that it is probable that the customer Test of detail: inspecting selected contracts for key clauses: identifying will accept the claim and the amount can be measured relevant contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, design reliably.
In certain circumstances recoveries from insurers bonuses, liquidated damages and success fees and assessing whether are also included in forecasts where sufficient progress has these key clauses have been appropriately reflected in the amounts been made to meet accounting recognition requirements.
recognised in the financial statements: Therefore there is a high degree of risk and associated Our sector experience: assessing whether the amounts recognised in management judgement in estimating the amount of the financial statements resulting from the estimates and assumptions revenue and associated profit to be recognised by the Group made represent a balanced view of the risks and opportunities pertinent to up to the balance sheet date and changes to these estimates the contract cash positions: could give rise to material variances.
Our sector experience: considering whether provisions against contracts sufficiently reflect the level of risk by challenging the Groups judgement in this area with reference to our own assessments.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 101 The risk Our response Goodwill impairment Our procedures included: 937 million: Assessing methodology: considering the consistency and 2015: 844 million appropriateness of the allocation of businesses and related goodwill balances into CGUs: Refer to page 76 Audit and Risk Committee Report, pages Benchmarking assumptions: considering the underlying assumptions 115-116 Principal accounting policies Note 2.12 Intangible in determining the cash flows and growth assumptions applied with assets, Note 2.16 Impairment of assets and pages 130-131 reference to historical forecasting accuracy, current order book, and wider Note 14 Intangible assets goodwill.
macroenvironment conditions: Forecast-based valuation Our sector experience: challenging the assumptions used in the The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill.
The risk is calculation of the discount rates used by the Group, including comparisons that the goodwill allocated to cash-generating units CGU with external data sources and by involving our own valuation specialist to is not recoverable and should be impaired.
Due to the assist us in evaluating the valuation methodologies used by the Group, as inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting well as the discount rate assumptions applied: future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment Sensitivity analysis: performing our own sensitivity analysis, including of recoverability, this is one of the key judgement areas for a reasonably possible reduction in assumed growth rates and margins to ouraudit.
identify areas on which to focus our procedures: and The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups of goodwill using a value-in-use model which is based on disclosures including disclosure of sensitivity of the outcome of the the net present value of the forecast earnings of the cashimpairment assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately generating unit.
This is calculated using certain assumptions reflecting the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
around discount rates, growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
Given the relative size of the goodwill in the Group balance sheet, in particular with regard to the UK Regional and Engineering Services CGU, which remains loss making, relatively small changes in the above assumptions could give rise to material changes in the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected and of our audit uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million in The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was addition to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on set at 10.0 million, determined with reference to the benchmark qualitative grounds.
of Group profit before tax from continuing operations of 60 million Of the Groups 16 reporting components, 11 were subject to an normalised to take into account items that are considered one-off audit for Group reporting purposes, 2 to specified risk-focused or exceptional in the year as disclosed in Note 10, but not including audit procedures and 3 to reviews.
The components for which we an adjustment for the amortisation of acquired intangible assets of performed specified risk-focused procedures were not individually 9 million, of which it represents 20%.
financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting Due to the volatility in the Groups results in recent financial years, purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to as part of our materiality assessment we also considered the be addressed.
The specified audit procedures were performed scale of the business, the level of judgement and precision within over fixed assets 2 components and inventory 1 component.
the Groups key accounting judgements, as well as how the level of materiality compares to other relevant benchmarks such as revenue, of which it represents 0.1% and total assets, of which it Normalised represents 0.2%, where they provide more consistent measures Group profit before tax year-on-year than Group profit before tax.
from continuing operations Materiality 51m 10m 10m Whole financial statements materiality 9m Range of materiality at 16 components 3.15m9m 0.5m Normalised profit before tax Misstatements from continuing operations reported to the Audit and Risk Committee Group materiality balfourbeatty.
com AR2016 102 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued The components for which we performed a review of financial review of financial information on one of the components being information were not individually significant enough to require an performed by the Group audit team.
audit for Group reporting purposes but were included in the scope In 2016, the Group audit team visited nine components in the of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage United Kingdom, United States, United Arab Emirates and Hong over the Groups results.
Together, the audits cover 96% of Group Kong.
Telephone conference meetings were held with these revenue, 93% of Group profit before tax and 94% of Group total component auditors and the majority of the others that were assets.
Including the components subject to specified procedures not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings or review, coverage was 100% of Group revenue, 99% of Group reported to the Group audit team were discussed in detail.
profit before tax and 100% of Group total assets.
As part of the audit we performed procedures on the items excluded from 4.
O ur opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies normalised Group profit before tax.
Act 2006 is unmodified The Group operates one shared service centre in Newcastle, In our opinion: United Kingdom, the outputs of which are included in the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has information of the reporting components it services.
Therefore it been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is 2006: and subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the information given in the Strategic Report and the the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the Additional procedures are performed at each reporting component financial statements.
to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the shared service centre.
the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic The Group audit team instructed component auditors, and the Report and the Directors Report: auditors of the shared service centre, as to the significant areas we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the and information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 3.15 million in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and profile of the with the Companies Act 2006.
The work on 15 of the Groups 16 components was performed by the component auditors with the Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets % % % 1 4 6 6 96 93 94 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Specified risk-focused audit procedures and review of financial information 2016 Residual components Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 103 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal Scope and responsibilities risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a the Directors statement in relation to Balfour Beatty plcs true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial longer-term viability on pages 53 to 65, concerning the principal statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors website at www.
This report assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is operation over the three years to 31 December 2019: or subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our the disclosures in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 52 responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis which we are required to report by exception of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Stephen Wardell In particular, we are required to report to you if: Senior Statutory Auditor we have identified material inconsistencies between the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Chartered Accountants, 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 15 March 2017 and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 75 to 77 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 52 and 65, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 66 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
