Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial statements of BBA Aviation plc In our opinion: Independent the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Auditors Report the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European To the members of BBA Aviation plc Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Group and Parent Company Accounting Policies: the related Group notes 1 to 27: and the related Parent company notes 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Acquisition accounting: new risk identified this year Carrying value of inventory Revenue recognition Presentation of earnings Goodwill impairment Given the evolution of the related judgements during the year, we have removed taxation as a key risk in the current year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $10.0 million 2015: $8.5 million which was determined on the basis of approximately 4% 2015: 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Scoping Our audit scope for 2016 was increased to 13 operating locations 2015: 11 locations as a result of the acquisition of Landmark Aviation.
Senior members of the Group audit team continued to visit key locations where our Group audit scope was focused.
83 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting and the directors statement on the longerattention to in respect of these matters.
term viability of the group contained within the Directors Report on page 79.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events the directors confirmation on page 79 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a performance, solvency or liquidity: going concern.
the disclosures on pages 24-25 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 79 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 79 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and We confirm that we are independent of the group and confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on page 53.
In the current year we have removed the risk in relation to taxation given the evolution of the related judgements during the year.
Additionally, we have included a risk around the accounting for the acquisition of Landmark Aviation given the significance of the transaction to the current year position and performance.
Acquisition Accounting Risk description As set out in note 24, on 5 February 2016, the Group completed the acquisition of Landmark Aviation for consideration of $2,079.4 million, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition requires the use of significant management judgement regarding the fair valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Specifically, the identification and valuation of right to operate intangible asset of $1,160.4 million involves a number of assumptions including discount rate, average lease life and probability of lease renewal.
Further details of the assets and liabilities acquired are shown in note 24 of the Groups financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We have challenged the key assumptions used by the Group to determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
responded to the risk Specifically in relation to the valuation of the right to operate intangible asset, we have challenged the key inputs and data used in the valuation model by reference to historical data and our expectations based on available market data.
In performing our work in this area we used internal valuation specialists to assist in our assessment of the fair value of the noncurrent assets acquired, focussing on the valuation methodologies and key assumptions applied.
For the remaining assets and liabilities acquired, we have obtained appropriate evidence to support managements estimates.
We have evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 24 of the Annual Report.
Key Observation Based on our procedures, we noted that the methodologies and assumptions applied were reasonable and the fair value ascribed to the assets and liabilities consistent with evidence obtained.
84 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Carrying value of inventory Risk description As detailed within the significant financial reporting issues considered by the audit and risk committee on page 53, management judgement is required to establish that the carrying value of inventory across the Aftermarket Services businesses of $215.8 million 2015: $210.4 million is appropriate, in particular in relation to determining the appropriate level of inventory provisioning against surplus and obsolete items.
The judgement reflects the nature of the Groups Aftermarket Services operations which means that inventory must be held to support aircraft engine overhaul cycles, resulting in inventory which can be held for extended periods of time before utilisation.
How the scope of our audit Our audit procedures included testing of the inventory provisions held in the Aftermarket Services businesses by understanding responded to the risk and challenging the key assumptions used to determine the appropriate carrying value of inventories.
Specifically, we assessed whether: managements controls relating to the estimation of the inventory provisions are appropriately designed and implemented: the estimates of remaining lives and usage profiles of the engine and aircraft platforms are consistent with industry projections and supported by industry experts: and where the expected future usage of inventory is based on past experience, this has been reasonably estimated.
Furthermore, we carried out a recalculation of the expected provision based on the above key assumptions to assess the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.
Key Observation Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate and consistent with our understanding of the business.
Revenue Recognition Risk description Revenue recognised in the Global Engine Services businesses of $541.4 million 2015: $619.2 million, as stated within the accounting policies to the Groups financial statements on page 95, requires management judgement to estimate the stage of completion and profitability of contracts to determine the amount of revenue and profit to be recorded for engine overhauls in progress at the year-end.
How the scope of our audit We considered whether managements controls relating to the key percentage of completion estimates are properly designed responded to the risk and implemented.
We assessed the estimates applied within the percentage of completion calculation by verifying the engine overhaul costs incurred for work undertaken at the year end and challenging the estimated costs to completion.
In assessing the estimated costs to completion, we considered the historical accuracy of managements forecasts in previous years for the cost of engine overhauls and made enquiries of technical staff responsible for the engine overhaul process.
Key Observation Based on the results of each of the procedures as set out above, we considered the related financial statement amounts to be appropriate and in line with the groups accounting policies as set out on page 95.
Presentation of earnings Risk description Management presents earnings in a columnar format, separating out those items considered as exceptional from underlying earnings.
Total exceptional and other items contributed to a charge of $316.0 million 2015: charge of $61.2 million.
In addition, following the decision to dispose of the ASIG operations, management has presented the results of the business as a discontinued operation.
As detailed within note 2 to the Groups financial statements, management has defined exceptional and other items as items which are material or non-recurring in nature and also include costs relating to acquisitions and disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Management judgement is required in relation to the identification, measurement and disclosure of exceptional and other items to ensure clarity in the presentation of the Groups financial performance.
This is particularly significant in the current year given the increased number of one-off items arising through the Groups acquisition of Landmark Aviation and the decision to dispose of the ASIG operations.
Specifically in relation to ASIG, management judgement is required in determining the point at which the business became held for sale and the presentation of the business as a discontinued operation.
85 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report How the scope of our audit We have challenged the assumptions made to identify and measure those items classified as exceptional and other items.
responded to the risk To determine consistency with the Groups policy on exceptional items and for clarity in the presentation of the Groups financial performance, our audit work has included: obtaining supporting documentation, such as invoices, legal correspondence and severance contracts, for the measurement of such costs included within exceptional and other items: understanding and challenging managements rationale for the inclusion of such costs as exceptional and other items.
This has included assessing whether managements approach to identifying exceptional items is consistent with the prior year: assessing the adequacy of disclosure in relation to the exceptional and other items: understanding and challenging managements rationale for those items included in underlying profit which may be considered non-recurring in nature: and understanding and challenging managements rationale for disclosing ASIG as a discontinued operation.
We have also considered the use of alternative performance measures disclosed in the annual report given the recent guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
Key Observation Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the presentation of earnings is appropriate and consistent with the Groups policy in this area.
Goodwill Impairment Risk Description Goodwill of $1,113.9 million 2015: $889.6 million is reviewed annually for impairment using a value in use basis.
During 2016, a goodwill impairment charge of $138.8 million has been recognised relating to the Global Engine Services division following continued challenging trading conditions within the Engine Repair and Overhaul business.
Additionally, a goodwill impairment charge of $114.0 million has been recognised against the ASIG cash generating unit following the reclassification of the CGU as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our audit procedures included challenging the key assumptions used in managements impairment model, including the forecasted future cash flows, growth rates applied in the medium and long term and the risk adjusted discount rates.
In performing our audit procedures we used internal valuation specialists to assess the discount rate applied by benchmarking against independent data.
We reviewed historical financial performance of the business units compared with the original forecasts to evaluate the accuracy of managements budgeting process.
Furthermore, we benchmarked projected growth rates to external macro-economic and market outlook.
Specifically in relation to the ASIG cash generating unit, the impairment charge was audited with reference to the expected purchase price less costs to sell in accordance with the accounting standard.
In addition to the above, we have also reviewed the related presentation and disclosures surrounding the impairment of the relevant cash generating unit and its classification.
Key Observation Based on our work, we determined that the impairment charges recognised are consistent with the Groups assessment of the recoverable amounts of the relevant cash generating units with no deficiencies noted in the related disclosures in note 8 of the financial statements.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
86 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $10.0 million 2015: $8.5 million Basis for determining materiality Materiality was determined on the basis of approximately 4% 2015: 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Underlying profit before tax, which excludes exceptional and other items as defined in note 2 of the Group accounts, is utilised for the materiality determination because we consider underlying profit before tax to be a key driver of the business and eliminates potential volatility which may be caused by such exceptional items.
In determining the percentage level applied, we have also taken into consideration the increase in acquired intangible amortisation arising from the current year acquisition and which will remain a recurring feature of the consolidated income statement.
As such, a lower percentage to underlying profit before tax has been applied than in the previous year.
Finally, materiality equates to less than 0.2% 2015: 0.3% of total assets.
We have agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $500,000 2015: $170,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This threshold represents an increase from the previous year in order to align our reporting threshold with market practice.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment: We focused our Group audit scope on 13 operating locations 2015: 11 locations, an increase of 2 operating locations audited in the current year.
The increase arises from the acquisition of Landmark Aviation during the year.
Five of these locations 2015: six were subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2016 in accordance with statutory reporting requirements in the UK and Europe.
Three 2015: two were subject to specific audit procedures, focused on the significant audit risk areas.
The remaining five 2015: three operating locations were the Groups significant US businesses for which full scope audits were completed.
This included Landmark Aviation US, the most significant component of the newly acquired Landmark Aviation business.
These 13 2015: 11 locations represent the principal operating locations of the Group and account for 96% 2015: 96% of the Groups revenue and 93% 2015: 84% of the Groups total assets.
Audits of these locations are performed at materiality levels determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
Materiality for each location was set no higher than 60% of group materiality 2015: 65%.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused.
Visits were made to 10 of the 13 operating locations during the year 2015: 8 out of 11.
For all non-significant components we will include the component audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
87 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors We have nothing to report arising from remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in these matters.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the We have nothing to report arising from our review.
companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, We confirm that we have not identified any such information in the annual report is: inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 28 February 2017 88
