Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Adequacy of accounting records and Report on the parent company Other required reporting information and explanations received financial statements Consistency of other information Under the Companies Act 2006 we and compliance with applicable Our opinion are required to report to you if, in requirements In our opinion, Berendsen plcs our opinion: Companies Act 2006 reporting parent company financial statements In our opinion, based on the work a we have not received all the thenancial statements : undertaken in the course of the audit: information and explanations we a give a true and fair view of the state require for our audit: or a the information given in the Strategic of the parent companys affairs as at a adequate accounting records have Report and the Directors Report 31 December 2016: for the financial year for which the not been kept by the parent company, a have been properly prepared in or returns adequate for our audit have financial statements are prepared accordance with United Kingdom is consistent with the financial not been received from branches not Generally Accepted Accounting visited by us: or statements: and Practice: and a the Strategic Report and the a the financial statements and the part a have been prepared in accordance Directors Report have been prepared of the Directors Remuneration Report with the requirements of the in accordance with applicable to be audited are not in agreement Companies Act 2006. legal requirements.
with the accounting records and returns.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and What we have audited understanding of the parent company We have no exceptions to report arising The financial statements, included within from this responsibility.
and its environment obtained in the the Report and Accounts the Annual course of the audit, we are required to Report, comprise: Directors remuneration report if we have identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report a the parent company balance sheet as Directors remuneration report and the Directors Report.
We have at 31 December 2016: CompaniesAct 2006 opinion nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors a the parent company statement ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Remuneration Report to be audited has of changes in equity for the year been properly prepared in accordance then ended: Under International Standards on with the Companies Act 2006.
Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs a the accounting policies: and UK&Ireland we are required to report Other Companies Act 2006 reporting a the notes to the financial to you if, in our opinion, information in Under the Companies Act 2006 we statements, which include other the Annual Report is: are required to report to you if, in our explanatory information.
a materially inconsistent with the opinion, certain disclosures of directors The financial reporting framework that information in the audited financial remuneration specified by law are not has been applied in the preparation statements: or made.
We have no exceptions to report of the financial statements is United arising from this responsibility.
a apparently materially incorrect based Kingdom Accounting Standards, on, or materially inconsistent with, our comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure knowledge of the parent company Framework, and applicable law acquired in the course of performing United Kingdom Generally Accepted our audit: or Accounting Practice.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
182 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements What an audit of financial In addition, we read all the financial Responsibilities for the statementsinvolves and non-financial information in the financial statements and Annual Report to identify material theaudit We conducted our audit in accordance inconsistencies with the audited with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit Our responsibilities and those financial statements and to identify involves obtaining evidence about the ofthedirectors any information that is apparently amounts and disclosures in the financial materially incorrect based on, or As explained more fully in the Directors statements sufficient to give reasonable materially inconsistent with, the Responsibilities for the financial assurance that the financial statements knowledge acquired by us in the statements set out on page 115, the are free from material misstatement, course of performing the audit.
If we directors are responsible for the whether caused by fraud or error.
become aware of any apparent material preparation of the financial statements This includes an assessment of: misstatements or inconsistencies we and for being satisfied that they give a a whether the accounting policies consider the implications for our report.
are appropriate to the parent With respect to the Strategic Report, Our responsibility is to audit and express companys circumstances and Directors Report and Corporate an opinion on the financial statements in have been consistently applied Governance Statement, we consider accordance with applicable law and ISAs andadequately disclosed: whether those reports include the UK & Ireland.
Those standards require disclosures required by applicable a the reasonableness of significant us to comply with the Auditing Practices legal requirements.
accounting estimates made by the Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
directors: and Other matter This report, including the opinions, has a the overall presentation of the We have reported separately on been prepared for and only for the financial statements.
the group financial statements of parent companys members as a body Berendsen plc for the year ended in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 We primarily focus our work in these 31 December 2016. of the Companies Act 2006 and for no areas by assessing the directors other purpose.
We do not, in giving these judgements against available evidence, Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor opinions, accept or assume responsibility forming our own judgements, and for and on behalf of for any other purpose or to any other evaluating the disclosures in the  LLP person to whom this report is shown financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors or into whose hands it may come save London We test and examine information, using where expressly agreed by our prior sampling and other auditing techniques, 2 March 2017 consent in writing.
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or acombination of both.
