GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Bellway p. l. c. for the year ended 31 July 2016 set out on pages 76 to 105.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were asfollows: Profit recognition on current sites and the carrying amount of land held for development and work in progress gross profit 574.8 million: land held for development and work in progress 2,532.1 million.
Risk vs 2015: Refer to pages 50 to 51 Audit Committee Report, pages 82 and 85 Accounting Policies and note 13 on page 93 financial disclosures.
The risk Profit recognition on current sites and the net realisable value of land held for development and work in progress are both reliant on the Groups forecast of future selling prices and build costs, both of which are uncertain.
Forecast selling prices are inherently uncertain due to challenges in assessing market conditions.
Build costs, and in particular sub-contractor costs, can vary with market conditions and may also be incorrectly forecast due to unforeseen events during construction.
Gross profit is recognised on house sales based on the latest whole site gross margin which is an output of the site valuations prepared by the Groups divisional technical teams.
These valuations use actual and forecast selling prices and build costs and are sensitive to inaccuracies in recording actual costs incurred, forecast costs to complete and expected selling prices.
Land held for development and work in progress are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the net realisable value of land held for development and work in progress is carried out at each balance sheet date and is dependent on the Groups estimates of future selling prices and build costs, together with the likelihood of receiving planning permission for land held for development.
Planning permission is dependent on local and national policies and without planning permission sites cannot be developed.
A change in the Groups estimate of sales price and build cost could have a material impact on the carrying value of land held for development and work in progress and the level of profit recognition in the Groups financial statements.
Our response our audit procedures included: Inspecting a sample of land additions to evaluate the terms of the transaction and checking to the amounts recorded in the financial statements, including re-performing the calculation of fair value for a sample of land acquired on deferred payment terms.
Assessing a sample of land not currently being developed to confirm that the Group still intended to develop this site by reference to confirmed planning permission Testing the Groups controls over the authorisation and recording of costs, including agreeing a sample of costs incurred to date from job cost reports to invoice and or payment, including verifying that they relate to the site against which they have been allocated.
Testing the performance of the Groups controls over the production of site valuations, including the reconciliation of actual costs incurred and included in work in progress to date to job costs reports.
Attendance at a selection of site valuation meetings, where incurred costs and revenues were reviewed against budgets and estimates of future cost and selling prices were discussed, challenged and updated, to check that senior operational, commercial and financial management were effectively challenging the forecast margins utilised to recognise profit.
We used a variety of quantitative and qualitative factors to select those sites with a higher risk of material misstatement and conducted detailed site reviews for these sites to understand the associated risks and ascertain whether these risks had been factored into the site valuations.
The site reviews included the following procedures, among others, where relevant, i making inquiries of senior operational, commercial and financial management about their assessment of risks for these sites: ii reviewing site plans to gain an understanding of progress made and problems arising on the site: iii comparing actual and budgeted unit sales and average selling prices to date to identify potential build or sale issues: and iv for a sample of costs, agreeing total estimated costs to purchase orders sub-contractor agreements including variations from initial estimates.
For all active sites and sites completed in the year we performed a comparison of budgeted and latest forecast margin at July 2016 in order to assess the Groups ability to forecast accurately.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 73 GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. only continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued On a site by site basis, we compared the gross margin recognised in the financial statements with the latest site valuations to determine whether the margin recognised was appropriate.
We developed an expectation, based on our attendance at site valuation meetings, our detailed site reviews and other procedures, including inquiries and reviews of divisional board reports, of sites to be included in the Groups net realisable value provision.
We obtained the Groups net realisable value provision and compared land held for development and work in progress sites included to our expectations and, with reference to site valuations, determined whether amounts included had been calculated appropriately for these sites.
For a sample of developments completed in the year, we compared the cost to complete accrual created to the latest site valuation and obtained confirmation for significant differences.
Challenging the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to areas of judgement and estimation in relation to these balances by performing sensitivity analysis on key assumptions.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 23 million determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax adjusted for the removal of exceptional items, of which it represents 4.8%.
In the prior year materiality was set at 21 million, also determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax, of which it represented 5.9%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the Groups principal components which covered 100% of total Group revenue, 99% of total Group profit before taxation and 99% of total Group assets.
The audit undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the Groups main trading subsidiary was performed to a materiality level of 17 million, as set by the Group audit team.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 50 to 52 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures 'the specified Corporate Governance information' is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Statement: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report, the Directors Report, or the specified Corporate Governance information: in our opinion, the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in accordance with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors Long-Term Viability Statement on page 25, concerning the principal risks, their management and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in the 'Accounting Policies' section of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
74 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GOVERNANCE 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committees Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 to 68 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose ofthis report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House, 110 Quayside, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3DX 17 October 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Bellway p. l. c. 75
