Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc Our audit approach Exceptional items.
Report on the group Context nancialstatements a Exceptional costs incurred during the Berendsen plc is listed on the London year are an area of focus due to the Our opinion Stock Exchange.
The Group provides quantum and nature of the items and In our opinion, Berendsen plcs services across Europe and the structure the presentation and disclosure of of our audit continues to reect this, group financial statements these on the face of the Consolidated thenancial statements : with a considerable amount of time Income Statement.
spent directing, communicating with a give a true and fair view of the state of Contingent liabilities.
and visiting component audit teams.
the groups affairs as at 31 December The implementation of the new strategy a The appropriateness of provisions 2016 and of its profit and cash ows during the year has resulted in a number recognised and the contingent for the year then ended: of costs classied as exceptional.
liabilities disclosed in relation to the a have been properly prepared in Therefore this has been added on as an regulatory investigations and historical area of audit focus this year.
The business accordance with International environmental liabilities was an area of Financial Reporting Standards involves a very large number of relatively focus due to the judgements involved.
low value items, and the accounting for IFRSs as adopted by the Goodwill impairment assessment.
EuropeanUnion: and these in xed assets remains an area of focus.
We continue to focus our audit a The carrying value of goodwill is a have been prepared in accordance work on the carrying value of goodwill deemed to be an area of focus due to with the requirements of the and the value of or requirements for the judgements involved in estimating Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of provisions in respect of environmental future cash ows and applying the IAS Regulation.
and regulatory liabilities due to the appropriate assumptions.
judgemental nature of these areas.
What we have audited Misstatement in textile xed Overview asset valuation.
The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts the Annual a The valuation of textile xed assets is Overall group materiality: 6.0 million Report, comprise: deemed to be an area of focus due 2015: 5.9 million which represents to the size of the asset on the balance 5% of profit before tax.
a the consolidated balance sheet as at sheet and the difficulty in tracking 31 December 2016: We performed an audit of the individual items and verifying their complete financial information of a the consolidated income statement useful economic lives.
eight operating reporting units and and consolidated statement of the parent company which accounted comprehensive income for the year The scope of our audit and our areas of focus for 87% 2015: 86% of group then ended We conducted our audit in accordance revenues and 88% 2015: 85% of a the consolidated cash ow statement with International Standards on Auditing group profit before tax.
for the year then ended: UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining a the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial then ended: Materiality statements.
In particular, we looked at a the accounting policies: and where the directors made subjective a the notes to the financial judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates statements, which include other explanatory information.
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that Certain required disclosures have been are inherently uncertain.
As in all of presented elsewhere in the Annual our audits we also addressed the risk Audit scope Report, rather than in the notes to the of management override of controls, financial statements.
These are crossincluding evaluating whether there referenced from the financial statements was evidence of bias by the directors and are identied as audited.
that represented a risk of material The financial reporting framework that misstatement due to fraud.
has been applied in the preparation The risks of material misstatement of the financial statements is IFRSs as that had the greatest effect on our adopted by the European Union, and Areas audit, including the allocation of our of focus applicable law.
resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
116 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Exceptional items We have obtained a full listing of all the exceptional costs incurred Following the announcement of the new strategy in November 2015, the Group disclosed that it expected during the year across the Group and gained an understanding of what each project relates to through a review of Board meeting to incur significant one off costs in implementing the new strategy over the next 24 months from that date.
minutes, attendance at Audit Committee meetings, discussions withmanagement and a review of third party support.
Management have classied these costs as exceptional due to their quantum and one-off nature 12.9million Third party support has been examined by the Group and in2016.
component audit teams in order to assess the nature of the There is a risk that costs are classied as exceptional costsincurred.
when they are in fact incurred in the normal course of We consider the items classied as exceptional to be appropriate business, in order to improve the appearance of the given these costs are one-off and material to thebusiness.
We have therefore focused our audit procedures relating to the presentation and disclosure of the exceptional items in the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities Regulatory investigations Regulatory investigations The Competition and Markets Authority CMA have Our audit work in this area focused on gaining an understanding alleged that Berendsens UK Cleanroom business of the latest status of the investigation, including a review of has participated in market sharing through a joint the correspondence with the CMA.
We performed testing over venture which was purchased along with the Newbury managements assumptions and estimates in assessing the level acquisition in 2014.
In addition, we held meetings with the groups external provision in relation to estimated future costs.
The legal advisors to assess the likelihood and the quantum of any likelihood of a liability crystallising as a result of the potential penalties involved.
Based on the evidence obtained, investigation requires judgement in order to assess weconsider the level of provision to be appropriate.
whether a provision should be recognised and, if so, Environmental liabilities and warranties theamount of the provision required to cover any In Sweden we checked that the situation remains unchanged from futureobligation.
the prior year, including conrming this with the groups external Environmental liabilities and warranties environmental advisors, and determined that the accounting for any potential environmental remediation as a contingent liability remains The Group operates from laundries across Europe, at which historic environmental liabilities may exist.
We read and were satisfied with the level of disclosure in note 30 to the financial statements.
Though the Group has indemnities from third parties and expects to have the warranties confirmed in full, it We examined the groups latest assessment of the status of the legal is currently defending a legal claim in respect of certain claims and obtained conrmation from their external legal advisors sitesacquired.
of the likelihood of the group successfully defending its position.
Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of these liabilities crystallising, in order to assess whether a provision should be recognised and, if so, the amount of that provision.
The total potential liability is uncertain and would be affected by improvements in environmental clean-up technology and the future use of the sites.
In Sweden, no amounts have been provided in the balance sheet with respect to any future environmental liability as there are significant uncertainties and the value and timing of any cost to Berendsen is still unable to be determined.
As such, a contingent liability continues to be disclosed within the financial statements of the group.
Refer also to notes 18 and 30 to the financial statements, page 83 Audit Committee report and page 135 critical accounting estimates.
117 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill We evaluated the directors future cash ow forecasts, and the balance 407.3million as at 31 December 2016 and process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them because the directors assessment of the value in use to the latest Board approved budgets and testing the underlying of the Groups cash generating units CGUs involves calculations.
We found that management had followed a clear judgement about the future results of the business and process for drawing up the future cash ow forecasts, which were the discount rates applied to future cash ow forecasts.
subject to timely oversight and challenge by the directors and which were consistent with the Board approved budgets.
We found no Our audit work focused on how goodwill was recognised material misstatements in the calculations performed.
and the basis on which it was allocated across the CGUs under the new business lines following the restructuring We challenged the directors key assumptions for long term growth during the current year.
rates in the cash ows by comparing them to historical results and economic forecasts.
We compared the current year actual results Refer also to note 8 to the financial statements, to the 2016 gures included in the prior year forecasts to consider page83 Audit Committee Report and page 135 whether any forecasts included assumptions that, with hindsight, criticalaccounting estimates.
We compared future cash ow forecasts under the old and new business line structure and compared these to prior year and tested the underlying calculations.
We have confirmed that no impairment would have been required had the business continued to operate under the old CGUs or operating segments.
For the discount rate we assessed the cost of capital for the company and comparable organisations by performing a benchmark analysis and found it to be in line with our expectations.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash ow forecasts, being: a the growth rates: a the operating profit applied for the first three years: and a the discount rate.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired for all CGUs, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We did not identify any issues with managements key assumptions based on our review of supporting evidence, managements and our own sensitivity analysis performed.
There was significant headroom calculated by management over the carrying value of the CGUs, and therefore we were satisfied that the goodwill is not impaired.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 8 to the financial statements.
Misstatement in textile xed asset valuation Linen and workwear textiles are sold by the UK and In each of the eight operating units where an audit of the complete Sweden Sourcing businesses to the operating units financial information was performed, we carried out: within the Group as textile xed assets and depreciated a a comparison between asset classes of the carrying value and over their useful economic lives.
depreciation charge for the year as a percentage of the revenue Other than in certain businesses which have introduced they generate: the individual tagging of garments in order to trace a a substantive analytical review of the depreciation charge by asset their day-to-day use, textile assets are homogeneously class ensuring depreciation is in line with group policy : and depreciated by textile category over their estimated useful economic lives currently between 20% and a a comparison of additions in the year to additions in the prior year, 50% per annum as stated in the accounting policies on within each asset class to check they were reasonably consistent.
Within the additions testing, we also tested that linen asset additions These textiles are significant assets on the balance sheet were allocated to the correct linen asset class and depreciated in line 259.6 million as at 31 December 2016. with other assets of a similar nature and in line with their useful life expectancy.
Therefore, an over or understatement of the useful economic lives could lead to a material misstatement of Additionally, at group level, we performed a reasonableness test by depreciation for the year, affecting both the charge to the comparing additions between 2013 and 2016 to depreciation over income statement and the valuation of the assets on the the period to understand whether the assets are being replaced over balance sheet.
We found that capital expenditure on textile assets was materially in line with depreciation where there had been no major change in the scale and nature of the business.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed in relation to the economic lives and depreciation of the relevant assets.
118 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope Materiality Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to The scope of our audit was inuenced Under the Listing Rules we are required ensure that we performed enough work by our application of materiality.
We to review the directors statement, set to be able to give an opinion on the set certain quantitative thresholds out on page 114, in relation to going financial statements as a whole, taking for materiality.
We have nothing to report into account the geographic structure of qualitative considerations, helped us to having performed our review.
the group, the accounting processes and determine the scope of our audit and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are controls, and the industry in which the the nature, timing and extent of our audit required to report to you if we have group operates.
procedures on the individual financial anything material to add or to draw statement line items and disclosures and The Groups accounting process is attention to in relation to the directors in evaluating the effect of misstatements, structured around a local finance statement about whether they both individually and on the financial function in each of the 28 operating considered it appropriate to adopt the statements as a whole.
reporting units under which the Group going concern basis in preparing the operates.
These functions maintain their Based on our professional judgement, financial statements.
We have nothing own accounting records and controls we determined materiality for the material to add or to draw attention to.
and report to the head office function financial statements as a whole as As noted in the directors statement, team in London through an integrated follows: the directors have concluded that consolidation system.
a Overall group materiality it is appropriate to adopt the going In our view, due to their signicance and 6.0 million 2015: 5.9 million : concern basis in preparing the financial or risk characteristics, eight of these statements.
The going concern basis a How we determined it units required an audit of their complete presumes that the group has adequate 5% of profit before tax financial information and we used resources to remain in operation, and component auditors from PwC network a Rationale for benchmark applied that the directors intend it to do so, rms who are familiar with the local laws profit before tax is a generally for at least one year from the date the and regulations in each of the territories accepted auditing benchmark financial statements were signed.
As to perform this audit work.
in the absence of indicators that part of our audit we have concluded that an alternative benchmark would the directors use of the going concern In addition, specic audit procedures be appropriate.
However, because were performed at the Sweden Sourcing not all future events or conditions can reporting unit to address the risk We agreed with the Audit Committee be predicted, these statements are not identied in the existence and valuation that we would report to them a guarantee as to the groups ability to of inventory area of focus.
misstatements identied during our continue as a going concern.
audit above 300,000 2015: 300,000 Where the work was performed by as well as misstatements below that component auditors, we determined the amount that, in our view, warranted level of involvement we needed to have reporting for qualitative reasons.
in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the group engagement leader visited the Denmark, Germany, Sweden and United Kingdom operating locations.
In addition, the group engagement team visited the Netherlands operating location.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items are audited by the group engagement team at the head office.
These include goodwill impairment, derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, the Berendsen plc dened benefit pension scheme, share based payments and taxation.
119 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting a the directors explanation on page 56 Consistency of other of the Annual Report, in accordance Under ISAs UK & Ireland we information and compliance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to are required to report to you if, in with applicable requirements how they have assessed the prospects our opinion: of the group, over what period they Companies Act 2006 reporting a information in the Annual Report is: have done so and why they consider In our opinion, based on the work materially inconsistent with the that period to be appropriate, and undertaken in the course of the audit: information in the audited financial their statement as to whether they statements: or a the information given in the Strategic have a reasonable expectation that apparently materially incorrect Report and the Directors Report the group will be able to continue based on, or materially inconsistent for the financial year for which the in operation and meet its liabilities with, our knowledge of the group financial statements are prepared as they fall due over the period of acquired in the course of performing is consistent with the financial their assessment, including any our audit: or statements: and related disclosures drawing attention o therwise misleading to any necessary qualications a the Strategic Report and the or assumptions.
a the statement given by the directors Directors Report have been prepared on page 82, in accordance with in accordance with applicable We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate legal requirements.
Governance Code the Code, that In addition, in light of the knowledge Under the Listing Rules we are required they consider the Annual Report and understanding of the group and to review the directors statement taken as a whole to be fair, balanced its environment obtained in the course that they have carried out a robust and understandable and provides the of the audit, we are required to report assessment of the principal risks information necessary for members if we have identied any material facing the group and the directors to assess the groups position and misstatements in the Strategic Report statement in relation to the longer-term performance, business model and and the Directors Report.
We have viability of the group.
Our review was strategy is materially inconsistent with nothing to report in this respect.
substantially less in scope than an audit our knowledge of the group acquired and only consisted of making inquiries in the course of performing our audit.
In our opinion, based on the work and considering the directors process undertaken in the course of the audit: a the section of the Annual Report on supporting their statements: checking page 80, as required by provision a the information given in the that the statements are in alignment with C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the Governance section set out on pages the relevant provisions of the Code: and work of the Audit Committee 62 to 87 with respect to internal considering whether the statements are does not appropriately address control and risk management systems consistent with the knowledge acquired matters communicated by us to the and about share capital structures by us in the course of performing our Audit Committee.
is consistent with the financial audit.
We have nothing to report having statements and has been prepared performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and Adequacy of information and The directors assessment of the explanations received prospects of the group and of the a the information given in the principal risks that would threaten the Governance section set out on Under the Companies Act 2006 we solvency or liquidity of the group pages 62 to 87 with respect to the are required to report to you if, in our companys corporate governance opinion, we have not received all the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are code and practices and about information and explanations we require required to report to you if we have its administrative, management for our audit.
We have no exceptions to anything material to add or to draw and supervisory bodies complies report arising from this responsibility.
attention to in relation to: with rules 7.2.
7 a the directors conrmation on page 56 of the Disclosure Guidance and Directors remuneration of the Annual Report, in accordance Transparency Rules sourcebook of Under the Companies Act 2006 we with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, theFinancial Conduct Authority.
are required to report to you if, in our that they have carried out a robust opinion, certain disclosures of directors In addition, in light of the knowledge assessment of the principal risks remuneration specified by law are not and understanding of the group and facing the group, including those made.
We have no exceptions to report its environment obtained in the course that would threaten its business arising from this responsibility.
of the audit, we are required to report model, future performance, solvency if we have identied any material or liquidity.
Corporate governance statement misstatements in the information a the disclosures in the Annual Report referred to above in the Corporate Under the Companies Act 2006 we that describe those risks and explain Governance Statement.
We have are required to report to you if, in how they are being managed nothing to report in this respect.
our opinion, a corporate governance or mitigated.
statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
120 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements We primarily focus our work in these Other matter Responsibilities for the areas by assessing the directors We have reported separately on financial statements and judgements against available evidence, the parent company financial theaudit forming our own judgements, and statements of Berendsen plc for the evaluating the disclosures in the Our responsibilities and those year ended 31 December 2016 and financial statements.
ofthedirectors on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described As explained more fully in the Directors We test and examine information, using as having been audited.
Responsibilities for the financial sampling and other auditing techniques, statements set out on page 115, the to the extent we consider necessary to Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor directors are responsible for the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw for and on behalf of  LLP preparation of the financial statements conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and for being satisfied that they give a through testing the effectiveness of London true and fair view.
controls, substantive procedures or a 2 March 2017 combination of both.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in In addition, we read all the financial Notes: accordance with applicable law and ISAs and non-financial information in the a The maintenance and integrity of the UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Annual Report to identify material Berendsen plc website is the responsibility us to comply with the Auditing Practices inconsistencies with the audited of the directors: the work carried out by Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
financial statements and to identify the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the any information that is apparently This report, including the opinions, has auditors accept no responsibility for any materially incorrect based on, or been prepared for and only for the changes that may have occurred to the materially inconsistent with, the financial statements since they were initially parent companys members as a body knowledge acquired by us in the presented on the website.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 course of performing the audit.
If we of the Companies Act 2006 and for no b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing become aware of any apparent material the preparation and dissemination of other purpose.
We do not, in giving these misstatements or inconsistencies we financial statements may differ from opinions, accept or assume responsibility consider the implications for our report.
for any other purpose or to any other With respect to the Strategic Report, person to whom this report is shown Directors Report and Corporate or into whose hands it may come save Governance Statement, we consider where expressly agreed by our prior whether those reports include the consent in writing.
disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
What an audit of financial statementsinvolves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and a the overall presentation of the financial statements.
