INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BGEO GROUP PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: BGEO Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED BGEO Group plcs financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 comprise: Group Company financial statements the consolidated statement of financial position the separate statement of financial position the consolidated income statement the separate statement of changes in equity the consolidated statement of comprehensive income the separate statement of cash flows the consolidated statement of changes in equity the related Notes 1 to 34 to the Company financial statements the consolidated statement of cash flows the related Notes 1 to 34 to the consolidated financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement having Monitoring of credit quality and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses.
greatest impact on audit scope Risk of fraud in recognition of healthcare revenue and pharmaceutical revenue.
Valuation of land and office buildings, hospitals and clinics and investment properties.
Accounting for one-off and complex transactions including business combinations.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further three components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 95% of Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 91% of Revenue and 95% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of GEL 20 million which represents 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted for non-recurring items.
118 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee MONITORING OF CREDIT QUALITY We performed a walkthrough of the loan loss allowance Although the loan loss AND APPROPRIATENESS OF process and assessed the design and operating allowance is by nature ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES effectiveness of key controls.
highly judgmental, based We tested key controls over the collective loan loss on the results of our audit LOAN LOSS ALLOWANCE GEL 252.8 provision, which included controls over the identification procedures, we concluded million, 2015: GEL 198.9 million of loans to be included in the collective assessment and that the loan loss allowance managements review of key assumptions.
is within a reasonable range JSC Bank of Georgia is the largest credit institution in Georgia.
The allowance for loan We tested key controls over specific loan loss provisions, as at 31 December 2016. which addressed aspects such as the classification of losses is highly judgmental and changes borrowers into their respective risk grades, calculation We consider that the in assumptions could have a material impact of days past due and the recalculation of the loan loss allowance in respect of the on reported profits.
allowance, including the valuation of collateral.
loan to the Groups largest The allowance for loan losses is calculated For specific loan loss provisions, we assessed the borrower is based on recoverability of loan exposures on a sample basis and assumptions in respect of the using a combination of a collective ensured the appropriateness of the provision as at the underlying business of the provisioning model and specific loan balance sheet date, including reviewing the Groups borrower that are reasonable.
provisions based on discounted cash flow documented credit assessment of the borrowers, analyses.
Both collective and specific provisions depend on a number of challenging assumptions relating to future cash flow projections and the valuation of collateral held.
assumptions and judgments, the most For the collective loan loss provision, we critically important of which are managements assessed the appropriateness of the collective provisioning assessment of credit risk, estimates of future methodology as well as the assumptions and data inputs cashflows and valuations of collateral.
into the model with reference to our understanding of the business, relevant accounting standards and market As a consequence of the judgment involved practices, recalculated the collective loan loss provision in establishing the allowance, there is a and analysed the sensitivity of provisions to changes greater risk of misstatement in this balance, in key model inputs.
either by fraud or error, including through the potential override of controls by management.
We reviewed a sample of restructured loans and reviewed the Groups documented assessment to provide assurance that any loans that have been subject to forbearance have As described in the principal risks and been appropriately classified and reported.
uncertainties on page 36, the risk has During the year the Groups largest borrower experienced increased in the current year as a result of the depreciation of the Lari.
financial difficulties and its business was restructured.
Managements assessment of the loan loss allowance is Refer to the Audit Committee Report based on projected cashflows of the restructured business.
page 91 : accounting policies page 150 : and Note 10 of the Consolidated We considered whether key assumptions underlying these Financial Statements.
projections were consistent with our knowledge of the business and independent projections of expected prices for the businesss key products.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 119 Additional Financial Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee RISK OF FRAUD IN RECOGNITION We gained an understanding of the healthcare and Based on the results of our audit OF HEALTHCARE REVENUE AND pharmaceutical revenue processes and assessed the procedures, we concluded that PHARMACEUTICAL REVENUE design and operating effectiveness of key controls.
healthcare and pharmaceutical We performed substantive testing of healthcare and revenue for the year ended REVENUE GEL 363 million pharmaceutical revenue including key items testing, 31 December 2016 has been 2015: GEL 184 million representative sampling, testing manual and topside recognised in accordance with adjustments and cut-off testing by selecting a sample IFRSs.
In particular, exchange GHG is one of the largest healthcare of transactions either side of year-end.
transactions and customer providers and pharmacy distributors in We performed procedures on contractual documentation loyalty schemes have been Georgia.
Following the IPO of GHG in 2015, for the sampled transactions to determine whether revenue accounted for in accordance there is a heightened risk that GHG management may be under pressure to had been recognised in accordance with the Groups with IAS18 Revenue and accounting policies and IFRSs, particularly in respect of IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty report strong financial performance in order pharmaceutical exchange transactions and the issuing and Programmes, respectively.
to meet the expectations of internal and redemption of points under customer loyalty programmes.
As a consequence, We performed analytical procedures for healthcare and there is a greater risk of misstatement in these balances, either by fraud or error, pharmaceutical revenue at legal entity level to consider unusual trends that could indicate material misstatements, including through the potential override of including monthly fluctuations analysis and analysis of controls by management.
changes in key drivers of healthcare revenue, such as bed occupancy, number of patients and number of beds.
The risk has increased in the current year as a result of the acquisition of GPC, We performed journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of misstatement arising from management which exposed the Group to new streams override of controls.
of revenue, including retail sales of We considered whether the presentation and disclosure pharmaceutical products, a customer loyalty of revenue in the financial statements is in accordance with programme and exchange transactions with other pharmaceutical companies.
is required to be exercised by management in determining amounts recorded as revenue in respect of loyalty schemes and exchange transactions.
Refer to the Accounting policies page 156 : and Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
120 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee VALUATION OF LAND AND OFFICE We engaged our Real Estate specialists to evaluate the Based on the results of BUILDINGS, HOSPITALS AND CLINICS appropriateness of the Groups valuations of office buildings our audit procedures, AND INVESTMENT PROPERTIES and service centres, investment properties and hospitals and we concluded that the clinics, including the following: independent valuation reports GEL 1,029 million, 2015: GEL 475 million obtained by management The Group applies the revaluation model We evaluated the competence, professional qualifications supported their assessment and objectivity of the external valuers engaged by the Group: that there were no material for the measurement of its office buildings Through reading the valuation reports and discussion with differences between the and service centres including related land management and the valuers, we obtained an carrying value and fair value and the fair value model for investment understanding of the objectives and scope of the valuers of the Groups properties at properties.
During the year, the Group extended the revaluation model to the work, the methods and assumptions that they had used the balance sheet date.
and the conclusions that they had reached: hospitals and clinics in GHG.
We challenged the methods and assumptions used in the For the hospitals and clinics valuation reports, including consideration as to whether revalued as at July 2016, we Valuations of office buildings and service there was contrary market intelligence that had not been concluded that the valuation centres are performed once in every three years, unless there is a sign of material taken into account in the valuers analyses: and of the total pool of assets was For the hospitals and clinics and 5 properties for which within a reasonable range of change in fair values in the market: the specific valuations were performed, we assessed the data, market values.
last such valuation was performed at application of the methods and logic and reasoning applied 31 December 2015. by the valuers.
To the extent possible we compared this The GHG hospitals and clinics were revalued information to norms and benchmarks in the Georgian market, although we noted that there is limited availability as at July 2016. of transaction information against which to make such comparisons.
To assess whether there had been a material change in fair values in the market, management appointed an independent We ensured the appropriate recognition of the results of the valuations in accordance with IAS 16 Property, valuer to assess the fair value of the top five Plant and Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Property.
land and buildings and investment properties by value, covering approximately 28% of the Groups property portfolio as at 31 December 2016.
The valuer was also engaged to provide a detailed analysis of the property markets for relevant sectors in the key locations where the Groups properties are located.
Based on the these reports, management concluded that there were no material variances between the carrying value and the fair value of the Groups properties as at the balance sheet date.
Separate independent external valuers were appointed by GHG management to perform the valuation of the hospitals and clinics as at July 2016.
Real estate valuations are inherently uncertain and subject to an estimation process.
Furthermore, the Groups real estate properties are located primarily in Georgia, where the secondary market is relatively illiquid, particularly in respect of hospitals and clinics.
Although the valuations are performed by, appropriately qualified valuers, there remains a risk that individual assets might be inappropriately valued.
The risk has increased in the current year as a result of the extension of the revaluation model to the GHG hospitals and clinics.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 91 : Accounting policies pages 152 and 153 : and Notes 11 and 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 121 Additional Financial Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee ACCOUNTING FOR COMPLEX BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Based on the results of our OR ONE-OFF TRANSACTIONS We tested the methodology and assumptions behind the audit procedures, we significant judgments involved in the determination of the concluded that the accounting BUSINESS COMBINATIONS fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired.
We used for acquisitions during the year In July 2016, the Group acquired the our valuation specialists to assess the methodology and was appropriate.
remaining 75% of GGU that it did not hold assumptions used by management to value infrastructure previously, and in May 2016 GHG acquired assets in GGU.
We consider that one-off JSC GPC, a top-three pharmaceutical We considered whether managements assessment of the and complex transactions retailer in Georgia.
During the year GHG nature and value of separately identifiable intangible assets have been accounted for also acquired certain other smaller entities acquired was consistent with the requirements of IFRSs in accordance with relevant in addition to finalising the acquisition and market practice for similar transactions.
accounting for businesses acquired in 2015.
We tested on a sample basis the existence of acquired subsidiaries assets and liabilities, including obtaining We considered the actions There is a risk of error in the reporting evidence of legal title to land and buildings and taken by management for the acquisitions, particularly due to the underground assets.
in response to our judgment involved in determining the fair We performed procedures to test that management had recommendations regarding values of the identifiable net assets acquired, identified and fair valued liabilities and contingent liabilities the control environment.
assessing the fair value of the consideration, at the dates of acquisition.
During the year, the Group identifying the acquired intangibles and We reviewed the presentation and disclosures in the established an IFRS determining the resultant goodwill or gain financial statements.
accounting and control desk on bargain purchase.
and we consider that this OTHER TRANSACTIONS has remediated the weakness OTHER TRANSACTIONS We inspected significant one-off transactions and in internal control identified During the year the Group has entered into critically challenged the assumptions and judgments in our 2015 audit opinion.
a number of complex or one-off transactions made by management in determining the appropriate including the sale of Visa and Mastercard accounting treatment in accordance with applicable IFRSs, shares, the early redemption of Eurobonds and we assessed whether the conclusions reached by and additional investments in associates.
management were consistent with the underlying agreements and commercial factors applicable to each In our audit opinion in 2015 we stated that of the transactions.
we considered that the Group needed to improve its internal controls to match the growth in the business, particularly in relation to complex and one-off transactions.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 91 and 93 : Accounting policies page 147 : and Notes 5 and 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to IT general and automated controls over financial reporting.
In the current year, the results of our audit procedures with respect to this matter provided us with sufficient audit evidence to enable us to place reliance on the IT applications and relevant controls identified as having a material impact on the financial reporting process.
We have not included this risk above as it was no longer a risk that had a significant effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected components covering entities within the UK and Georgia, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
122 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work we performed: 2016 2015 4 4 No.
Revenue Profit Total assets No.
2 We audited specific accounts within these components.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
3 We performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
4 Profit before non-recurring items and tax.
The components for which we performed full or specific scope procedures are set out below: Component Scope Location Team BGEO Group plc Full London primary team JSC Bank of Georgia Full Georgia primary team Georgia Healthcare Group plc consolidated Full London and Georgia component team Georgian Global Utilities limited Specific Georgia component team 2 JSC m Real Estate Specific Georgia component team JSC BGEO Group Specific Georgia primary team INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were performed on two of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the specific scope components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal components of the Group.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK, but since Group management and operations reside in Georgia, the Group audit team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia and Russia.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Georgia four times during the current years audit and there was regular interaction between team members in each jurisdiction.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior Statutory Auditor and other members of the primary audit team to the component teams in Georgia.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component teams and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In addition, the primary team participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected audit working papers.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be GEL 20 million 2015: GEL 18 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax and non-recurring items.
We consider that this adjusted profit figure best represents the results of the underlying operations of the Group and as such provides us with an appropriate basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Starting basis Profit before tax: GEL 390 million Adjustments Non-recurring items: GEL 11.5 million Totals GEL 401.5 million materiality basis Materiality Materiality of GEL 20 million 5% of materiality basis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 123 Additional Financial Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely GEL 10 million 2015: GEL 9 million.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts was undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component was based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to components was as follows: BGEO Group plc GEL 10 million JSC Bank of Georgia GEL 7 million Georgia Healthcare Group plc GEL 3.5 million Specific scope components GEL 2.0 million REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of GEL 1 million 2015: GEL 0.9 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 114, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
124 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAS UK AND IRELAND We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions REPORTING information in the Annual Report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the Audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no exceptions REPORTING obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements to report.
in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
LISTING RULES REVIEW We are required to review: We have no exceptions REQUIREMENTS to report.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 35, and longer-term viability, set out on page 35: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAS UK AND IRELAND We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing material REPORTING or to draw attention to in relation to: to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
John Headley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 13 April 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BGEO Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 125 Additional Financial Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements statements Performance Strategy Overview
