Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Booker Group plc only The risk The Group has recorded provisions on its leasehold Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit properties as explained in note 20.
Our opinion on the financial statements is provisions requires a significant degree of judgement and unmodified the use of assumptions, including the expected cash flows We have audited the financial statements of Booker Group plc associated with the properties over the remaining lease term, for the period ended 25 March 2016 set out on pages 66 to the expected utilisation of the properties, expected costs 104.
In our opinion: related to dilapidations and to removing asbestos and the rates used to discount future cash flows to account for risk the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state and the time value of money.
As such there is a risk that the of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 25 provisions, and associated charges or credits in the statement March 2016 and of the Groups and the parent companys of comprehensive income, are materially misstated through profit for the year then ended: the use of inappropriate assumptions and judgement.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Our response Our procedures included obtaining the Standards as adopted by the European Union: financial models used to assess the property provisions and comparing the methodology used to our interpretation of the the parent company financial statements have been properly requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
We agreed prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, the data input for a sample of properties, such as lease costs including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and expiry dates to the original signed lease agreements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance and expected sub-let income to existing sub-lease income with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, agreements, third party valuation reports or where neither as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the of those were available to the assumptions made by the inIAS Regulation.
We critically evaluated the discount rates used to discount forecast cash flows associated with 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the provisions by comparing the specific rates used to market In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements data relevant to those cash flows.
We critically evaluated the the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect expected costs included in the models against the historical on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were trend of charges incurred in respect of dilapidations and as follows: removing asbestos.
We assessed the accuracy of the models by re-performing the calculation of the provisions.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the key drivers within Valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes the financial models, including discount rates, forecast cash 29.6m 2015: 19.7m Risk vs 2015: outflow and inflow and property utilisation rates to ascertain Refer to page 30 Audit Committee Report, page 74 the extent of change in those assumptions would be required accounting policy and page 89 financial disclosures.
for the provisions to be further increased or decreased.
We also considered the likelihood of such movements in those key The risk Significant assumptions are made in valuing assumptions arising.
We also considered the adequacy of the the Groups defined benefit pension schemes obligations, Groups disclosures in relation to the property provisions in including in particular the discount rate, inflation rates and the accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
average life expectancy as explained in note 19.
Small changes in the assumptions used could have a significant effect on the Acquisition accounting in respect of Booker Retail Partners results and financial position of the Group.
GB Limited BRP 82.8mnet assets New risk Our response Our audit procedures included testing of the Refer to page 30 Audit Committee Report, page 72 controls over the maintenance of the schemes membership accounting policy and page 81 financial disclosures.
data, sample testing from that data to the source documentation establishing the obligation to members.
With the support of our The risk In September 2015 the Group acquired Booker own actuarial specialists, we then challenged the key assumptions Retail Partners GB Limited, formerly Musgrave Retail Partners applied by the Group to that data to determine the net defined GB Limited, from Musgrave Group Plc.
Accounting for this benefit obligations.
We critically assessed the inflation rates and acquisition has involved significant judgement in respect life expectancy assumptions by comparing them against external of the identification of intangible assets such as brands and market data and industry benchmarks.
We also compared the customers relationships.
It has also included assessing the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the defined fair value of the net assets acquired in particular in respect benefit pension schemes against our internally developed of acquired properties, lease contracts and other property benchmarks and with other companies reporting as at March liabilities, working capital, and the calculation of amounts 2016 to ensure that they are consistent with our expectations.
In related to defined benefit pension schemes and taxation.
addition, we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the defined benefit pension schemes.
Our response Our audit procedures included challenging the Directors assessment of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with reference to evidence provided Property provisions 39.8m 2015: 20.4m Risk by third parties such as property surveyors and actuaries.
vs 2015: We critically evaluated the external valuers engaged by the Refer to page 30 Audit Committee Report, page 77 Directors involved in assessing the fair value of properties accounting policy and page 92 financial disclosures.
and amounts related to defined benefit pension schemes.
64 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements We also used our own specialists to challenge the acquisition In particular, we are required to report to you if: accounting including the amounts related to defined benefit we have identified material inconsistencies between the pension schemes and taxation, and the identification of knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors intangible assets.
We have also considered the adequacy of statement that they consider that the annual report and the Groups disclosures in respect of the acquisition of BRP.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of for shareholders to assess the Groups position and the scope of our audit performance, business model and strategy: or The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address was set at 7.6m 2015: 7.1m, determined with reference matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 150.8m 2015: 138.8m, of which it represents 5.0% 2015: 5.1%.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.35m 2015: 0.35m, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not reporting on qualitative grounds.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of Of the Groups seven reporting components, we subjected four the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not to audits for Group reporting purposes and the remaining three to in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or reviews including enquiry of financial information.
The latter were certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but provided us with additional audit law are not made: or coverage.
Our work covered 100% of the Groups profit before we have not received all the information and explanations tax, revenues and total assets 2015: 100%.
The Group audit team carried out the work on all the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: components at the Groups offices in Wellingborough, Deeside, the Directors statement, set out on page 17, in relation to Uxbridge and Eccles.
Component materialities ranged between going concern and longer term viability: and 1.1m and 6m 2015: between 5m and 6m.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 22 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven Companies Act 2006 is unmodified provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code In our opinion: specified for our review.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the information given in the Strategic Report and Statement set out on page 63, the Directors are Directors Report for the financial year for which the responsible for the preparation of the financial statements financial statements are prepared is consistent with the and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of at www.
This report is principal risks made solely to the Companys members as a body and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we is subject to important explanations and disclaimers have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 17, concerning the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, directors assessment and expectations of the groups the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor on which we are required to report by exception Chartered Accountants Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you 1 St Peters Square if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, Manchester we have identified other information in the annual report that M2 3AE contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or 18 May 2016 that is otherwise misleading.
