Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Bovis Homes Group PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Bovis Homes Group PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual report and accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Context Bovis Homes Group PLC is a British housebuilder listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is wholly UK based, operating in England and Wales.
The Group is dependent on macroeconomic factors as well as the conditions of the UK residential property market.
The Group may be particularly adversely affected by any factor that reduces sales prices or transaction volumes or presents constraints in the supply chain in the UK residential property market.
This was particularly relevant for our work in the areas of margin forecasting and the valuation of inventory Our audit approach - Overview Overall Group materiality: 7,730,000 which represents 5% of profit before tax.
The Group consists of one main trading entity and is structured into eight regions, being Materiality Mercia, West Midlands, Western, South West, Northern Home Counties, Eastern, Thames Valley and Southern.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these eight regional reporting units and the centralised Group functions.
We undertook work across each of the eight regions and the head office which together Audit account for 100% of the Group revenue and profit before tax.
scope Margin forecasting and recognition Valuation of available for sale assets shared equity Valuation of warranty and customer Areas of care provision Accounting for complex land acquisitions focus Carrying value of inventory 94 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Margin forecasting and recognition Refer to page 82 of the Audit Committee Report.
At a regional level we tested managements forecasting and monitoring controls, including attendance at a selection of the The Groups margin forecasting and recognition model CV surveyor and financial appraisal meetings model is based on a number of key assumptions including: We tested significant underlying assumptions within the CV Build costs allocated to each plot on an actual costs basis Model and checked the consistent application of the model through comparing the costs recognised and stage complete Central site costs, including infrastructure costs and land on key sites to the forecasts.
We also understood any allocated to each plot based on the Groups land significant differences between the forecast cost and actual factor model cost incurred.
Sales price based on a fixed expected sales price for the We also tested that the system correctly recalculated the type size of property cost apportionment following cost and stage completion Periodic surveyor and financial appraisals are performed to amendments made by management.
determine the costs to date and work in progress based upon We have tested a sample of forecast sales prices to the actual the stage of completion of each unit and the CV model is sales price attained for similar properties to support the validity updated accordingly.
of the estimated sales price in the CV model.
There is uncertainty within the above assumptions from potential We have tested a sample of costs incurred to third changes in the market conditions or unforeseen circumstances.
This could result in the forecast assumptions being inaccurate and an incorrect margin being recognised.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we considered the underlying assumptions in the forecast We consider this to be the most significant financial reporting risk to be inappropriate.
for the Group principally due to the high level of management judgement inherent in the accounting for the Groups developments and site appraisals.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 95 Auditors report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of warranty and customer care provision Refer to page 82 of the Audit Committee Report and page We have tested a sample of specific items included in the 126 of the financial statements.
provision to correspondence received from customers, and have corroborated the quantification of amounts provided The Group provides private home buyers with a 2 year by management back to supporting documentation or warranty against issues arising from a failure to build to explanations, including evidence of settlement post accepted standards.
As a result of this, the Group maintains year end.
a warranty provision to cover the expected costs of rectifying claims.
This provision is based on historical experience of such We have tested the calculation of the historical experience costs incurred across the Group supplemented by known by testing the underlying actual costs incurred and the specific items, and may include compensation costs where calculation apportioning this to properties sold during the considered necessary.
Whilst some of the claims are known at the reporting date, We have tested other directly related costs by there may be others which have either not been notified to corroborating these back to supporting documentation.
the Group or have not yet become visible to customers.
We have tested the completeness of the provision by As a result, there is inherent uncertainty with respect to the tracing back a sample of known identified claims to their completeness and valuation of the estimated provision to inclusion in the provision calculations.
Based on the procedures performed we noted no reasonable likely alternative assumptions that would result in a material change to the valuation of the provision.
Carrying value of inventory Refer to page 82 of the Audit Committee Report and page We tested margins for all major sites to identify those 109 of the financial statements.
with low or eroding margins, for example due to specific issues or underperformance.
We discussed the identified Inventory is comprised of land held for development, work sites with management, including considering the level of in progress WIP, raw materials and completed plots part provisions held against these sites and corroborated the exchange properties.
explanations with other external evidence to support the Land held for development and raw materials are held at cost.
WIP is made up of the cost of the land being built on, direct We tested the percentage completion of units across a materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those sample of sites and checked that forecasts have been overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories appropriately updated for costs incurred to date and to their present location and condition.
Completed plots are expected costs to completion.
held at build cost and part exchange properties are held at the market value determined at the time of exchange.
We also assessed the historical accuracy of managements forecasting.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV, NRV being the estimated net selling price less We considered the level and ageing of completed but estimated total costs of completion of the finished units based unreserved units and part exchange properties and on managements forecast challenged the recoverability of these assets.
Due to the cyclical nature of the housing industry or issues We checked that appropriate site acquisition approvals experienced during the build programme, there is a risk that considering site profitability had been obtained for the NRV of the inventory is lower than cost and therefore significant sites.
inventory is held at the incorrect value.
Based on the procedures performed we did not identify any sites where we determined that additional impairments were required in the year, above those already made by management.
96 96 || Annual report and accounts Annual report and accounts || Our governance Our governance Our governance Our governance Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of available for sale assets shared equity Refer to page 82 of the Audit Committee Report and page 111 We tested the mechanics and base data of the valuation model of the financial statements.
and through discussion with management understood the key assumptions included within the model.
We then evaluated Shared equity assets are held at fair value and comprise longand challenged these assumptions with our own independent term receivables from shared equity schemes.
The valuation research on house prices.
method for these assets is not capable of being based on observable market data and therefore the valuation model of We assessed whether the current assumptions are reflective of these assets is highly subjective to management judgement and any historic trends of redemption of loans.
We also benchmarked estimates including expected house price movements, credit risk the shared equity schemes against other known shared equity of borrowers, discount rates, recoverability and expected timing schemes to ensure the assumptions are reasonable.
Based on the procedures performed we noted no reasonable likely Fluctuations in the underlying assumptions used could have a alternative assumptions that would result in a material change to material impact on the value of these assets.
Accounting for complex land acquisitions Refer to page 82 of the Audit Committee Report and page 109 We tested key controls, including approval for land acquisitions of the financial statements.
and approval to enter into or extend a land purchase option.
The Group enters into certain complex land acquisitions On a sample basis, we reviewed managements papers on the either through a complex structure or with complex terms proposed accounting treatment of the transactions.
attached such as overages, options or specific agreements We substantively tested material or complex land acquisitions with the purchaser.
through examination of contracts and agreements to check Acquisitions of land could be incorrectly accounted for due to that the acquisition and subsequent overage terms have been the complex manner in which transactions can be structured.
identified and accounted for appropriately, and that there are no unrecorded liabilities within the financial statements.
Where relevant we agreed cash payments and receipts to completion statements and bank statements.
We assessed the accounting treatment of the transactions against relevant accounting standards.
Based on the procedures performed we were satisfied that management had appropriately accounted for these transactions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group consists of one main trading entity and is structured into eight regions, being Mercia, West Midlands, Western, South West, Northern Home Counties, Eastern, Thames Valley and Southern.
We undertook work across each of the eight regions and the head office which together account for 100% of the Group revenue and profit before tax.
Our work in the regions, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and certain items, including defined benefit pension scheme balances, cash, accounts payable and share equity available for sale assets, were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 97 Auditors report Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 7,730,000 2015: 8,000,000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax is the most appropriate measure and it provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 390,000 2015: 400,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
98 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Our governance ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 51, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, exceptions to report.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 81, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the exceptions to report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 28 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those material to add or to that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and material to add or to why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable draw attention to.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 99 Auditors report Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2017 100 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance
