Independent Auditors Report to the members of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 3 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 45.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 59 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 35-37 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
100 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk REVENUE RECOGNITION As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness onpage 115, revenue is earned from investment management of relevant controls relating to investment management fees, fees of 190.5m, commissions of 71.0m and other income including the associated IT controls.
We selected a sample of quarterly investment management fee Investment management fees account for approximately 67% of calculations for individual clients and recalculated the system total revenue and are based on a percentage of individual clients generated amount.
We agreed a sample of the rates used to client funds under management.
There is a risk that incorrect rates or contracts and the value of funds under management to third party fund valuations are used to calculate management fees.
Additionally, we tested a sample of manual fee of errors increases where manual amendments are made to amendments to determine their validity in accordance with client system calculated fees.
agreements and the Groups policy.
IMPAIRMENT REVIEW OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS AND GOODWILL Historically, the Group expanded through acquisitions leading In assessing the intangible assets, we have reviewed the togoodwill and client relationships resulting in the recognition calculations prepared by management to assess whether they of71.4m 2015: 77.7m of capitalised client relationships meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and that andgoodwill.
the assumptions and judgements made are appropriate.
As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies on To do this, we have challenged the percentages management page 115, intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least have applied to market values of funds under management to annually.
This is considered to be a key source of estimation determine fair value, and validated these against percentages uncertainty for the Group as described on page 123. derived from recent public acquisitions of fund management businesses.
Determining whether these intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount for each of the Groups We tested the controls over the production of funds under cash-generating units CGUs and where the carrying amount management data, designed to ensure its completeness exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment should be andaccuracy.
This assessment is driven by estimates of the fair value We have also recalculated the sensitivity of the valuation of funds of CGUs based on a percentage of funds under management.
under management which is disclosed in note 17.
The percentages used are inherently judgemental.
ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING THE CALCULATION OF THE PENSION SCHEME LIABILITY The Group has recognised a defined benefit pension deficit of In order to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions used 7.0m 2015: 2.9m deficit.
The deficit comprises assets of by management, we have used our own actuarial experts to make 105.4m and liabilities of 112.4m.
direct enquiries of the Groups actuary and review the key actuarial assumptions adopted in the IAS 19 Employee Benefits pension The calculation of the liability is sensitive to changes in underlying valuation.
In particular we compared the discount rate, inflation assumptions and is considered to be a key source of estimation rate and mortality assumptions to our independently determined uncertainty for the Group as detailed on page 123. benchmarks derived using market and other data.
The key assumptions are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rate where small changes to these assumptions could result in a material change to the pension liability valuation.
Last year, our report included three significant risks that have not been included in our report this year relating to estimation for provisions for sundry claims and associated costs, onerous lease contracts and dilapidations, and the sale of the Stocktrade division.
Provisions for sundry claims and associated costs have reduced in the year and hence we have not reported it as a significant risk above.
The level of judgement required in estimating provisions for onerous lease contracts and dilapidations has reduced in the year and hence we no longer consider there to be an associated significant risk of material misstatement.
With the completion of the sale ofStocktrade in April 2016, this is no longer considered to be a significant risk of material misstatement.
This year we have included a new significant risk relating to revenue.
This reflects the relative amount of audit effort directed to testing investment management fees.
We do not consider the risk of material misstatement to have increased from the prior year.
co. uk 101 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.485m 2015: 3.0m, which is 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations and is consistent with our approach for the 2015 audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 49,700 2015: 61,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group consists of the main trading subsidiary, Brewin Dolphin Limited, along with Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, and Brewin Dolphin MP.
As Brewin Dolphin Limited makes up 97.5% of the Groups revenue and its profit before tax is higher than the Group we have used Group materiality of 2.485m.
The majority of the operations of the Group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish company, which represents less than 2.5% of revenue and is audited by another Deloitte member firm.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
102 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Robert Topley FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 29 November 2016 brewin.
