77 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of British Empire Trust plc Our opinion on financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion the financial statements: Risks of material misstatement Incorrect revenue recognition.
give a true and fair view of the state of British Empire Trust plcs the Company Incorrect valuation of the affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: investment portfolio.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and Audit scope The scope of the audit was the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies audit of the single entity, British Act 2006.
All audit work was performed directly by the What we have audited audit engagement team under the We have audited the financial statements of the Company for the year ended direction of the Senior Statutory 30 September 2016 which comprises: Auditor.
Materiality Overall materiality of 8.44m Company represents 1% of net assets.
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 September 2016 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 September 2016 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2016 We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 September 2016 in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing Related notes 1 to 19 to the financial statements these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is not express any opinion on these individual areas.
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Risk Our response to the risk Incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio We performed walk-through procedures over the systems and controls Incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio, including incorrect in place for the valuation of the investment portfolio.
application of exchange rates upon conversion of foreign currency denominated investments.
Using our proprietary valuation software, we compared the valuation of each listed security position at 30 September 2016, representing 100% In accordance with IAS 39, the Companys quoted investments have of the investment portfolio, to a range of valuation sources.
been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
We considered the liquidity of the portfolio of investments and whether There were no unquoted holdings at 30 September 2016. there was any evidence to suggest that a discount to the bid price should be applied in valuing the equity investments.
We reviewed pricing exception reports and obtained an understanding and corroborated evidence for unexpected variances.
We agreed the number of shares held for each security to confirmations of legal title received from the Companys custodian, JPMorgan, and third party evidence.
What we reported to the Audit Committee Based on the work performed, we had no matters to report to the Audit Committee.
Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition We performed the following procedures: Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise Assessed the controls in place at the Investment Manager and Capita proper income entitlements or to apply the appropriate accounting Asset Services to ensure the accurate recording of revenue.
treatment for recognition of income.
We have included income recognition in our 2016 audit report which was not included in our 2015 report.
Agreed a sample of dividends received from the income report to an independent pricing source.
The largest income stream relates to dividend income totaling 19,473,000 for the year ended 30 September 2016.
There were two Agreed 100% of accrued dividends to an independent source.
The first related to Symphony, which was treated as revenue, and the other to Brookfield, a corporate action which Performed a review of material special dividends received and assessing was treated as a capital item.
There is a risk that these special dividends the appropriateness of the accounting treatment.
are presented incorrectly in the Companys financial statements.
What we reported to the Audit Committee Based on the work performed we had no matters to report to the Audit Committee.
78 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of British Empire Trust plc continued Our application of materiality Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming out on pages 46 and 47, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of our audit opinion.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Materiality statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.44m 2015: 6.975m, work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members which is 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for on a proportion of net assets as we consider it to be the key measurement no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or of the companys performance.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Performance materiality have formed.
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
In our opinion: the part of the Report on Remuneration Implementation to be audited has On the basis of our risk assessments, our assessment of the Companys been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and overall control environment, our judgement was that, as a result of a low the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors history of errors, performance materiality was 75% of our planning materiality, for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is namely 6.33m 2015: 5.232m.
consistent with the financial statements.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Company we have also applied a separate testing threshold of 842,000 ISAs UK and Ireland 2015: 656,000 for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial Income, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
information in the annual financial report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Reporting threshold statements: or An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our clearly trivial.
knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all otherwise misleading.
uncorrected audit differences in excess of 422,000 2015: 349,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual financial We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual financial report appropriately addresses those matters that Scope of the audit of the financial statements we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the disclosed.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We have no exceptions to report.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the financial report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
79 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Report on Remuneration Implementation to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the Directors statements in relation to going concern and longer-term viability set out on page 47: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the annual financial report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual financial report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual financial report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Ashley Coups Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 10 November 2016
