60 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 UNITED KINGDOM OPINION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC Report on the group financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our opinion Our responsibilities and those of the directors In our opinion, British Telecommunications plcs group financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors statements the financial statements : responsibilities set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at that they give a true and fair view.
31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with International statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those Union: and standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Standards Board IASB.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
What we have audited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and British Telecommunications plcs financial statements comprise: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the group income statement and group statement of assessment of: comprehensive income for the year then ended: the group cash flow statement for the year then ended: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups the group statement of changes in equity for the year then circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately ended: and disclosed: the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors European Union and applicable law.
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect We test and examine information, using sampling and other of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide have made assumptions and considered future events.
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 procedures or a combination of both.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 to identify material financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to statements.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Other matters on which we are required to report by exception by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of Adequacy of information and explanations received any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you the implications for our report.
if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to Other matter report arising from this responsibility.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended Directors remuneration 31March 2016.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor arising from this responsibility.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 May 2016 Independent Auditors report 61 Consolidated financial statements UNITED STATES OPINION REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC THE COMPANY In our opinion, the accompanying group balance sheets and A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process the related group income statements, group statements of designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability comprehensive income, group statements of changes in equity of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements and group cash flow statements present fairly, in all material for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted respects, the financial position of British Telecommunications plc accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 and reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately three years in the period ended 31 March 2016 in conformity and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are International Accounting Standards Board.
Also in our opinion, recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2016, based on that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only criteria established in the FRC Guidance on risk management, in accordance with authorisations of management and directors internal control and related financial and business reporting.
of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or The companys management is responsible for these financial disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial on the financial statements.
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in managements Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, reporting as set out in the first two paragraphs of Internal control projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are over financial reporting in the Report of the Directors, General subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because information, of the British Telecommunications plc Annual Report of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the &Form 20-F 2016. policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial As described in the second paragraph of Internal control over statements and on the companys internal control over financial financial reporting in the Report of the Directors, General reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our information, of the British Telecommunications plc Annual Report audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company & Form 20-F 2016, management has excluded EE Limited from Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable 31 March 2016, based on the FRC Guidance on internal control assurance about whether the financial statements are free of Turnbull, which is now reflected in the FRC Guidance on risk material misstatement and whether effective internal control over management, internal control and related financial and business financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
reporting, because it was acquired by the company in a purchase business combination during 2016.
We have also excluded EE Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on Limited from our audit of internal control over financial reporting.
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures EE Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets and in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles total revenues represent 29% and 5%, respectively, of the related used and significant estimates made by management, and consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit ended 31 March 2016. of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating  LLP the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on London, United Kingdom the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other 12 May 2016 procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
