116 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC Report on the parent company financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Our opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable law and In our opinion, British Telecommunications plcs parent company International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & financial statements the financial statements : Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Companies Act 2006. responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save What we have audited where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
British Telecommunications plcs financial statements comprise: What an audit of financial statements involves the parent company balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and then ended: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the parent company accounting policies for the year then ended: assurance that the financial statements are free from material and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the notes to the financial statements which include other assessment of: explanatory information.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent The financial reporting framework that has been applied in companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom adequately disclosed: Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally the directors: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect directors judgements against available evidence, forming our of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We test and examine information, using sampling and other In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, statements.
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Other matters on which we are required to report by exception in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 to identify material Adequacy of accounting records and information and inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to explanations received identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired if, in our opinion: by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware we have not received all the information and explanations we of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we require for our audit: or consider the implications for our report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Other matter received from branches not visited by us: or We have reported separately on the group financial statements the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration for and on behalf of  LLP specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors arising from this responsibility.
London 12 May 2016 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
