Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 2 October 2016 and of the groups profit for the 53 week period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Britvic plc for the 53week period ended 2 October 2016 which comprise: GROUP PARENT COMPANY Consolidated income statement for the 53 week period ended 2 October 2016 Balance sheet as at 2 October 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income expense for the Cash Flow Statement for the 53 week period 53 week period ended 2 October 2016 ended 2 October 2016 Consolidated balance sheet as at 2 October 2016 Statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period ended 2 October 2016 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the 53 week period ended 2 October 2016 Related notes 1 to 14 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period ended 2 October 2016 Related notes 1 to 32 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 88, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
90 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
indd 90 13 12 2016 19:11 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc continued These risks are consistent with those identified and reported in 2015 with the exception of one additional area within the risk of management override of internal control, being the accounting for, and valuation of, the contingencies that management have identified in respect of the Groups acquisition of Britvic Brazil in the current year.
The risks noted below are discussed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 to 55 and in the accounting policy notes on pages 101 to 108.
RISK revenue recognition Description of risk Revenue is recognised on confirmation of product delivery to customers.
Given the volume of deliveries and market focus on revenue performance we consider there is a risk in relation to the potential overstatement of revenue at the period end.
Our response to this risk we tested controls over revenue recognition, including those relating to the timing of revenue recognition: we performed revenue transaction testing, which included ensuring that the transaction had been appropriately recorded in the income statement at the right time: we performed cut-off testing on customer delivery notes around the period end: we reviewed post year end credit notes for any items that related to the audit period: we examined the appropriateness of the roll-forward adjustments recorded for both Britvic Brazil and Britvic France that are posted due to the non-coterminous year end dates of these components with the Group.
we looked for and tested journal entries relating to revenue for transactions close to the period end to ensure they were valid entries.
We also analysed and selected journals for testing which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer or beingmanually posted.
We verified the journals to originating documentation to confirm that the entry was valid: and we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in accordance with accounting standards.
The above work was performed at all full and specific scope locations.
Within International Standard on Auditing UK&I 240 there is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition.
We therefore evaluated the revenue transactions or assertions which give rise to such risk in the current year as noted above.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures we are satisfied that the revenue cut-off was appropriate.
RISK management override of internal control over discounts Description of risk The risk of material misstatement due to management override of controls is considered a risk in every audit.
Management has the primary responsibility to prevent and detect fraud.
We are required by professional auditing standards to consider how this risk may manifest itself and design appropriate procedures.
Management could manipulate results through the accounting for promotional discounts and long term discounts which are deducted from revenue.
Our response to this risk we obtained an understanding of the Groups processes for the recognition and management of discounts provided to customers including obtaining an understanding of the design of the controls in place within the GB, Ireland and International divisions where such discounts are most prevalent: we tested a sample of long term and promotional discount expenses throughout the period and the period end accruals by agreeing balances through to supporting documentation and ensured that the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS: we performed analytical procedures including the correlation of revenue to discounts to assess completeness of discounts: we performed testing of post year end discounts, both settled and recorded, as evidence of the appropriateness of discount accruals recognised at the year end: we reviewed post year end credit notes for any items that related to the audit period: we held bi-annual meetings with the customer account teams in GB to update our knowledge of the status of customer negotiations and the process by which discounts have been recorded: we looked for and tested journal entries relating to revenue for transactions close to the period end to ensure they were valid entries.
We also analysed and selected journals for testing which appeared unusual in nature either due to size, preparer or being manually posted.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures, we have not identified any management override of the discounts either expensed or accrued in the financial statements.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 91 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
indd 91 13 12 2016 19:11 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc continued RISK management override of internal control over customer claims and other financial items Description of risk The risk of material misstatement due to management override of controls is considered a risk in every audit.
We are required by professional auditing standards to consider how this risk may manifest itself and design appropriate procedures: There are a number of judgemental accruals which are susceptible to manipulation by management including customer claims in GB, group wide bonuses and contingent liabilities associated with the acquisition of ebba Britvic Brazil.
Our response to this risk We performed procedures, including analytical procedures and journal entry testing, sufficient to address the identified risk in respect of subjective areas which were considered to be most susceptible to management override.
For GB customer claims: - we held bi-annual discussions with a sample of customer account teams directly involved in negotiations with customers, including those responsible for the relationship with the big supermarkets.
Through these discussions we understood the current relationship with each customer and the status of any claims: - we reviewed the methodology and process by which claims have been accrued for appropriateness and consistency with the prior year, specifically reviewing the process for identifying claims which have not been received and audited a sample of payments made after the year end to audit the accuracy of the accrued amounts: and - we compared the level of aged debt held in relation to significant customers to the customer claims provision and investigated any additional significant un-provided aged debts that did not have a corresponding provision within the customer claims provision.
For other financial items including group wide bonuses : - we audited the inputs in the assessments made by management to determine if balanced judgement and accurate calculations have been applied: - where possible, we have tested post year payments to validate the amounts recorded at the reporting period end: and - where similar accruals and provisions were held in the previous period we compared assumptions used in the current period calculations to those used previously and tested any changes in assumptions to gain assurance that they are appropriate.
For the contingent liabilities arising on the acquisition of Britvic Brazil: - we have reviewed the contract terms of the sale and purchase agreement to understand the nature of any items covered by warranties given in the sale and purchase agreement: - we have traced the gross liabilities through to supporting documentation: and - we have assessed the appropriateness of the weighted average probability applied to the gross liabilities to arrive at the fair value.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures, we have not identified any instances of management override in the areas noted.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply this concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
Performance Reporting Materiality 7.7m materiality 5.8m threshold 0.39m 92 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
indd 92 13 12 2016 19:11 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc continued Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that individually, or in aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 7.7 million 2015: 7.5 million, which is approximately 5% 2015: 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted for the exceptional costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Britvic Brazil because, in our view, this is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
This materiality provided the basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures, and identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement.
Profit before tax of 151.9m as per the Annual Report Starting basis Acquisition and integration costs associated with Britvic Brazil of 5.2m as per Note 5 of the Annual Report Adjustment Represents 5% of the adjusted profit before tax Materiality Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality for the group should be 75% 2015: 75% of planning materiality, namely 5.8 million 2015: 5.6 million.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.6 million to 4.9 million 2015: 0.6 million to 4.8 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.39 million 2015: 0.38 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 93 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
indd 93 13 12 2016 19:11 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group which, when taken together, enable us to form an opinion on the group financial statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In addition to auditing the Group level functions our group audit scope focused on five businesses, of which GB, France and Brazil were subject to a full scope audit for the 53 week period ended 2 October 2016.
Certain operations of the remaining two businesses - Ireland and International - were subject to a specific scope audit, where the extent of the audit work was based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement in specific account balances and the materiality of those operations to the Groups business.
Together with the Group functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit, these operations represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 97% 2015: 95% of the Groups total assets, 96% 2015: 96% of the Groups revenue and 95% 2015: 90% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For 2016, the full scope components contributed 105% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
The two specific scope components contributed 8% of the Groups revenue and 10 % of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
The audit scope of these components did not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
ADJUSTED PBT REVENUE 3% 3% GB GB 7% 6% France 4% France 9% Ireland Ireland 8% International International Brazil Brazil 18% 64% 98% For the remaining locations, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Changes from the prior year Our scoping broadly remains unchanged from the prior year other than the allocation of a full scope audit for Brazil, since this entity was acquired on 30 September 2015.
Involvement with component teams The Senior Statutory Auditor leads the audit of GB, the audit of both specific scope locations, and the audit of the group functions.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Brazil, a full scope location, participated in the Brazil and France component teams planning including the discussion of fraud and error and joined the closing meeting calls in both territories.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by theCompanies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 34 to 35 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
94 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
indd 94 13 12 2016 19:11 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britvic plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the We have no and Ireland annual report is: exceptions reporting to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Act 2006 exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate reporting to report.
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules review exceptions the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 87, and longer-term viability, requirements to report.
set out on page 32: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have and Ireland attention to in relation to: nothing reporting material the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of to add or the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future to draw performance, solvency or liquidity: attention to.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 29 November 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Britvic Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 95 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p089-158.
