INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF N BROWN GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit: 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of N Brown Group PLC for the year ended 27 February 2016 set out on pages 84 to 118.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 February 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The Risk Our response Allowance for The allowance for doubtful debts requires the Directors Our audit procedures included: doubtful debts to assess which accounts are considered impaired.
This We critically assessed the Groups definition of impaired 97.6m assessment is particularly judgmental in the case of customer receivables against the requirements of the 2015, 100.9m customers in early arrears or under revised payment relevant accounting standards, including evidence of the terms and may have a material impact upon the Refer to page 60 Groups experience of customers with comparable provision.
The large percentage of the Groups Audit Committee characteristics.
customers that are subject to revised payment terms, Report, pages 88, in particular where interest has been temporarily waived We compared the assumptions made in respect of the 91 and 93 make the impact of this judgment more significant for probabilities of default against our understanding of the accounting NBrown.
Group as well as our knowledge of market counterparts, policy, pages 101 and consistency with the historic internal data available.
to 106 financial The Group has altered the population considered for disclosures doubtful debts to include all accounts with revised We assessed the assumptions made in respect of timing payment terms, resulting in a prior year restatement and value of cash flows for all segments of the model within the current year financial statements.
including customers in arrears and subject to revised payment terms against historic internal data available.
The other key judgements are in respect of the probability of default and the timing and value of We assessed the accuracy of the allowance for doubtful debt cash flows.
model including for prior year restatements, with assistance from our IT specialists, by reviewing the detail of the model, To assess the probability of default, the Group estimates and compared the methodology used to our interpretation a customers likelihood of entering default based of the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
upon the experience of customers with comparable This included testing of the completeness and accuracy of characteristics such as arrears status and payment data through testing a sample of customer data back to the history.
These estimates are inherently uncertain source system.
because they are reliant upon historic, non-predictive data and are impacted by the Groups segmentation of We also considered the adequacy of the Groups customers with comparable impairment characteristics.
disclosures in relation to the allowance for doubtful debts for compliance with the relevant accounting policies.
The timing and value of cash flows are estimated based on the historical cash receipts and write-offs incurred for customers with comparable arrears status and payment history, interest and fees charged and debt sale rates.
These estimates are inherently uncertain because of the long-term nature of the cash receipts and the exposure of the portfolio to the credit performance of many individual customers.
Due to the quantity of data involved in assessing all of these elements of the provision, it is a complex model for which the completeness and accuracy of data inputs and the accuracy of calculations are, in themselves, risks.
N Brown Group plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements The Risk Our response Regulatory risk The Groups provision of credit services to customers Our audit procedures included: mean that it operates within a regulated environment Refer to page 60 We assessed the areas of non-compliance and customer which requires the Group to comply with the Audit Committee complaints identified and documented by the Group, requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Report, page 93 against the wider industry and discussed with management and maintain FCA permissions.
These permissions could accounting policy the financial implications of these issues.
This included be suspended or withdrawn by the FCA, significantly and financial estimation of the likely impact of any known areas of impacting the Groups ability to continue with its current disclosures non-compliance until the resolution of this issue.
We assessed the entity-wide governance processes The requirement for FCA permissions includes the fair for the identification of regulatory issues and areas of treatment of customers, protections for vulnerable non-compliance.
customers and appropriate and clear disclosure of terms to customers and, given the current context of media We reviewed correspondence with the regulators coverage and large scale customer redress provisions and assessed customer complaints for indications of across the financial services industry, there is a risk that significant or non-identified areas of customer detriment any non-compliance with regulations could trigger that may require provision in the financial statements.
significant customer redress programmes or lead to material fines from the FCA.
Taxation The outcome of a number of open VAT and corporation Our audit procedures included, with assistance from our Provisions taxation positions, some of which are proceeding to own tax specialists, challenging the Directors assessment litigation, is uncertain and as such have required the of the provisions required by: Refer to page 60 Directors to make significant judgements and estimates Audit Committee Inspecting correspondence with HMRC and evaluating the in relation to the likely outcome of these tax issues and Report, pages 91 Directors interpretation of this correspondence by forming exposures.
There is a risk that the judgements made by and 93 accounting our own expectations of the provisions required in the the Directors, and therefore the amounts recorded in the policy, pages 97 financial statements.
This evaluation was based on our financial statements will differ from any final settlements to 98 and 106 knowledge of the business and experience of the industry agreed with HMRC.
Given the significant value and financial in which it operates, together with our knowledge and judgmental nature of this provisioning, this is considered disclosures experience of the application of the relevant legislation to be an area of significant audit risk.
Specifically in relation to VAT, we inspected legal counsel opinion received by the Directors in relation to the Groups likelihood of success in each of the open VAT exposures and critically assessed whether amounts recorded in the financial statements were consistent with this legal opinion.
Carrying value The Group has significant levels of inventory and Our audit procedures included comparing inventory levels, of inventories: judgements are taken by the Group with regard to the by season, to sales data to test whether slow moving and 101.5m categorisation of inventory as current and non-current obsolete inventories had been appropriately identified.
2015, 94.8m at year end and the forecast disposal plans when We considered sales of inventories during the year, estimating the inventory provision.
Furthermore, in particular of inventory that has been held for greater Refer to page 60 the seasonal nature of a retail business and changes than one year and clearance categories, and compared Audit Committee in customer preferences and spending patterns, these sales to the Groups forecast disposal Report, pages 91 primarily driven by the wider fashion industry, plan at the period end date.
and 93 accounting introduce uncertainty over the recoverability of policy, page 100 We utilised data analytics to test the adequacy of inventory inventories.
Given the level of judgements and financial provision by comparing the selling price of inventory in the estimates involved this is considered to be a key disclosures year to the cost of the inventory as well as analysing the audit risk.
We also considered whether the Groups accounting policies had been consistently applied and the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgement and estimation made in respect of inventory provisioning.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF N BROWN GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Risk Our response Capitalised The Group has incurred significant software and For the key inputs into the projects profitability software and development project costs in the year in respect forecast, specifically revenue growth, cost reduction development of the Fit 4 Future project, a significant systems and the timing and amount of capital expenditure, costs: 116.0m infrastructure programme.
The Group capitalises we critically assessed the reasonableness of the 2015, 89.4m both internal and external costs to the extent that assumptions with reference to internal and external Refer to page 60 future economic benefits are expected to be data from Project and Infrastructure leads, BoardAudit Committee generated by the project.
This requires judgement approved capital spending forecasts, an independent Report, pages 90 as to whether the costs incurred are capital in financial benefits review and knowledge gained and 93 accounting nature, whether the project will be completed from performing our other audit procedures.
We policy, pages 99 successfully and, whether sufficient revenue and challenged the Groups assessment of the technical to 100 financial profitability will be generated to recover the costs feasibility of the different project releases based on disclosures capitalised.
The Directors also apply judgment as our discussions with key project leads and reviews to whether the software and development costs of detailed business cases produced internally and incurred are for technically feasible systems externally, outlining the proposed features and and websites.
Given the significant value and expected completion dates.
We assessed whether judgmental nature of the classification of software costs had been appropriately capitalised, by reference and development assets, between operational to the recognition criteria of the applicable accounting and capital expenditure, this is considered to be standards, for a sample of costs agreed to source an area of significant audit risk.
We evaluated the adequacy of the Group's disclosures in respect of the judgements made by management that economic benefit will be derived from the projects.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.8 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude exceptional items relating to reorganisation costs and the write down of stock following the closure of clearance stores, of 17.2 million, of which it represents 4.3%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.2 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability statement on pages 54 and 55, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
N Brown Group plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 54 and 55, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 56 to 58 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 55, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Burdass Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 2 June 2016 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 83
