Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified .
In our opinion:  :    : theparentcompanyfinancialstatementshavebeenproperlypreparedinaccordancewithandas :and , asregards , .
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement  : Recoverability of other intangible assets: 599m 2015: 598m and goodwill: 188m 2015: 184m.
The risk: Our response:  :  ,    impairment indicators exist: Varithena, an early stage asset, goodwillareallocated.
:PneumRx, amorerecent  acquisition and also an early stage asset.
for  Inparticular,  required clinical and regulatory approvals there is inherent , and uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future externalmarketdata, whereavailable, intermsofmarketsize cashflows,  and expectations of market share.
 80  Financials recent performance in relation to key inputs such as forecast revenue over the next three years, operating margins and cashflowgrowth.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Active government DOJ investigation.
The risk: Our response: ,    , ourprincipal .
We focused on this area due to the active We considered legal expenses incurred during the year,  monitored external sources and considered assessments LCBead covering the period since 2003, the magnitude  of potential exposure, and the inherent complexity .
 We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the this exposure.
financialstatements,  provision, and the completeness and accuracy of disclosures in .
Recognition of deferred tax assets: Risk vs 2015.
The risk: Our response:  :  We evaluated the appropriateness of managements key businessperformance.
 assumptions and estimates, in particular the likelihood of   , whichdeterminesthe recognition of deferred tax assets, in reference to recent .
Thisis product launches, performance trends and acquisitions.
 assessments and conclusions for their appropriateness.
 sensitivity of the recognition of deferred tax assets to  the associated inherent risks.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc only continued  2015:three .
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks , : , , theirmanagement, and, basedonthat, the :or .
 reportbyexception UnderISAs UKandIreland , , wehave  financialstatements, , .
: 82 the Directors Statements, set out on pages 77 and 29, :and Financials  to 49  .
Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor , StatutoryAuditor CharteredAccountants 15 Canada Square London E145GL 16May2016 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
