Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report: the Directors Report: Report on the Group financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Our opinion In our opinion, Burberry Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted then ended: by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law including Financial Reporting Standard 101 have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are European Union: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2015 16 the Annual Report, comprise: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: statements respectively: and the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company the Analysis of Net Cash as at 31 March 2016: and will continue in business.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys explanatory information.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our audit approach Context The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Burberry Group plc is a British global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler listed on the London Stock Exchange.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Group operates globally across over 30 countries.
The context for our audit has been set against the Groups structure and strategy as well as the more challenging trading conditions.
This was particularly relevant for the work performed on inventory Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 64 to 65 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: provisioning, impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions and the valuation of the China put option liability.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The area of focus where work was primarily performed by component teams was the assessment of inventory provisioning.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the The judgements in respect of the completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures, China put option liability Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
valuation, impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset, impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions and presentation of non-GAAP measures are primarily taken at a Group level.
These statements were approved by the Board on 17 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 20 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax 2015: 20 million.
Audit Of the Groups 82 reporting units we identified six reporting units which, in our view, require a full scope audit of their financial Scope information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These reporting units are located in the UK, China, Hong Kong and Korea and two are located in the US.
We used local teams in these countries to perform those full scope audits relating to the relevant reporting units.
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather All six reporting units were visited by the Group audit team during the course of the year in order to attend local management meetings and, for financially significant reporting units, review working papers.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team held Chairman Chief Financial Officer regular meetings with these components to direct and supervise the work of these local teams and to ensure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The six components where we performed full scope audits represented 76% 2015: 78% of Group revenue and 89% 2015: 92% of profit before taxation.
Focus Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures.
China put option liability valuation.
Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions.
Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
114 115 115 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level assessed the basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions inventory of provisioning in line with policy and the rationale for the recording as at 31 March 2016: 486.7m: refer to note 16 to the financial of specific provisions.
Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level In doing so we tested the provision calculations and determined that of provisioning for items which may be ultimately destroyed or sold they appropriately took into account the ageing profile of inventory, below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer demand particularly the process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical in light of the current more challenging trading conditions.
judgements include managements expectations for future sales As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and and inventory liquidation plans.
raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well as managements expectations for future sales and inventory management plans.
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures The directors are required to apply significant judgement when Through discussions with management, we understood the determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of related accounting policy for provisioning against tax exposures.
jurisdictions refer to notes 9, 14 and 29 to the financial statements.
Based on this, we assessed the extent to which provisions are Given the inherent uncertainty over the outcome of pending tax supported by underlying circumstances and determined that assessments, significant judgement is applied by the directors they are being made on a consistent basis to previous years.
in estimating the final outcome of such tax assessments.
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and the financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a judgement in estimating the amount of provision required, which is provision, by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the increased by the number of jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax As noted in note 29 to the financial statements, the Group is subject authorities and advisors, and by obtaining written responses to tax audits and claims in a number of jurisdictions, including a from the Group's external advisors on the material tax exposures.
dispute with the Spanish tax authorities.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and reflected the latest developments.
116 116 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus China put option liability valuation We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution The most judgemental input is the forecast performance of the business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group Groups business in China.
We agreed this to latest available We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business information including managements forecasts of the future In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting in China.
A put option exists over this interest, which is exercisable performance of the Groups business in China, actual historic estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits after 1 September 2020.
At 31 March 2016 the option is recorded results of the China business and GDP growth forecasts for we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of at 45.8m 2015: 54.4m.
the Chinese economy as published by third-party sources.
bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in The average historical Burberry Group plc multiple is in line the Groups business in China is based on a number of assumptions, with our recalculation of the multiple based on the Groups The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, the key ones being the future performance of the Groups business in actual multiple over the relevant period.
are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk We critically assessed the risk adjusted discount rate for China areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free rate and determined that this was in line with the China business cost in China refer to note 19 to the financial statements.
Changes in fair procedures should be read in this context.
of capital and with the discount rate of comparable luxury retailers.
value of the liability in the current year resulted in a credit to finance We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was income of 9.9m see note 6.
We focused on this area because of Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus consistent with prior periods and with the terms of the put option.
the inherent judgement involved in determining these assumptions Inventory provisioning Based on the work performed on the aforementioned, no material and the magnitude of the put option liability.
exceptions or inconsistencies were noted.
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level assessed the basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency We confirmed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions inventory of provisioning in line with policy and the rationale for the recording valuation, including the related sensitivities.
We confirmed that the as at 31 March 2016: 486.7m: refer to note 16 to the financial of specific provisions.
net present value of the put option has been recognised as a nonstatements.
Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level current financial liability under IAS 39 and that related disclosures In doing so we tested the provision calculations and determined that of provisioning for items which may be ultimately destroyed or sold are in line with the disclosure requirements contained within IFRS 7. they appropriately took into account the ageing profile of inventory, below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer demand particularly the process for identifying specific problem inventory and historical Impairment of fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset in light of the current more challenging trading conditions.
In FY13, the Group reacquired the licence to sell Beauty products, Having assessed recent and forecast Beauty performance, we are judgements include managements expectations for future sales As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and resulting in the recognition of a fragrance and beauty licence satisfied that management has carried out a suitable assessment and inventory liquidation plans.
raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with intangible of 70.9m, which is being amortised on a straight-line of whether any impairment indicators exist for the Beauty policy and are supportable on the basis of historical trends as well basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. licence intangible.
as managements expectations for future sales and inventory An underperformance of the Beauty business would expose the We challenged managements assessment of Beauty performance management plans.
Group to the risk of impairment of the Beauty licence, the value by comparing actual results to forecasts.
Having compared the Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures of which is 26.1m at March 2016 2015: 41.1m.
Groups future plans and forecasts for Beauty products to actual results and market conditions, we are satisfied that future performance The directors are required to apply significant judgement when Through discussions with management, we understood the We have focused on this area due to the size of the Beauty licence is expected to support the current carrying value of the licence.
determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax Groups process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the intangible and the inherent judgement involved in forming a valuation assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of related accounting policy for provisioning against tax exposures.
of the intangible, particularly regarding future sales and profit We also considered the related disclosures and are satisfied that the jurisdictions refer to notes 9, 14 and 29 to the financial statements.
forecasts in this developing part of the business.
financial statements adequately disclose the potential risk of future Based on this, we assessed the extent to which provisions are Given the inherent uncertainty over the outcome of pending tax impairment if the performance of the Beauty business does not meet supported by underlying circumstances and determined that assessments, significant judgement is applied by the directors managements expectations.
they are being made on a consistent basis to previous years.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in lease provisions We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and the financial statements, or the rationale for not recording a The Group has a material operational asset base which may be We tested managements assessment of indicators both of judgement in estimating the amount of provision required, which is provision, by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the vulnerable to impairment in the event of trading performance being impairment and of onerous lease provisions taking into consideration increased by the number of jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax below expectations.
the challenging trading conditions in some territories, and are satisfied As noted in note 29 to the financial statements, the Group is subject authorities and advisors, and by obtaining written responses that they appropriately took into account both internal and external The value-in-use models used to determine the amount of any to tax audits and claims in a number of jurisdictions, including a from the Group's external advisors on the material tax exposures.
impairment indicators, including the trading performance of each store.
impairment charge are based on assumptions including revenue dispute with the Spanish tax authorities.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements forecasts, gross and operating margins and discount rates, all of We tested the value-in-use models for assets where an impairment position in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our which are country, as well as store, specific refer to note 13 to the trigger or potential requirement for an onerous lease provision has assessment that the disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements.
Such stores may be located in both emerging been identified, including challenging management forecasts and financial statements, including whether any provisions sufficiently markets, which are typically more volatile than developed markets, other assumptions including discount rates and long term growth addressed probable penalties and interest, were appropriate and as well as more established economies such as the US, where the rates, and found that these assumptions were reasonable.
Group is working towards consolidating its position within the market.
In particular we focused on the forecasts for sales growth and are The same judgements are used in determining whether an onerous satisfied that they reflect reasonable expectations for each store, lease provision is required and in calculating the appropriate amount taking into account the maturity of each store, the market in which of the provision.
In addition, judgement is required in assessing it is located and managements specific plans for improving whether there are any alternative uses for stores which may affect store performance.
the amount of onerous lease provision required.
Given the judgement inherent in the impairment and onerous Managements assessment resulted in the recognition of a net lease provision calculations, particularly relating to revenue growth impairment charge for FY16 of 45.3m FY15: 10.8m, including assumptions, management has disclosed a sensitivity analysis 24.2m 2015: 3.9m for store impairments and 21.1m 2015: in the financial statements see note 13.
6.7m for onerous leases and nil 2015: 0.2m for intangible assets.
Having re-performed the sensitivity calculations and considered We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement involved whether any other sensitivities might be more appropriate, we in determining key assumptions such as future sales growth, profit are satisfied that the financial statements adequately disclose the margins and discount rates, and the magnitude of the assets under potential risk of future impairment if the performance of the stores with consideration and the lease obligations.
indicators of impairment do not meet managements expectations.
116 117 117 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements recognition of adjusting items and the regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying measures related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are satisfied to explain business performance, and the classification of items as that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with prior years and adjusting, especially where they recur each year.
There is a risk that adequately explained in the financial statements.
the use of such measures means that the overall presentation of We noted no instances of inappropriate or inconsistent presentation results is not fair, balanced and understandable.
of results and non-GAAP measures.
Specifically, we are satisfied that Consistent with prior years, the Group has identified two adjusting non-GAAP measures are adequately explained and reconciled to items, being Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence GAAP measures.
intangible and Put option liability finance income charge.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates across three regions and is structured across two segments, being retail wholesale and licensing.
The financial statements are a consolidation of 82 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding companies across the two segments.
Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which entities were required to report full-scope audit opinions to us having considered the relative significance of each entity to the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the overall coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated financial statements.
We identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted for 76% 2015: 78% of Group revenue and 89% 2015: 92% of Group profit before taxation.
Of these, three reporting units have been determined to be financially significant based on their contribution to Group revenue or profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to the consolidation, taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the London and Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
In addition, we performed statutory audits for many of the entities not within our Group audit scope.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We sent detailed instructions to all in scope component audit teams, which included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
Our Group engagement teams involvement also included various site visits and component auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 20 million 2015: 20 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and hence profit before taxation has been selected as the benchmark.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.5 million and 17 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
118 118 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures 2015: 0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements recognition of adjusting items and the regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying measures related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are satisfied Going concern to explain business performance, and the classification of items as that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with prior years and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 126, in relation to going concern.
adjusting, especially where they recur each year.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Specifically, we are satisfied that Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation Consistent with prior years, the Group has identified two adjusting non-GAAP measures are adequately explained and reconciled to to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the items, being Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence GAAP measures.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in How we tailored the audit scope preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because and the industry in which the Group operates.
not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements are a consolidation of 82 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding Other required reporting companies across the two segments.
Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which entities were required to report full-scope audit opinions In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the to us having considered the relative significance of each entity to the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
overall coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting These reporting units accounted for 76% 2015: 78% of Group revenue and 89% 2015: 92% of Group profit before taxation.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Of these, three reporting units have been determined to be financially significant based on their contribution to Group Information in the Annual Report is: We have no revenue or profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or the consolidation, taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion arising from this apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the on the financial statements as a whole.
course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group The statement given by the directors on page 114, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the London and Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and exceptions to report Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
In addition, we performed statutory audits for many of the entities not within our Group provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and arising from this audit scope.
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 79, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
exceptions to report reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network arising from this responsibility.
firms operating under our instruction.
We sent The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity detailed instructions to all in scope component audit teams, which included communication of the areas of focus above and of the Group other required communications.
Our Group engagement teams involvement also included various site visits and component Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in auditor working paper reviews across each of the Groups three regions, together with conference calls with the component relation to: audit teams and participation in all in scope component audit clearance meetings.
The directors confirmation on page 57 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its material to add or business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Materiality The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
material to add or These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and to draw attention to.
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect The directors explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period material to add or to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to to draw attention to.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overall Group materiality 20 million 2015: 20 million.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and hence profit before taxation has been selected as the benchmark.
the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.5 million and supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and 17 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
less than our overall Group materiality.
118 119 119 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor, for and on behalf of  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London, 17 May 2016 120 120
