Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Burberry Group plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2015 16 the Annual Report, comprise: the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework', and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
172 172 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Report on the Company financial statements Directors remuneration Our opinion Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, Burberry Group plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. specified by law are not made.
What we have audited Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit The financial statements, included within the Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2015 16 the Annual Report, comprise: Our responsibilities and those of the directors the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs explanatory information.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance statements.
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework', and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Other required reporting and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Consistency of other information from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Companies Act 2006 opinion whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the and adequately disclosed: financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary course of performing our audit: or to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of otherwise misleading.
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Other matters adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2016. received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor, for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 May 2016 172 173 173
