Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Bunzl plcs Group and Company financial statements the 'financial statements' give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 'IASB'.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Bunzl plc Annual Report the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 16m which represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation Audit scope We performed audits of the financial information of 77 components spread across 25 different countries across North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World Specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including the impairment of goodwill and customer relationships intangible assets, business combinations, defined benefit pension schemes and taxation were performed by the Group audit team centrally Areas of focus Impairment of goodwill and customer relationships intangible assets Business combinations Defined benefit pension schemes Corporate tax exposures Supplier rebate accounting purchase volume based rebates 140 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland 'ISAs UK & Ireland '.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 'areas of focus' in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of goodwill and customer relationships intangible assets Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 100 Accounting policies and pages 110 and 111 Note 9.
The Group has material goodwill balances of 1,191.5m In our testing of managements annual goodwill and customer 2015: 999.3m and customer relationships intangible assets of relationships intangible assets impairment calculations, we used 737.7m 2015: 632.7m spread across multiple geographies and valuation experts to assist our evaluation of the key assumptions relating to multiple cash generating units 'CGUs'.
In assessing whether the carrying amount of these assets has We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors cash flow been impaired, management considers forecast cash flows of forecasts by comparing the assumptions made to internal and the individual CGUs which are identified on a market sector or external data.
In particular: We focused on the CGUs with the highest goodwill and we compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest customer relationships intangible assets the most material strategic plans and found them to be consistent: being North America, Rest of Continental Europe and France as well as the CGUs where there were smaller goodwill and we determined that long term growth rates are generally customer relationships intangible asset balances but lower consistent when compared to third party nominal GDP rates: levels of headroom.
we found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based Managements impairment assessment involves significant on past and current performance and consistent with budgets: estimation, principally relating to short and long term revenue growth, future profitability and discount rates.
Due to the we challenged the discount rate used to determine the acquisitive nature of the Group and the magnitude of the present value by assessing the cost of capital for the Company aggregated related goodwill and customer relationships and comparable organisations and considered them to be intangible assets, together with the subjectivity of the principal reasonable: and assumptions, a significant amount of audit effort was required, particularly as some of these assumptions are dependent we evaluated the reduction in the number of CGUs and reviewed on economic factors and trading conditions specific to the results of management's 'gateway' test, being the impairment overseas territories.
review performed under the previous CGU definitions and noted no indicators of impairment.
Furthermore, we obtained evidence to assess adequate historical accuracy in managements forecasting process.
As described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, management concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Having ascertained the extent of changes in key assumptions either individually or collectively that would be required for goodwill and other intangible assets to be materially impaired, we considered such a change in those key assumptions to be unlikely.
141 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Business combinations Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 98 Accounting policies and pages 129 to 131 Note 24.
Given that the Group continues to make significant investment Management relies on external valuation specialists to value in acquisitions, accounting for business combinations is an area significant intangibles acquired in business combinations.
Where of focus due to the level of judgement involved.
management has relied on such specialists, we assessed their independence and competency and tested the results of their Business combinations can involve judgements in relation to the work and found no material issues.
value of assets and liabilities that are recognised on acquisition, particularly the allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill We used our own valuation experts to challenge the methodology and separately identified intangible assets.
Any misstatement and key assumptions used in determining the value of the customer made in the identification and or valuation of acquired intangibles relationships assets for the more significant acquisitions.
We gives rise to an equal, compensating misstatement in goodwill.
determined that the cash flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions such as the discount rates, growth rates, customer attrition and period for amortisation, were appropriate.
Defined benefit pension schemes Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 102 Accounting policies and pages 123 to 126 Note 20.
The Group has defined benefits pension schemes with material We used our own actuarial experts to satisfy ourselves that the schemes in the US and the UK with a net deficit of 84.1m at the assumptions used in calculating the US and UK pension scheme current year end 2015: 40.0m, which is material in the context liabilities are appropriate, including confirming that salary of the Consolidated balance sheet.
increases and mortality rate assumptions were consistent with relevant national and industry benchmarks.
We determined that Management estimation is required in relation to the the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the measurement of pension scheme obligations, and management pension scheme liabilities were consistent with our internally employs independent actuarial experts to assist it in determining developed benchmarks and, where available, with those disclosed appropriate assumptions such as inflation levels, discount rates, in the published financial statements of other companies as at salary increases and mortality rates.
In each case we considered the assumptions made by management to be reasonable in light of the available Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on evidence.
the determination of the liability and, therefore, the extent of any surplus or deficit.
Corporate tax exposures Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, page 99 Accounting policies and pages 107 and 108 Note 6.
The Group operates in a number of international territories with We discussed with management their assessment of uncertain complex taxation rules and regulations.
The interpretation of tax positions and used our taxation specialists to assist us in these complex regulations and the unknown future outcome of challenging the appropriateness of managements judgements pending judgements by the tax authorities result in the need to in relation to these positions.
These procedures assisted in our provide against a number of uncertain tax positions.
corroboration of managements position on the amount of significant tax exposures and the provisions and disclosures made We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level in the financial statements.
of estimation and judgement that is necessary in determining the provisions required, together with the importance of achieving In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we also considered adequate and clear disclosure related to judgemental tax matters.
factors such as possible penalties and interest.
Furthermore, we determined that the calculations were in line with the accounting standards and that the methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
We consider the current level of tax provision to be reasonable.
Supplier rebate accounting purchase volume based rebates Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report and page 99 Accounting policies.
We focused on this area as purchase volume based rebate income We evaluated the processes in place across the Group for the from suppliers is material to the consolidated financial statements.
recognition of purchase volume based supplier rebates and found these to be consistently applied.
We agreed the nature of a sample Given a degree of estimation is involved in accounting for purchase of rebate arrangements to contracts or other supporting agreements volume based supplier rebates, we focused our audit procedures and agreed the rates indicated in the agreements with those used on the accuracy, occurrence and cut-off of these transactions in the calculations.
We also reperformed a sample of rebate and the valuation of amounts held on the balance sheet.
calculations and assessed managements estimates of purchases.
No material exceptions were noted from this testing.
Where appropriate, we also agreed the post year end settlement of year end receivable amounts included in the opening and closing Consolidated balance sheets to bank receipts, with no material exceptions noted.
142 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
We identified one financially significant component, being North America, where a full scope audit has been performed.
In addition to this, we identified four components across Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required.
In order to satisfy the request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits on a further 72 components.
The components where we performed audit procedures covered over 95% of Group revenue, profit before taxation and total assets.
Component audits were performed to respective statutory materiality levels of the individual components and, for component teams with no statutory requirements, a materiality was allocated by the Group team.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged up to 15.0m.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by the Group audit team, who visited North America, UK, France and Australia.
Telephone discussions were also held with component auditors at these locations and with the majority of the components that the Group audit team did not visit in person.
In addition, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 16 million 2015: 15m How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before taxation Given that the Groups businesses are profit orientated and the directors use profit measures Rationale for benchmark applied to assess the performance of the business, we believe that profit before taxation provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 800,000 2015: 750,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 97 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
143 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors' report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 53, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 35 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the attention to.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material to add or to draw are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
144 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance report relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 139, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors' report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2017 145
