Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Cairn Energy PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups loss and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the group balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: the group income statement and group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the group statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLCs Cairn major activities in 2016 combined with an increasing oil price from a low base at the start of the year.
In the year, Cairn has continued to progress their development assets in the Catcher and Kraken North Sea fields towards first oil production, which is targeted for the next 12 months, and continued their exploration and appraisal programme offshore Senegal.
Away from core operations, Cairns main focus has been dealing with the continued restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India and the ongoing discussions with the Indian Tax Authorities in relation to the final assessment order received in February 2016.
Overview Overall group materiality: $24.6 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Materiality We performed the majority of audit work in the UK, with PwC Norway performing the audit work on the UK & Norway component.
The group audit team visited Norway as part of the audit process.
Our audit scope obtained coverage of over 97% of group total assets.
Audit scope Our key areas of audit focus were: Risk of impairment of exploration development assets and goodwill.
Potential impact on tax provisions of the tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited.
Areas of focus Going Concern.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as awhole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $24.6 million 2015: $23.1 million.
How we determined it 1% of Total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development Oil and Gas group that does not currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.2 million 2015: $1.15 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We reported no potential adjustments to the Audit Committee.
129 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the location of accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
For operating purposes, the group is structured around three key segments: UK & Norway, Senegal and International.
During 2016, UK & Norway has seen the majority of the development activity, with the main exploration activity occurring in Senegal.
For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 24 reporting units or components.
The majority of the finance function is based in Edinburgh, other than the UK & Norway component which is primarily accounted for in Stavanger, Norway.
Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the UK & Norway component and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team.
Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified six financially significant components, comprising a high proportion of total group assets, which required an audit of their complete financial information.
A further two components were identified as significant from a risk perspective due to the carrying value of theirexploration and development assets.
Finally, one additional component was subject to procedures at the exploration assets financial statement line item FSLI level, and one at the accounts payable FSLI level to obtain sufficient coverage.
The UK team attended an audit planning meeting in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway, and maintained contact throughout the execution and completion of the audit, including an audit clearance call involving PwC in the UK and Norway.
Our group audit approach resulted in coverage of over 97% of the consolidated total assets our key benchmark for planning and scoping our audit.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due tofraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tested managements impairment review of goodwill and capitalised exploration Risk of impairment of exploration development assets and goodwill and development costs by performing the work described below and found that all management assumptions were within a reasonable range.
The risk has remained consistent with prior year due to the current outlook for oil We read managements assessment of impairment triggers and did not identify any prices remaining low compared with recent history.
This has the potential to adversely additional triggers which had not yet been considered by management.
impact the value of exploration and development assets.
Specific work was then performed over the impairment review including: Exploration assets of $471.3m relate to costs incurred where there is expected future activity but no approved development plan at present, primarily Cairns discovery comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review models to approved offshore Senegal.
Development assets of $735.1m reflect spend to 31 December budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions for individual 2016 on Catcher and Kraken.
There has been $150.5m of exploration and $276.6m of exploration properties, which we found to be materially consistent: development additions in 2016.
Both of these asset categories require an impairment comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and operating review only if an impairment trigger is identified.
expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator estimates, which we found to be materially consistent: The goodwill balance of $118.9m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical in 2012. benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount rate As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is carried out on this balance.
and inflation against external data and recent public announcements from other Relevant indicators of impairment in the Oil & Gas industry include: oil companies.
We found certain assumptions used by Cairn, including the longunsuccessful exploration efforts: term oil price, to be at the upper end of a reasonable range, while other assumptions, sustained low oil price environment: for example the use of a 3 year forward curve, were towards the lower end of a changes to exploration plans: reasonable range: in combination, we consider the assumptions used by Cairn changes to reserves estimates: and to be reasonable and in line with other market participants: consolidated net assets being significantly more than the market capitalisation reviewing the mathematical accuracy of key formulae in the impairment models of the group.
without exception: reviewing managements sensitivity analysis and performing additional sensitivity When an impairment review and calculation is performed, there are significant analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to assess the potential impact judgements in relation to the underlying assumptions such as: of a range of possible outcomes.
For Catcher and Kraken, we determined that the long term oil price: calculation was most sensitive to assumptions relating to the oil price: and reserve estimates: assessing the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in the cash generating production volume profiles: unit and in particular given that the recoverable amount is determined based cost profiles and escalation applied: and on a fair value less costs of disposal, the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax discount rates.
related balances and agreed that while all relevant balances had been included, We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the judgements we identified one error in the allocation of tax balances which was adjusted for and assumptions management are required to make in determining the existence of by management.
impairment triggers and the amount of impairment.
After performing the testing above, we identified one exploration asset where Refer to notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.6 to the accounts the evidence of future activity was sufficiently judgemental that we proposed an immaterial adjustment which was recorded by management.
Other than this one item we concluded that no further impairment was required.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 130 In assessing the potential impact of the assessment order from the Indian tax authorities Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn we performed the following procedures.
India Limited In previous years we: understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis for any On 22 January 2014 the Group received a request for information from the Indian tax claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent: authorities in respect of amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which read correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities: seek to tax prior year transactions under legislation applied retrospectively.
At the same discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with regards time the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India.
to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents: and In February 2016, a final assessment order was received from the Indian tax authorities discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the groups legal advisers.
for an amount of $4.3 billion 290 billion INR including interest and penalties.
In the current year we have reconfirmed our understanding and performed the following Cairn are continuing to contest this order in a court of international arbitration and at this additional procedures: point, there is still no certainty over the outcome.
read correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities in Management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of an obligation arising the current year and discussed with management the advice and action taken and whether there is a need to recognise a provision or disclose a contingent liability.
as aresult: We therefore focused on this area as a result of the uncertainty and the potential discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the groups legal advisers: and material impact to the group.
agreed the calculation of the contingent liability based on prevailing exchange rates.
Refer to Note 5.5 to the financial statements.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular: managements view that no provision for tax should be made at this time: the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report: and the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future funding requirements for the Group.
We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $656.1m.
We noted that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in preparing the Going Concern financial statements, we: reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 12 months based We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase on budgets and forecasts: and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio.
understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be considered As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, there discretionary: is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have focused on considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the Cairn whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the group to continue as India investment: a going concern.
reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of the In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted above means facility available for drawdown: and the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment to fund operations.
considered potential downside upside scenarios and the resultant impact on available funds.
During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the development of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to allow them to drawdown Our conclusion on going concern is below.
Cairn are also planning to drill 2 exploration wells in UK & Norway and 2 appraisal wells in Senegal over the next 12-18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources.
We believe this risk has remained consistent from last year as the Group does not yet have revenue-producing assets and has continued to incur operating and capitalexpenditure.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 140, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group, the company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in thisrespect.
131 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 128, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable to report.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 91 to 95, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work We have no exceptions of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of thegroup Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 41 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its material to add or business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 40 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider material to add or that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group to draw attention to.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 128, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 132 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
MICHAEL TIMAR SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 7 March 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
133 Financial Statements CONTENTS 135 Group Income Statement 135 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 136 Group Balance Sheet 137 Group Statement of Cash Flows 138 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 139 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 139 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 140 1.2 Going Concern 141 Section 2 Assets and Investments: Oil and Gas Assets and Decommissioning Provisions 142 2.1 Intangible Exploration Appraisal Assets 144 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment Development Assets 146 2.3 Gain on Disposal of Oil and Gas Assets 146 2.4 Provisions Decommissioning 146 2.5 Capital Commitments 147 2.6 Intangible Assets Goodwill 148 2.7 Impairment Testing Sensitivity Analysis 149 Section 3 Assets and Investments: Financial Assets and Working Capital 149 3.1 Available-for-Sale Financial Assets 150 3.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 151 3.3 Other Receivables 151 3.4 Trade and Other Payables 152 3.5 Financial Instruments 152 3.6 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 154 Section 4 Results for the Year 154 4.1 Segmental Analysis 156 4.2 Pre-Award Costs 156 4.3 Administrative and Other Expenses 157 4.4 Employee Benefits: Staff Costs, Share-Based Payments and Directors Emoluments 159 4.5 Finance Income 160 4.6 Finance Costs 160 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 161 Section 5 Taxation 161 5.1 Tax Strategy and Governance 162 5.2 Tax Credit Charge on Loss for the Year 163 5.3 Income Tax Asset 164 5.4 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 165 5.5 Contingent Liability Indian Tax Assessment 166 Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 166 6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 167 6.2 Capital Management 167 6.3 Guarantees 168 6.4 Auditors Remuneration 168 6.5 Post Balance Sheet Events 169 Company Balance Sheet 170 Company Statement of Cash Flows 171 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 172 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 172 7.1 Basis of Preparation 172 7.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 172 7.3 Other Receivables 172 7.4 Trade and Other Payables 173 7.5 Financial Instruments 174 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries 176 7.7 Capital Management 176 7.8 Related Party Transactions Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 134
