Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit inputs to external sources and investee company audited accounts 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified and management information as applicable.
We challenged the We have audited the financial statements of Caledonia Investments plc assumptions around sustainability of earnings based on the plans of for the year ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 56 to 74.
In our opinion: the investee companies and whether these are achievable, and we obtained an understanding of existing and prospective investee the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the company cash flows to understand whether borrowings can be serviced groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 or refinancing may be required.
Where a recent transaction has been and of the groups profit for the year then ended: used to value any holding, we obtained an understanding of the the group financial statements have been properly prepared in circumstances surrounding the transaction and whether it was accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as considered to be on an arms-length basis and suitable as an input into a adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : valuation.
Our work included consideration of events which occurred subsequent to the year end up until the date of this audit report.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in We compared the investment property valuations of the directors accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and to valuations performed by the external valuer and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the valuer.
With the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the assistance of our own valuation specialist, we considered the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group appropriateness of the external and internal valuations and inherent financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assumptions by comparing the groups assumptions to externally derived data.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the For the valuation of fund interests, we obtained and agreed the latest risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit reported net asset values from the fund managers.
Our procedures were as follows: also included obtaining audited financial statements of the funds Valuation of unlisted investments 967.2m 2015 850.2m and checking the historical accuracy of the net asset values.
Risk vs 2015 Our procedures also included consideration of the appropriateness, Refer to page 32 Audit Committee report, page 60 accounting policy in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures and page 64 financial disclosures.
in note 22 in respect of unlisted investments and the effect of changing The risk one or more inputs to reasonably possible alternative valuation 58.5% 2015 50.9% of the groups total assets by value is held in assumptions.
investments where no quoted market price is available.
Unlisted Carrying value of investments listed on recognised stock exchanges investments comprise investments in equity, investment property 642.0m 2015 648.6m Risk vs 2015 and funds.
Unlisted investments are measured at fair value, which is Refer to page 33 Audit Committee report, page 60 accounting policy established in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture and page 64 financial disclosures.
Capital Valuation Guidelines by using measurements of value such as price of recent orderly transactions, earnings multiples and net assets.
The risk Investment properties are subject to annual independent valuation and The groups portfolio of listed equity investments makes up 38.3% measured accordingly.
There is a significant risk over the valuation of 2015 38.8% of the total assets by value of the group and is considered these investments and this is one of the key judgmental areas that our to be one of the key drivers of operations and performance results.
We do not consider these investments to be at high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgment because Our response they comprise liquid, quoted investments.
However, due to their Our procedures included: materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are Enquiry of management to document and assess the design and considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our implementation of the investment valuation processes and controls overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and in place.
Attending the biannual Challenge Committee meetings and all Audit Our response Committee meetings where we assessed the effectiveness of the Our procedures over the completeness, valuation and existence of the Committees challenge and approval of unlisted investment valuations.
groups listed equity investment portfolio included, but were not limited to: Assessment of investment realisations in the period, comparing actual documenting and assessing the processes in place to record investment sales proceeds to prior year-end valuations to understand the reasons transactions and to value the portfolio: for significant variances and determine whether they are indicative of agreeing the valuation of 100 percent of investments in the portfolio bias or error in the groups approach to valuations.
to externally quoted prices: and Challenging the investment manager on key judgments affecting agreeing 100 percent of investment holdings in the portfolio to investee company valuations in the context of observed industry independently received third party confirmations.
best practice and the provisions of the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
In particular, we challenged the appropriateness of the valuation basis selected as well as the underlying assumptions, such as discount factors, and the choice of benchmark for earnings multiples.
We compared key underlying financial data 54 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, our audit in our opinion: Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 16.75m adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 2015 25.1m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received group assets, of which it represents 1%, reflecting industry consensus from branches not visited by us: or levels 2015 1.5%.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the identified misstatements exceeding 0.84m 2015 1.25m in addition accounting records and returns: or to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are qualitative grounds.
not made: or The group audit team performed the audit of the group as if it was a single we have not received all the information and explanations we aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using require for our audit: or the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total group revenue, group profit before tax, and total group assets.
a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: the directors statements, set out on page 51, in relation to going the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has concern and longer-term viability: and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 28 to 30 the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
is consistent with the financial statements: and We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 28 to 30 with respect to internal control and risk management Scope of report and responsibilities systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
out on page 53, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk material to add or draw attention to in relation to: auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the companys the directors statement of risk management on pages 21 to 23, members as a body and is subject to important explanations and concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated in operation over the three years to 2019: or into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other Chartered Accountants information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency 15 Canada Square with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material London E14 5GL misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
19 May 2016 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 55 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
