Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: Capital & Counties Properties PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company Balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company Statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context Our 2016 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that Capital & Counties Properties PLCs operations were largely unchanged in nature from the previous year: and that there have been no significant changes to the valuation methodology and accounting standards relevant to the Group.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of focus was largely unchanged.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 41 million 2015: 42 million which represents 1% of total assets.
For income statement line items that are deemed to be of particular relevance, we applied a lower materiality.
Audit scope We audited the complete financial information of each of the Groups four business lines of which Covent Garden, Earls Court and Venues are financially significant.
Areas of focus Valuation of investment and development properties.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
92 92 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development properties Experience of Valuers and relevance of their work Refer to pages 64 to 66 Audit Committee Report, pages 103 to 107 Principal Accounting Policies and pages 103 to 139 notes to the We read the Valuers reports from CB Richard Ellis and Jones Lang financial statements.
We confirmed that the approaches used were consistent with the RICS guidelines and the requirements of IFRSs as adopted The valuation of the Groups investment and development properties is by the European Union.
We assessed the Valuers competence and the key component of the net asset value and underpins the Groups capabilities and read their terms of engagement with the Group, result for the year.
The result of the revaluation this year was a loss determining that there were no matters that affected their independence of 235m 2015: gain of 454m, which is accounted for within and objectivity or imposed scope limitations upon them.
Loss Gain on revaluation and sale of investment and development property and is a significant component of the result for the year.
Data provided to the Valuers The Groups property portfolios, which comprise investment property For investment and development properties, we sample tested including retail, food and beverage, commercial, residential and data provided to the Valuers by management and found that it was exhibition space as well as development property located in central consistent with the information we audited.
This data included tenancy London are not uniform in nature.
Therefore, there are a number of schedules, capital expenditure details, cost schedules and square different assumptions made by the Groups third party valuers, Jones footage details which we agreed back to appropriate supporting Lang LaSalle and CB Richard Ellis the Valuers, in determining documentation.
For development properties, we agreed that the fair value: planned schemes being valued were consistent with the actual planned developments and, where appropriate, had achieved Investment properties The valuation of investment properties planning consents.
predominantly Covent Garden is inherently subjective, due principally to the individual nature of each property, which greatly Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers influences the future rental it is expected to generate.
The assumptions We met with the Valuers independently of management and gained on which the property values are based are influenced by tenure and an understanding of the valuation methods and assumptions used.
We tenancy details for each property, prevailing market yields and the compared the movement in capital values over the period with market estimated rental value of each property.
sector benchmarks to help identify significant changes in assumptions.
The nature of assumptions used varied across the portfolio, depending Development properties The valuation of development property on the nature of each property but they included estimated capital predominantly Earls Court is also inherently subjective.
Development values, investment yields, estimated rental values, construction costs properties are valued using the residual appraisal method i. e. by and developers margins.
In each of these areas, and on a sample estimating the fair value of the completed project using either a sales basis, we compared the estimates and assumptions used by the Valuers comparison or income capitalisation method less estimated costs to against our own expectations, using evidence of comparable market completion and market based profit margin providing a return on transactions.
Where we identified estimates and assumptions that were development risk.
Macro-economic factors and uncertain market outside the typical ranges used, we discussed these with the Valuers to conditions have had an adverse impact on the valuation of understand the rationale and then assessed, based on all the available development property.
evidence and our experience in this sector, whether the use of the The fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property estimate or assumption was justified.
valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement, warrants specific audit focus on this area.
Our testing which involved the use of our internal real estate valuation specialists, qualified chartered surveyors with deep market knowledge, The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, in accordance with the indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in RICS Valuation Professional Standards RICS.
the context of the Groups property portfolio and reflected the circumstances of the market in the year.
Taxation Refer to pages 64 to 66 Audit Committee Report, pages 103 to 107 We assessed the principal assumptions and judgements made in Principal Accounting Policies and pages 103 to 139 notes to the arriving at the current and deferred tax position by using our experience financial statements.
of similar matters in the industry.
Tax is a specific risk for the Group due to the degree of judgement We used our tax specialists to evaluate tax provisions and involved in some of the ongoing activities of the Group and the wider potential exposures as at 31 December 2016, challenging the Group restructuring.
This gives rise to material tax considerations on the Groups assumptions and judgements through our knowledge of the calculation, recognition, and classification of current and deferred tax tax circumstances and by reading relevant correspondence between balances from both a tax compliance and accounting perspective.
the Group and Her Majestys Revenue & Customs and the Groups external tax advisors.
Judgements are made by management to arrive at the current and deferred tax position.
These judgements include the impact of the We did not identify any matters that the Directors have not adequately transfer of investment properties and the Group holding structure.
reflected in their calculation of the necessary current and deferred tax provisions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four business lines, Covent Garden, Earls Court Properties including the Lillie Square development joint venture, Venues and Other.
The Group engagement team audited all business lines except Venues a significant component, where the audit procedures were performed by a component PwC engagement team.
The Group team issued the Venues audit team with detailed instructions that explained the work that the Venues audit team needed to perform and highlighted, in particular, the areas of focus insofar as they were relevant to the Venues business line.
Throughout the audit, the Group team communicated with the Venues team, and attended relevant meetings and reviewed the component teams electronic audit working papers, to ensure that we obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to form a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
com 93 93 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 41 million 2015: 42 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark The key measure of the Groups performance is the valuation of investment and development properties and applied the balance sheet as a whole.
Given this, consistent with the prior year, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition to overall Group materiality, a specific materiality was also applied to certain areas of the income statement.
In 2016, we refined our approach to specific materiality to align with the metrics in the income statement that we believe are of particular interest to the members and determined those metrics to be Net rental income, Loss on revaluation and sale of investment and development property and Net finance costs.
In order to reflect their specific characteristics, we applied materiality levels of 10% of the respective amounts of these line items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2015: 2 million on balance sheet items as well as misstatements below that amount based on a proportionate value of the relevant materiality figures for income statement line items and other matters that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 58 to 63 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 58 to 63 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
94 94 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 91, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 65, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 14 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 17 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
com 95 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital & Counties Properties PLC continued RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 February 2017 a The maintenance and integrity of the Capital & Counties Properties PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
96 96 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016
