165 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAPITA PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 106163 and 171188.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Group financial statements 12m 2015: 18m as a whole 4.0% 2015: 4.6% of normalised Group profit before tax Coverage 82% of total Group revenue 2015: 80% 83% of total profits and losses before tax 2015: 76% 93% of total Group assets 2015: 96% Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 Recurring risks Revenue and profit recognition K Carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill K Items disclosed as non-underlying K Provisions and contingent liabilities K Acquisition accounting L Pensions Q New risks Going Concern In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit signicance, were as follows: The Risk Our Response Going Concern Our audit procedures included the following: Refer to page 81 Audit and Risk Committee Report, and page 111 accounting We re-performed calculations, for 31 December 2016, 30 June 2017 and policy note 2 b.
31 December 2017, made for the Groups covenant statements to confirm We have assessed that this risk has increased in the current year as a result mathematical accuracy: of the reduced level of reported profits combined with the net debt of the We challenged any adjustments made to EBITDA in the covenant calculations, Group at the year-end.
This places increased pressure on financial covenant considering the appropriateness compared to the loan agreements and accepted compliance at the year-end and in the going concern forecast period.
and historical practice with the current lenders: The Group has 1.8 billion of net debt as at 31 December 2016 including We tested the integrity of the cash ow projections and challenged the committed bank facilities and private placements which are subject to appropriateness of key assumptions used in preparing those projections including financial covenants.
These covenants include a restriction on the ratio of the forecast cash collection rates and the 2017 Business Plan.
We evaluated these adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
See page 111 for further details of projections and assumptions by reference to our knowledge of the business and the requirements.
general market conditions and assessed the potential risk of management bias: Any breach of these financial covenants will require a waiver from the lenders, We assessed the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by management and which brings into question the future availability of existing and future the review and challenge by management of the current forecasts: funding, and related charges, and could impact the going concern basis upon which these financial statements have been prepared.
The Group applied sensitivities to its cash ow forecasts, and considered the impact of these sensitivities on covenant compliance and available headroom.
Forecast covenant compliance is a judgemental area as it is based upon We challenged the level of sensitivities applied for reasonableness and we forecast cash collection rates and performance against the 2017 Business evaluated whether the Directors plans to alleviate the downside risk evident Plan.
from these scenarios were feasible in the circumstances: In addition there is judgement over what adjustments should be made to We evaluated the Groups analysis of non-recourse finance arrangements at the calculate the adjusted EBITDA gure used in the covenant calculation.
year-end, considering the impact of these arrangements on the available cash As set out in note 26 to the financial statements the Group also manages its position at the year-end: and cash ow and working capital through the use of certain non-recourse finance We considered whether the Groups disclosures in relation to its liquidity and arrangements that improve the net debt position on a short-term basis.
capital resources were complete, represented the position of the Group at the date of approval of the financial statements, and included the Directors key considerations in deciding to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
We also considered the adequacy of the extent of disclosure around the uncertainty affecting the going concern assumption.
166 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAPITA PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Risk Our Response Revenue and profit recognition including onerous contract provisioning Our audit procedures included testing the controls over the monitoring of and recoverability of assets capitalised in respect of the Groups contract performance and costs.
These controls include the review of contract contracting activities performance at monthly operating board review meetings, where divisional management present details of performance and business developments to Revenue 4,909.2 million 2015: 4,836.9 million : Executive members of the Group Board.
profit before tax 74.8million 2015: 112.1 million We selected contracts for testing based on quantitative factors for example, Refer to page 81 Audit and Risk Committee Report, and page 112 those with the greatest impact on the Groups financial results and qualitative accounting policy notes 2 e and 2 f. factors for example, new long-term contracts entered into during the year, where specic delivery issues have arisen, or where the payment prole may not reect Group revenue is split between those contracts that are transactional in the timing of revenue recognition.
Our audit procedures included the following: nature, that require limited judgement, and those that relate to a contracting environment, typically over multiple years long-term contracts.
We obtained and inspected the contractual agreements to understand the contract terms and conditions that underpin the revenue and the profit For the long-term contracts, the contractual arrangements that underpin recognition assumptions: the measurement of revenue in the period can be complex, with significant judgements involved in the assessment of current and future financial We assessed, through discussion with the Directors and inspection of performance which are relevant to the application of long-term contract correspondence with customers, the range of judgements regarding the accounting principles.
appropriate timing of the revenue recognition, including the allocation of revenue to separately identiable components within a contractual arrangement: We have assessed that this risk has increased during the year because of the deteriorating performance of certain contracts, increasing the pressure on the We discussed the contract forecasts with divisional and Group management to Groups performance.
understand their basis for recognition and, where appropriate, we compared the assumptions underpinning the forecasts to contract terms and or correspondence Judgements impacting the recognition of revenue and resulting profits with customers, particularly on those where there are long-term contract include, amongst others, those over: arrangements.
Where the contract negotiations are ongoing we discussed the The interpretation of contract terms and conditions: current status with those involved in the negotiations: The assessment of the stage of completion, and costs to complete, on We compared the contract forecasts to actual results to assess the performance long-term contract arrangements: of the contract and the historical accuracy of the forecasting: The allocation of revenue to separately identiable components within a We challenged the assumptions within the business plans and lifetime contractual arrangement: and assessments produced by management, ensuring that onerous contracts have been recognised appropriately, particularly on contracts that have had a poor The consideration of onerous contract conditions and associated performance in the current year: loss provisions.
In determining whether onerous contract provisions should be recorded, we assessed contract profitability forecasts by analysing historic performance relative to contractual commitments over its full term.
This included challenging the Directors assumptions on the future costs including projected savings and the actions required to achieve these: and For contracts where significant adjustments to asset carrying values or onerous contract provisions have been recognised, or released during the year, we have assessed whether the resultant charges or income were a change of estimate arising from new circumstances in the year or whether they represented the correction of a prior period error.
In respect of specic long-term contracting activities, and more broadly over We obtained a breakdown of assets capitalised at 31 December 2016.
We selected IT enabled technologies supporting the Groups various market offerings, a sample of these assets, including those associated with the contract selection amounts are capitalised in the balance sheet in either PPE or intangibles.
with other contract related assets, such as accrued income and accounts For each of the assets sampled we obtained third party support, or for internally receivable, these need to be considered in the overall contract profitability generated time, the relevant timesheet records, to support the basis of assessments including onerous contract provisions.
However, we also capitalisation and to ensure these are directly attributable to the asset.
We assess consider the risk that the amounts recognised are not directly attributable the recoverability of the assets against future contract profitability.
to the relevant asset, do not meet the criteria for capitalisation or are not expected to be recovered.
As such there is a risk that costs that have been capitalised should have been expensed in the period.
Certain contracts may show marginal lifetime recovery assessments and judgement is therefore required to ascertain whether economic benets that ow from the contracts are sufficient to recover the assets.
In 2016 there is a key judgement in respect of the treatment and disclosure of We challenged managements assessment to treat as a sale and operating the profits arising on a significant sale and leaseback transaction.
The risk is leaseback, rather than a finance lease.
We challenged the fair values of assets that the accounting judgement is inappropriate and a finance lease should be acquired and received through a review of the contracts with the support of our recognised and or the profit recognised on the sale is overstated.
See notes own property specialists.
We ensured that adequate and appropriate disclosures 2 and 7 of the financial statements for further details of the transaction and have been included in the financial statements, including the resulting profit, as accounting judgements involved.
167 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAPITA PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Risk Our Response Carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill arising on business Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the Groups impairment combinations assessment over the carrying value of intangible assets, including goodwill, and performing the following procedures: 2,589.6 million 2015: 2,659.8 million We compared the total amount of discounted cash ows as per the Groups Refer to page 82 Audit and Risk Committee Report, pages 115116 calculations to the Groups market capitalisation.
We assessed the rationale for accounting policy notes 2 j and 2 k and pages 134135 financial the difference at the year-end with the support of our own valuation specialists: disclosures in notes 14 and 15.
We tested the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash ow model: We consider the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment to be a significant audit risk because of the We assessed the appropriateness of any changes in the composition of cash inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash generating units with reference to our understanding of the business: ows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability.
We consider We compared the cash ows used in the impairment model to the output of the key inputs into the impairment model to be the approved business plans the Groups budgeting process and against the understanding we obtained and assumptions for the growth and discount rates.
about the business areas through our audit, and assessed if these cash ows The risk in the year has increased given the underperformance of certain were reasonable: divisions against prior year business plans and the deterioration in the Groups We assessed the historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the Groups market capitalisation.
impairment model by considering actual performance against prior year budgets: In light of the underperformance in the year we used external data and our own internal valuation specialists to evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for growth and discount rates: We performed sensitivity and break-even analyses for the key inputs and assumptions, and identied those cash-generating units we consider most sensitive to impairment: and We evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures related to the estimation uncertainty, judgements made and assumptions over the recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, in particular ensuring that the sensitivity disclosures in note 15 of the financial statements reected the current position.
Our audit procedures included the following: Non-underlying profit loss before tax on business disposals 2.9 million We inspected and challenged the nature and amounts of the items included profit 2015: 164.4 million loss : and within non-underlying and agreed to supporting documentation and to third party correspondence where appropriate: Non-underlying loss before tax on other items 403.4 million 2015: 309.0 million We considered whether there were any items included in the underlying results that would be more appropriately classied as non-underlying and vice versa: Refer to page 82 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 110 accounting policy note 2 and pages 120124 and 128 financial disclosures in As part of this consideration we assessed the consistency of application of notes 4, 5 and 7. the Groups accounting policy for the classication of non-underlying items year-on-year and that the policy and rationale for respective disclosure is The Group separately presents certain income and expenditure as nonadequately disclosed: underlying on the face of the income statement.
Its financial highlights and commentary refers to underlying measures as well as those derived on We assessed whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly an adopted IFRS basis.
The reasoning behind this presentation is set out in and accurately described and consistently applied and that reconciliations to the notes 2, 5 and 7 to the financial statements.
Adopted IFRS position are shown with sufficient prominence in the annual report: Non-underlying items are not dened by IFRSs and therefore judgement is Given the importance of the covenant calculation in respect of going concern, required by the Directors to identify such items as non-underlying and to we assessed the consistency of the denition of underlying earnings that is used maintain the comparability of results with previous years and in accordance in the calculation of the covenants and that the disclosures are adequate in with the Groups accounting policy.
As such there is a risk of management this regard: bias.
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of material nonWe communicated our consideration on the classication of underlying and underlying earnings may distort the readers view of the financial result in non-underlying to the Audit and Risk Committee to ensure an informed debate the year.
on the Boards assessment of the selection and presentation of non-underlying items: and We examined the use of underlying measures in the front half of the annual report and considered this against applicable guidelines.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Our audit procedures included the following: 160.7 million 2015: 118.4 million We enquired of the Directors and inspected board minutes for actual and potential claims arising in the year, and challenged whether provisions are Refer to page 83 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 116 accounting required for these claims: policy note 2 q and pages 144 and 157 financial disclosures in notes 25 and 31.
We obtained an understanding of existing claims and litigations and the Directors assessment regarding the likelihood of the existence of obligations, and the basis significant judgment is required to assess whether actual or potential claims, used to measure the provisions: litigation and fines arising from regulatory oversight should be recognised as provisions within the financial statements or warrant disclosing as contingent We compared the Directors estimate of the risk and impact of these claims and liabilities.
litigations to third party evidence, where available: The determination and valuation of these provisions is judgemental by their In respect of open matters of claims and litigations, where appropriate, we nature and there is a risk that the estimate is incorrect and the provision is had discussions with the Groups external legal advisors in respect of the materially misstated.
reasonableness of the estimated liability: At 31 December 2016, the Group has recognised a provision for 49.4 We assessed whether the restructuring provisions recognised at 31 December million of restructuring and reorganisation charges relating to the major 2016 met the recognition requirements, in particular that sufficient restructuring programme announced in November 2016.
We have assessed announcements had been made to the employees affected to set a valid that the risk has increased in the current year as a result of the complexity expectation: and in applying the recognition criteria to the restructuring activities in order to We evaluated the adequacy of the Groups provisions and contingent liability determine the provisions recorded at the year-end.
disclosures in the accounts in accordance with accounting standards, in particular Where the impact of possible and present obligations is not probable or not the disclosure of the estimation uncertainty and the quantication of that reliably measurable, and thus no provision is recorded, failure to adequately uncertainty where appropriate.
disclose the nature of these circumstances within the financial statements may distort the readers view as to the potential risks faced by the Group.
168 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAPITA PLC ONLY CONTINUED The Risk Our Response Acquisition accounting Our audit procedures included selecting a sample of acquisitions made during the year, for further investigation, based on quantitative and qualitative factors.
The Total fair value to Group recognised on acquisition 102.3 million 2015: acquisitions selected included those acquisitions with the greatest impact on the 417.2 million Groups financial results, and those containing the greatest degree of judgement.
For each of these acquisitions: Refer to page 83 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 115 accounting policy note 2 j and pages 138140 financial disclosures in note 17.
We challenged, with the support of our own valuation specialists, the key assumptions used by the Group to determine fair values of assets and During the year the Group acquired businesses for a total consideration of liabilities acquired: 102.3 million 2015: 417.2 million.
We discussed these assumptions with the Directors and corroborated the The Directors have calculated the fair value of the assets and liabilities explanations provided by comparing them to market data, our past experience of acquired.
We consider that these calculations require judgement and contain similar transactions, and the Groups business plan supporting the acquisition: significant estimation uncertainty, and therefore we consider this area to be a significant audit risk.
However, given the reduction in the overall level of Where available, we compared the amounts recognised to supporting acquisitions compared with the prior year we consider that the overall risk external documentation: has reduced.
We assessed the appropriateness of the accounting for significant fair value adjustments, including those in the measurement period, with reference to the acquisition accounting standard, and considered the presentation and disclosure of material adjustments in the financial statements: and We evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure of acquisitions in the annual report and financial statements.
Pensions Our audit procedures included the following: 1,454.9 million liability 2015: 1,143.5 million liability We challenged the key assumptions applied in determining the Groups dened benefit obligation, being the discount rate, ination rate and mortality life Refer to page 83 Audit and Risk Committee Report, page 117 accounting expectancy, with the support of our own actuarial specialists.
This included a policy note 2 s and pages 158162 financial disclosures in note 32. comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data: and significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups dened benefit pension We evaluated the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity schemes and small changes in assumptions and estimates used to value the of the deficit to these assumptions.
Groups pension obligation before deducting scheme assets would have a significant effect on the Groups net pension deficit.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 12.0 million 2015: 18.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before tax of 302.8 million 2015: 393.8 million, of which it represents 4.0% 2015: 4.6%.
In order to set this benchmark we consider the nature of items included within non-underlying earnings.
Group reported profit before tax is 74.8 million 2015: 112.1 million.
We add back certain non-underlying items including the non-trading business exit disposal income expense 2.7 million 2015: 136.9 million note 4 : profits losses on business disposals 0.1 million 2015: 26.3 million note 4 : impairments of contract related assets 58.3 million 2015: 76.7 million note 5 : impairment charges against goodwill and acquired intangibles 81.3 million 2015: 28.3 million note 5 : restructuring costs of 59.4 million 2015: nil note 5 : the asset services settlement provision 13.4 million 2015: 17.2 million note 5 : income arising from The Co-operative Bank contract dispute 18.4 million 2015: nil note 5 : and net gain arising on the Xchanging transaction nil 2015: 3.7 million.
Total adjustments to reported profit before tax amount to 228.0 million 2015: 281.7 million resulting in a normalised Group profit before tax for materiality purposes of 302.8 million 2015: 393.8 million.
We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identied misstatements with a profit impact in excess of 0.6 million 2015: 0.9 million, in addition to other identied misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at 36 key reporting components in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Germany, Ireland and Guernsey and by the Group audit team over 2 key components in the United Kingdom.
The Group audit team, with the assistance of the component auditors where appropriate, performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
These procedures covered approximately 81.7% of total Group revenue: 82.5% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax: and 92.6% of total Group assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team approved the component materiality levels, Assets 93% 7% which ranged from 0.2 million to 7.8 million 2015: 0.3 million to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk prole of the profit before tax 83% 17% Group across the components.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
Revenue 82% 18% These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be Audits for Group reporting purposes reported back to the Group audit team.
Telephone conference meetings Analysis at Group level were held with all component auditors throughout the audit.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
169 Capita plc Strategic report Governance A Acco ccou un nt ts s INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CAPITA PLC ONLY CONTINUED 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodied In our opinion: The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the strategic report and the Directors report: We have not identied material misstatements in those reports: and In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The Directors statement of longer-term viability on page 55, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 2019: or The disclosures in note 2 b of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or The Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: The Directors statements, set out on pages 73 and 55, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 67 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Sean McCallion Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 1 March 2017
