Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only Our response We evaluated the controls designed and implemented Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit by the Group to monitor amounts owed on service and construction contracts, and in particular, the claims and variation elements across the 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied Group.
We attended a sample of, and inspected minutes from all, the Major We have audited the Group financial statements of Carillion plc for the year Projects Committee meetings, which form a key part of the Groups risk ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the Group consolidated income process to fully challenge, at an executive level, both new tenders and statement, the Group consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, contract bids and ongoing performance on existing contracts.
We then theGroup consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group selected a sample of contracts using a variety of quantitative and qualitative consolidated and Parent Company statement of changes in equity, the Group factors in order to assess and challenge the most significant and more consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
In our opinion: complex contract positions.
In this area our procedures, which varied by contract, included: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the considering the financial performance of the selected contracts against Groups profit for the year then ended: budget and historical trends to assess the historical accuracy of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in judgement in the recognition of claims and variations as well as the final accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted out-turn on contracts: by the European Union: inspecting the contracts for key clauses, identifying relevant contractual the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared mechanisms such as pain gain shares, liquidated damages and success inaccordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS101 Reduced fees and considered their impact on the completeness and existence of Disclosure Framework: and the amounts recognised in the financial statements: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the completing a number of site visits across the UK, Middle East and Canada, requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group meeting local management, physically inspecting the stage of completion financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of individual projects and identifying areas of complexity through observation and discussion with site personnel: 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement on the basis of detailed position papers obtained from the Group and conversations with senior operational, commercial and financial In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks management, challenging the Groups estimates and judgements in of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in respect of forecast construction contract out-turn, quantum and decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: allocation of contingencies, settlements and the recoverability of contract balances with reference to our own assessments based on historical Recognition of contract revenue, margin, and related outcomes, third party evidence and industry norms: receivables and liabilities: Risk vs 2015: assessing the profile of aged work in progress on service contracts and challenging aged amounts for recoverability with a focus on claims and Refer to page 62 Report of the Audit Committee, page 97 note 1.
Significant variations recognised on individual contracts: accounting policies Revenue recognition and page 132 note 31.
Accounting agreeing the above to correspondence and meeting minutes with estimates and judgements Revenue recognition.
customers around variations and claims, corroborating with The risk The Group recognises revenue based on the stage of assessments of these positions from the Groups legal or technical completion of construction contracts by reference to the proportion of experts, if applicable: and costs incurred to the balance sheet date compared with the estimated final we also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of costs of the contract at completion and therefore relies on estimates in these estimates and judgements.
relation to the final out-turn of costs on each contract.
Changes to these estimates could give rise to material variances in the amount of revenue Other revenue judgements revenue 20.0 million and margin recognised.
Contingencies may also be included in these 2015: Nil New risk estimates of cost to take account of specific risks, or claims against the Group, arising within each contract.
These contingencies are reviewed by Refer to page 100 note 2 Segments and page 132 note 31 accounting the Group on a regular basis throughout the contract life and adjusted judgements and estimates.
Finally, variations and claims are recognised on a The risk The licensing agreement secured in 2016 was entered into at contract-by-contract basis, both on service and construction contracts, or around the same time and with the same counterparty to a series of where the Group believes the rights and obligations exist given the contracts that extended the scope of the services provided by the Groups progress of negotiations.
There is therefore a high degree of judgement in: back-office outsourcing provider as described in the Strategic report on assessing the level of the cost contingencies to recognise: appropriately page 39.
The income earned from this transaction was recognised recognising variations and claims: and estimating the revenue recognised immediately in revenue.
The Groups rationale for these judgements is set by the Group based on the projected final out-turn on contracts.
out in the accounting estimates and judgements note 31.
The risk is that: 1 the agreements are not independent, and that therefore the income should be spread over the term of the outsourcing contract: 2 there are ongoing obligations under the licencing agreement which indicate the income should be spread over some other period: and, or 3 the income earned should be recognised as other income, rather than revenue.
Our response We first considered whether the licensing agreement could be deemed independent from extension to the scope of services provided by the Groups outsourcing provider by examining the terms of the respective contracts and meeting with the Groups legal advisors.
Further, we sought to understand the cost of each of the respective elements and consider the fair value of each element, which included meeting with both the Groups third party expert and legal advisors to understand their valuation and benchmarking process for the outsourcing arrangements, the experts historical experience and challenging the assumptions used.
86 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | We secondly considered whether there were any other ongoing 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the obligations arising from the licence agreement which may indicate the scope of our audit income should be deferred.
We assessed the nature and scope of the Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at assets under licence, and examined the contractual agreements for 8.0 million 2015: 8.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark ongoing arrangements or obligations.
of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude the 1.1 million of We thirdly considered whether the licence income met the Groups acquisition costs set out in note 4 which equates to 147.8 million accounting policy requirements to be deemed revenue see accounting representing 5.4 per cent 2015: 5.1 per cent.
policies note 1 by comparing to similar historical transactions and the We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified requirements of the accounting standards.
misstatements exceeding 0.4 million 2015: 0.4 million in addition to other We finally considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure of these identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
transactions, both in the front end and the notes to these financial statements.
Of the Groups 10 2015: 10 reporting components, we subjected five 2015: five to audits for Group reporting purposes and three 2015: three to Carrying value of goodwill 1,571.0 million specified risk-focused audit procedures scoping unchanged from 2015.
2015: 1,544.3 million Risk vs 2015: The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an Refer to page 62 Report of the Audit Committee, page 96 note 1. audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks Significant accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets and that needed to be addressed.
The components, subjected to audits for Group reporting purposes The risk The Groups balance sheet includes goodwill, principally arising accounted for 87 per cent of Group revenue 2015: 92 per cent, 89 per cent from historical acquisitions in the UK.
The risk is that the goodwill allocated of Group profit before tax 2015: 80 per cent and 80 per cent of Group total to cash generating units CGU is not recoverable and should be impaired.
The components subjected to specified riskDue to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting focused audit procedures accounted for eight per cent 2015: three per cent future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, of Group revenue, 11 per cent of Group profit before tax 2015: 13 per cent this is one of the key judgemental areas for our audit.
and 14 per cent of Group total net assets 2015: 15 per cent.
The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment of goodwill For the remaining components, we performed analysis at a Group level to using a value-in-use model which is based on the net present value of the re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material forecast earnings of the cash-generating unit value-in-use.
This is misstatement within these.
calculated using certain assumptions around discount rates, growth rates The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant and cash flow forecasts.
areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the Given the relative size of the goodwill in the Group balance sheet, information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the particularly in the UK Services CGU, relatively small changes in these component materialities, which ranged from 6.0 million to 6.5 million assumptions could give rise to material changes in the assessment of the 2015: 6.0 million to 6.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk carrying value of goodwill.
profile of the Group across the components.
The work on three of the five 2015: three of the eight components was performed by component Our response Our procedures included critically assessing the key auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
assumptions applied by the Group in determining the recoverable amounts of each CGU.
In particular, we: The Group audit team visited three 2015: five component locations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United Arab Emirates 2015: in the United considered the consistency and appropriateness of the allocation of Kingdom, Canada, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman.
Video and businesses and related goodwill balances into CGUs: telephone conference meetings were also held with these component considered the underlying assumptions in determining the cash flows auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
and growth assumptions applied with reference to historical forecasting At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team accuracy and wider macro environment conditions: were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the discount rates audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
used by the Group, including comparisons with external data sources: performed our own sensitivity analysis, including a reasonably possible 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the reduction in assumed growth rates and cash flows to identify areas to Companies Act 2006 is unmodied focus our procedures on and, sensitised the total discounted cash flows of the Group against the notional enterprise value of the group: and In our opinion: also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc only continued Scope and responsibilities 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out onpage 85, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A material to add or draw attention to in relation to: description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the the Directors viability statement on page 31, concerning the principal Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our years to 2019: or responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk the disclosures in note 1.
Significant accounting policies basis of auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in preparation of the financial statements concerning the use of the going full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this concern basis of accounting.
report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency Peter Meehan Senior Statutory Auditor with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants One Snowhill In particular, we are required to report to you if: Snow Hill Queensway we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we Birmingham acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider B4 6GH that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 1 March 2017 for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, in relation to going concern page 47 and longer-term viability page 31 : and the part of the Corporate Governance statement on pages 53 to 57 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
88 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
