115 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Centamin plc Report on the group financial statements Our audit approach The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Our opinion Context We conducted our audit in accordance with In our opinion, Centamin plcs Centamin plc is listed on the London Stock International Standards on Auditing UK and group financial statements the Exchange and its principal operation is Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
financial statements : the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt.
Production continues to increase and this together We designed our audit by determining give a true and fair view of the state of with the positive impact on profitability materiality and assessing the risks of material the groups affairs as at 31 December of strong gold prices set the context misstatement in the financial statements.
In 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for for our audit in 2016.
In addition to the particular, we looked at where the directors the year then ended: operation of Sukari the group continues its made subjective judgments, for example in have been properly prepared in exploration programme in Burkina Faso and respect of significant accounting estimates accordance with International Financial Cte dIvoire.
that involved making assumptions and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Overview considering future events that are inherently by the European Union: and uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also Overall group materiality: $6.8 million have been prepared in accordance with addressed the risk of management override which represents 5% of three-year the requirements of the Companies of internal controls, including evaluating average profit before tax, after Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the whether there was evidence of bias by the exceptional items 2015: $5.4 million.
directors that represented a risk of material The higher materiality reflects the higher What we have audited misstatement due to fraud.
The financial statements, included within the We focused our audit procedures on the The risks of material misstatement that had annual report, comprise: Sukari Gold Mine, as well as performing the greatest effect on our audit, including the consolidated statement of financial audit procedures over the groups the allocation of our resources and effort, position as at 31 December 2016: significant exploration and corporate are identified as areas of focus in the the consolidated statement of operations.
Two components were table on page 116.
We have also set out comprehensive income for the year subject to an audit of their complete how we tailored our audit to address these then ended: financial information whilst a further four specific areas in order to provide an opinion were subject to specific audit procedures on the financial statements as a whole, the consolidated statement of cash flows over material balances.
Audit procedures and any comments we make on the results for the year then ended: were performed in Egypt and Jersey.
of our procedures should be read in this the consolidated statement of changes All audit work on the areas of context.
This is not a complete list of all risks in equity for the year then ended: and focus was performed by the group identified by our audit.
the notes to the financial statements, engagement team.
Changes in areas of focus which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other In 2016, one addition was made to explanatory information.
our areas of focus whilst one other was removed.
Amounts due to the government The financial reporting framework that has with respect to operating and exploration been applied in the preparation of the properties was added this year.
With the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by commencement of profit share payments the European Union, and applicable law.
to the Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority EMRA management were required to use judgment in their determination of the amount of profit share payable for the period.
Taxation was removed as an area of focus in 2016 as the material tax liability which arose in the prior period was event driven and did not reoccur.
As a result there were no material tax balances in the current period.
116 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Centamin plc AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in Egypt We discussed the legal case with the groups legal team, and concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession Agreement considered appropriate documentation to understand the legal position and the basis of the directors assessment of the outcome Refer to page 143 note 21 to the financial statements and pages 34 of the court case.
We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of internal The group is in the process of appealing a ruling passed by the and external legal counsel by considering professional qualifications, Egyptian Administrative Court in October 2012.
If the ruling is upheld, fee arrangements and other relevant factors.
These procedures the groups operations at the Sukari Gold Mine will be significantly satisfied us that internal and external legal counsel were competent, reduced and there is, therefore, a risk of material impairment in capable and objective.
property, plant and equipment at Sukari, which had a carrying value of $867.7 million at 31 December 2016.
We also obtained and read a copy of the Concession Agreement, as signed by the relevant parties.
The outcome of this case is subject to significant uncertainty due to ongoing political, social and economic volatility in Egypt.
The directors assessed that the groups case has strong legal merit and will ultimately be successful.
Based on our work, we determined that the directors had reflected all available information in their assessment.
We tested the disclosures in note 21 to the financial statements and determined that they were consistent with the requirements of IFRS and the results of our audit work.
The claim before the Administrative Court We discussed the legal fuel subsidy cases with the groups legal team, concerning diesel fuel disputes and considered appropriate documentation to understand the legal position and to evaluate the directors assessment of the outcome of Refer to page 143 note 21 to the financial statements and pages 34 the case.
We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of internal The group is involved in an ongoing legal case relating to historical and external counsel, by considering professional qualifications, fee and current fuel subsidies.
The potential amount that could be arrangements and other relevant factors.
These procedures satisfied recouped by the group relating to the current subsidy case is us internal and external legal counsel were competent, capable $231.2 million and the potential amount that the group could have to and objective.
pay if they lose the historical case is EGP403 million approximately US$21.8 million at current exchange rates.
The results of the procedures we performed, as described above, supported the directors accounting treatment, under which no liability To date, the group has not provided for the historical case, based on was recognised in respect of the historical case and no asset was internal and external assessments of the merits of the case, but has recognised in respect of the current subsidy case.
made disclosure of a contingent liability.
We considered whether any new factors had arisen this year In 2016, the group has disclosed the impact of the current subsidy that would impact the appropriateness of continuing to disclose this case, being the difference between international and subsidised diesel item as exceptional.
There were no new developments of this nature.
price that has impacted the groups results for the year, in note 21 to the financial statements.
No contingent asset has been recognised.
We also considered the sufficiency of the disclosure regarding the case and found that it was consistent with the requirements of IFRS and gave a balanced description of the case.
Amounts due to the government with respect to With regards to amounts owed to EMRA, we held discussions with operating and exploration properties management regarding their calculation of the amount due and obtained the calculation.
Refer to page 135 note 7 to the financial statements and pages 34 and 35 Principal risks.
We agreed the amounts in the calculation to source documentation and where elements of the calculation were subject to uncertainty, The group operates across a number of jurisdictions and, like most we tested managements assessment of the probable amount of the groups, is subject to periodic challenges by the government on liability to satisfy ourselves that amounts due to government had amounts owed with respect to the Sukari operations in Egypt and the been appropriately recorded.
Where management had obtained exploration properties in West Africa.
independent legal or expert advice, we obtained that advice and The amounts owed to EMRA with respect to the profit sharing evaluated the competency of the experts involved to assess the arrangement under the Concession Agreement are based on key assumptions.
managements best judgment of the probable amount of the profit We also performed procedures to ensure the completeness share liability.
of amounts due to government, with no material unrecorded As at 31 December 2016 the group has an expense of $51.3 million amounts identified.
and a net payable receivable of $4 million as the result of profit sharing and cost recovery mechanisms under the Concession Agreement, which we considered merited our focus.
Amounts owed to the government in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire were not material during the year: however the risk of uncertainty due to payments owed to the government will increase as exploration continues.
117 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements We tailored the scope of our audit to The scope of our audit was influenced identified during our audit above $338,000 ensure that we performed enough work to by our application of materiality.
We 2015: $270,000 as well as misstatements be able to give an opinion on the financial set certain quantitative thresholds for below that amount that, in our view, statements as a whole, taking into account materiality.
These, together with qualitative warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the geographic structure of the group, the considerations, helped us to determine the accounting processes and controls, and the scope of our audit and the nature, timing Going concern industry in which the group operates.
and extent of our audit procedures on the Under the Listing Rules we are required individual financial statement line items and to review the directors statement, set Our group audit was scoped by obtaining disclosures and in evaluating the effect of out on page 114, in relation to going an understanding of the group and its misstatements, both individually and on the concern.
We have nothing to report having environment, including group-wide financial statements as a whole.
controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at group level.
The group is Based on our professional judgment, we Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required headquartered in Jersey and has production determined materiality for the financial to report to you if we have anything material operations and exploration activity in Egypt, statements as a whole as follows: to add or to draw attention to in relation with exploration activity in Burkina Faso and to the directors statement about whether Overall group $6.8 million Cte dIvoire.
they considered it appropriate to adopt materiality 2015: $5.4 million.
the going concern basis in preparing the Based on that assessment, our group audit How we 5% of three-year average financial statements.
We have nothing scope focused primarily on the Sukari determined it profit before tax, after material to add or to draw attention to.
Gold Mine in Egypt, the groups principal exceptional items.
operation, which was subject to a full-scope As noted in the directors statement, Rationale for We used the profit before audit.
Specific audit procedures were the directors have concluded that it is benchmark tax after exceptional items performed over material balances relating appropriate to adopt the going concern applied benchmark and took a to the groups exploration and corporate basis in preparing the financial statements.
We visited the Sukari Gold Mine The going concern basis presumes that the eliminate the effects and conducted audit fieldwork in Alexandria group has adequate resources to remain of gold price volatility.
During these visits, we observed in operation, and that the directors intend We chose profit before tax and discussed mining operations with local it to do so, for at least one year from the after exceptional items as management and met with the groups date the financial statements were signed.
it is the key indicator of the external in-country legal counsel in Cairo.
As part of our audit we have concluded that financial performance of the directors use of the going concern basis Furthermore, we performed work over the the group.
However, because not all consolidation of the groups components future events or conditions can be predicted, and significant head office and consolidation these statements are not a guarantee adjustments.
as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required and voluntary reporting ISAs UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 114, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on pages 109 and 110, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report.
Code, describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
118 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Centamin plc The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group UNDER ISAs UK & IRELAND WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF WE HAVE ANYTHING MATERIAL TO ADD OR TO DRAW ATTENTION TO IN RELATION TO: the directors confirmation on page 114 of the annual report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to draw C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing attention to.
the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to draw managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 31 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period to draw attention to.
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to Corporate governance statement In our opinion, the information given in the review the directors statement that they corporate governance statement set out on Under the Listing Rules we are required to have carried out a robust assessment of pages 71 and 155 with respect to internal review the part of the corporate governance the principal risks facing the group and control and risk management systems and statement relating to ten further provisions we have also reviewed the statement about share capital structures is consistent of the Code.
We have nothing to report that the directors have chosen to make in with the financial statements.
relation to the longer-term viability of the Opinion on other matters Opinions on additional disclosures group.
Our review was substantially less Directors remuneration report In our opinion, based on the work in scope than an audit and only consisted undertaken in the course of the audit: The Company voluntarily prepares a of making inquiries and considering directors remuneration report in accordance the information given in the strategic the directors process supporting their with the provisions of the Companies Act report and the directors report for the statements: checking that the statements 2006.
The directors have requested that we financial year for which the financial are in alignment with the relevant provisions audit the part of the directors remuneration statements are prepared is consistent of the Code: and considering whether report specified by the United Kingdom with the financial statements: and the statements are consistent with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act the strategic report and the directors knowledge acquired by us in the course of 2006 to be audited as if the Company report have been prepared in performing our audit.
We have nothing to were a UK quoted company.
accordance with applicable legal report having performed our review.
In our opinion, the part of the requirements.
Adequacy of information and directors remuneration report to be audited explanations received In addition, in light of the knowledge has been properly prepared in accordance Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and understanding of the group and its with the Companies Act 2006. we are required to report to you if, in environment obtained in the course of the Corporate governance statement our opinion, we have not received all the audit, we are required to report if we have information and explanations we require for The Company prepares a corporate identified any material misstatements in the our audit.
We have no exceptions to report governance statement that includes the strategic report and the directors report.
information with respect to internal control We have nothing to report in this respect.
and risk management systems and about share capital structures required by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The directors have requested that we report on the consistency of that information with the financial statements.
119 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibilities for the financial We primarily focus our work in these areas statements and the audit by assessing the directors judgments Our responsibilities and those against available evidence, forming our own of the directors judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in As explained more fully in the directors the financial statements.
responsibilities statement set out on We test and examine information, using page 114, the directors are responsible for sampling and other auditing techniques, the preparation of the financial statements to the extent we consider necessary to and for being satisfied that they give a true provide a reasonable basis for us to draw and fair view.
We obtain audit evidence Our responsibility is to audit and express through testing the effectiveness of controls, an opinion on the financial statements in substantive procedures or a combination accordance with applicable law and ISAs of both.
Those standards require us to In addition, we read all the financial and comply with the Auditing Practices Boards non-financial information in the annual Ethical Standards for Auditors.
report to identify material inconsistencies This report, including the opinions, with the audited financial statements and to has been prepared for and only for the identify any information that is apparently parent companys members as a body materially incorrect based on, or materially in accordance with Article 113A of the inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no by us in the course of performing the other purpose.
We do not, in giving these audit.
If we become aware of any apparent opinions, accept or assume responsibility for material misstatements or inconsistencies, any other purpose or to any other person we consider the implications for our report.
to whom this report is shown or into whose With respect to the strategic report and hands it may come save where expressly directors report, we consider whether those agreed by our prior consent in writing.
reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Richard Spilsbury assurance that the financial statements are for and on behalf of free from material misstatement, whether  LLP caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances London and have been consistently applied and 1 February 2017 adequately disclosed: a The maintenance and integrity of the the reasonableness of significant Centamin plc website is the responsibility accounting estimates made by the of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these directors: and matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts the overall presentation of the financial no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since statements.
they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
