STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report to the members of Centrica plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Our opinion These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are In our opinion: identified as audited.
Centrica plcs Group Financial Statements and parent Company The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Financial Statements the Financial Statements give a true and preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent cash flows for the year then ended: Company Financial Statements is United Kingdom Accounting the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: applicable law.
the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Accepted Accounting Practice: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance withthe requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
therisks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective What we have audited judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report estimates that involved making assumptions and considering andAccounts the Annual Report, comprise: futureevents that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: due tofraud.
the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year onour audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, thenended: are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas thenended: and inorder to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a and any comments we make on the results of our procedures summaryof significant accounting policies and other should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all .
Our audit approach overview MATERIALITY Overall Group materiality is 59 million which represents 5% of 3 year average pre-taxprofit adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements as definedin the financial statements.
Materiality AUDIT SCOPE We conducted our audit work across the Groups locations including the UK, theRepublic of Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, the United States and Canada.
Senior members of the Group audit team performed site visits across the Groups locations.
This included North America Home in Houston, the Neas Energy businessacquiredin Denmark and the significant parts of the UKbusiness includingUK Home, UK Business and Energy Marketing & Trading.
Audit scope Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit workaccounted for 94% of Group revenues and 80% of Group profit before tax.
Thecoverage levels have been calculated using absolute values ie the sum of thenumerical values without regard to whether they were profit or losses for the components.
This coverage also includes business units where only specific audit procedures have been performed.
AREAS OF FOCUS Areas of focus Our areas of focus comprised: Impairment assessment Onerous contracts Valuation of derivative transactions Downstream revenue recognition incommodity trading Pensions Presentation of exceptional items andcertain re-measurements 100 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT The Group has 5.3 billion of property, plant, and equipment, the majority We assessed and challenged the impairment analysis prepared by the of which relates to gas production, storage and power generation assets, Directors as outlined below.
1.8 billion of intangible assets and 2.6 billion of goodwill.
With regard to the overall impairment assessments performed by the Impairment assessments of these assets require significant judgement Directors, we evaluated the design of internal controls in place to check and there is the risk that valuation of the assets may be incorrect and that the Groups assets are valued appropriately including those controls anypotential impairment charge or reversal miscalculated.
inplace to determine any asset impairments or impairment reversals.
Wealso reviewed the assets that Directors assessed for indicators The value of Centricas assets is supported by either value in use ofimpairment and no indicators were identified.
calculations, which are based on future cash flow forecasts or fair value less costs of disposal.
We evaluated the Directors assumptions and estimates used to determine the recoverable value of the gas and oil production and storage There has been some improvement in forecast oil and gas prices in 2016. assets, power generation assets, intangible assets, and goodwill.
This In addition, favourable oil and gas reserve revisions and cost reductions included reviewing fundamental curves, benchmarking their oil and gas have resulted in pre-tax impairment reversals of 63 million in relation price assumptions, reviewing operating cost forecasts and expected tothe Norwegian gas and oil assets in the Exploration & Production production profiles.
We tested these assumptions by reference to third business.
A pre-tax impairment reversal of 56 million has been party documentation where available, such as commodity price recognised in relation to certain gas assets in Trinidad and Tobago forecasts, and consultation with operational management.
With regard afterconsidering the proceeds expected under the sale and purchase to Trinidad and Tobago, we reviewed the Directors assessment of the agreement.
An amount of 16 million pre-tax was also reversed in recoverable amount of the assets with consideration to the sale and relationto decommissioning on previously impaired assets.
An impairment assessment was performed on combined cycle gas We used PwC valuation specialists to help us assess the commodity turbine CCGT power stations with a pre-tax impairment reversal of prices and discount rates used by the Directors.
We benchmarked these 26million recognised within exceptional items in relation to the to external data and challenged the assumptions based on our knowledge KingsLynn power station following the award of a 15 year capacity of the Group and its industry.
In addition we tested the Directors sensitivity market contract.
and stress test scenarios to ensure appropriate judgement had been applied.
Impairment indicators were identified for the Storage facility following We challenged the key assumptions used in each impairment model and operational issues.
This has resulted in a total pre-tax impairment charge performed sensitivity analysis around key drivers of cash flow forecasts, of176 million being recognised.
The model remains highly sensitive including output volumes, commodity prices, operating costs and tokey assumptions including price, volume and well performance.
In 2015 the Group announced E&P Canada was no longer a core part With regard to E&P Canada, we have challenged the Directors assessment ofthe Exploration & Production business and would be divested.
that the business should not be classified as held for sale at the balance TheDirectors have received a range of bids and have considered sheet date.
This included meeting with operational and group management internaldiscounted cash flow analysis which evidence a wide range to assess the status of the disposal process as at the balance sheet date, of possible outcomes in relation to the valuation of the business.
understanding the status of bids, negotiations and assessment of the Considerable judgement has therefore been applied in determining the options being considered by the Directors.
In relation to assessing the recoverable amount of the assets.
As significant uncertainty remains recoverable amount of the E&P Canadian assets, we have considered the in the disposal process for E&P Canada, the Directors were unable to Directors internal discounted cash flow analysis, performed a range of conclude that completion of the sale is highly probable within 12 months sensitivity analyses on the discounted cash flow and understood the third from balance sheet date.
Therefore it has not been classified as party bids received.
Based on our analysis and the analysis performed by our valuations team, Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews we did not identify any material issues with the impairment conclusions and andconclusions and notes 3, 7, 13, 15 and S2 in the Financial Statements.
valuation of exploration and production, storage and power generation assets and goodwill.
We did not identify any material issues with the accuracy of the impairment charges and reversals and the associated disclosures including the classification of assets.
VALUATION OF DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS INCOMMODITY TRADING The Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to help protect We assessed the overall commodity trading process including internal risk management procedures and the system and controls on the and optimise the value of its underlying production and storage assets, power generation assets, and transportation assets, as well as to meet origination and maintenance of complete and accurate information relating to derivative contracts.
We found the controls in place over this the future energy and supply needs of customers.
process to be operating effectively and therefore placed reliance on Certain of these arrangements are accounted for as derivative financial thesecontrols in our testing.
instruments and are recorded at fair value.
We tested the valuation of derivative contracts at the year end date which Judgement is required in valuing these derivative contracts, particularly requires the use of the Directors valuation models.
Our audit procedures where the life of the contract is beyond the liquid market period.
The fair focused on the integrity of these valuation models and the incorporation value calculation requires bespoke models to be used that are specific ofthe contract terms and the key assumptions, including future prices and tothe derivative and, as such, we gave particular focus to the valuation discount rates.
We verified input prices into the system and recalculated ofderivative contracts at the balance sheet date.
valuations for a sample of derivatives, as well as performing sensitivity Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews analyses for more complex derivatives.
Our testing focused on ensuring andconclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the Financial Statements.
appropriate judgement had been applied in the valuation of the contracts and we did not identify any material errors.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus PRESENTATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS The middle column of the Income Statement represents exceptional items For each of the material exceptional items, we considered Directors and certain re-measurements.
In the current year, there is a total pre-tax analyses of why they were determined to be exceptional and performed exceptional charge of 11 million and a 1,030 million pre-tax net gain our own, independent assessment by looking, primarily, at the nature ofthe items.
The detailed work we performed on the exceptional items relating to re-measurements, included within operating profit.
relating to the impairment charges and reversals, which is one of the Exceptional items mostsignificant items, is described on pages 126, 127 and 128.
The current year exceptional items pre-tax charge comprises of restructuring costs of 228 million and an impairment charge on the We have performed audit testing over the restructuring costs recorded UKgas storage assets of 176 million.
Impairment reversals were during the year including assessing whether any related provisions meet recognised on certain exploration and production assets of 135 million the requirements under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and and combined cycle gas turbine CCGTs power stations of 26 million.
Our testing did not identify any material issues and Anet gain on disposal of businesses and assets of 101 million, a one-off wehave ensured appropriate judgement has been applied in classifying past service credit as a result of the implementation of a reduced salary restructuring costs as an exceptional item.
cap on pensionable pay of 78 million, and a net release of onerous For certain re-measurements we audited the principles management use powerprocurement contracts of 53 million were also included within todetermine whether a trade should be recognised as part of business exceptional items in the current year.
We evaluated whether the agreed The appropriate classification of exceptional items involves subjective principles had been applied consistently by testing that a sample of thetrades had been presented correctly as optimisation or speculative judgement by the Directors including whether the item is truly exceptional by virtue of its nature, size or incidence.
Our focus was on testing that trading.
Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues with the presentation, classification or disclosure of exceptional thepresentation and disclosure of these items is materially correct.
Certain re-measurements as defined in the Financial Statements Certain re-measurements which resulted in a pre-tax net gain of 1,030 million, relates to the fair valuing of forward energy trades.
There are two main types of trades the Group participates in: optimisation trades it is the Directors view that movements in the fair value of optimisation trades do not reflect the underlying performance ofthe business because they are economically related to parts of thebusiness which are not fair valued, for example exploration and production assets or downstream demand.
As such, these trades areonly reflected in business performance when the underlying transaction or asset impacts the profit or loss: and speculative trading it is entered into for the purpose of making profit.
Therefore all fair value movements associated with it are disclosed as part of underlying business performance.
Our focus was on testing the correct classification of optimisation andspeculative trades.
Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews andconclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the Financial Statements.
ONEROUS CONTRACTS The Group enters into a number of significant and complex contracts, We tested the identification and completeness of onerous contracts forexample, power procurement and tolling contracts.
Macro-economic through discussions with management, examination of board minutes, factors, such as forecast commodity prices, can have a significant impact obtaining and reading the new significant contracts entered into during on the profitability of these contracts, and therefore the Directors make the year and testing Directors assumptions for a sample of contracts.
anassessment as to whether the impact of such factors has resulted We tested the valuation of the onerous contract provisions by evaluating incontracts becoming onerous.
whether appropriate judgements and assumptions had been applied The onerous contract provision of 64 million in relation to the Spalding indetermining the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation and the power station tolling agreement has been released following the estimate of the expected benefits to be received under the contract.
renegotiation of the contract and further improvements in elements of For the Spalding onerous contract provision release, we examined the the cash flow forecasts underpinning the provision.
The Group has also revised contract and tested the updated cash flow forecasts.
In relation negotiated an exit from the Rijnmond tolling contract which resulted in to the Rijnmond tolling contract settlement, we have reviewed the settlement an additional onerous contract provision of 26 million being recognised.
agreement and verified the cash payment made.
We have also reviewed Theonerous contract provision for the North America wind farm power managements updated model for the North America wind farm power purchase agreement was updated to take into account changes to purchase agreement to ensure the appropriate judgement had been applied.
forecast US power prices resulting in a 15 million release to the provisionbeing recorded at year end.
The Directors existing assessment of expected costs in relation to the European gas transportation contract remains materially unchanged.
Our focus on onerous contracts was assessing whether material onerous contracts have been identified and that the valuation of any provision is materially correct.
Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews andconclusions and notes 3, 7 and 21 in the Financial Statements.
102 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus DOWNSTREAM REVENUE RECOGNITION The accuracy of the recorded energy services revenue within the Group In order to test the accuracy of the unread billed and unbilled revenue and its presentation in the income statement is dependent on complex inUK Home, UK Business and UK Home Services, we assessed the estimation methodologies and algorithms used to assess the amount of ITgeneral controls, system application configuration, and business energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading process controls in relation to the revenue estimation and billing systems.
and the year end known as unread revenue.
Unread gas and electricity Our testing in these areas was sufficient to enable us to place reliance revenue comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
The specific risk onthesystem generated revenue estimation for the year end audit.
In overunread revenue is the accuracy of the estimation.
Where an unread NorthAmerica Home and North America Business, we performed detailed estimate is billed this gives the customer an opportunity to challenge the testing to support the accuracy of the unread billed and unbilled revenue.
estimate which can lead to the subsequent refinement of unread estimates.
Given the relatively short time period between the end of the financial Where unread estimates are unbilled, there continues to be a risk over yearand the audit, the majority of unbilled revenue as at 31 December accuracy, recoverability and therefore correct recognition in the income remained unbilled and uncollected at the date of this report.
We therefore statement and balance sheet.
focused our substantive testing on the manual adjustments to estimated unbilled revenue, assessing the appropriateness of the estimation Furthermore, following the implementation of a new billing system in UK methodologies and the reconciliation of unbilled reports to the general Business in 2014, Directors have performed additional levels of review ledger at the year end.
Where manual adjustments were made to the over the revenue and receivables cycle including making judgements unbilled revenue estimate, we challenged the basis of the adjustments overthe level of accounts receivable provisioning.
made, the source of the data used and the consistency of the Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews adjustments with prior years to confirm we were comfortable with andconclusions and notes 3, 4 and 17 in the Financial Statements.
In assessing the methodology used to derive the unbilled revenue estimate at the balance sheet date, and testing the performance of historical billing and collections, we did not identify any material issues withthe recognition of unbilled revenue.
With regard to the new billing system in UK Business, we increased ourscope of work in order to assess any continued impact of the implementation, specifically on accounts receivable and associated provisioning.
This included assessing the recoverability of debt and additional procedures over the calculation of the debt provision at yearend.
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatements withdownstream revenue recognition.
PENSIONS The Group has a net defined benefit pension deficit of 1,137 million, We used PwC pension specialists to help us assess the assumptions consisting of a 7,938 million asset, offset by a 9,075 million liability.
used by the Directors in the valuation of the pension deficit.
We compared the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation to our internally The assumptions used in valuing the pension liability are both developed benchmarks.
We have an internally developed range of judgemental and sensitive to change and thus there is a risk that a acceptable discount rates for valuing pension liabilities, which is based smallchange in the judgements used will have a significant impact onour view of various economic indicators.
While our range is, itself, onthevaluation of the pension deficit.
subjective, the discount rate used by the Group is in the middle of our The continued fall in gilt rates and the low yield environment has reduced expected range, however the inflation RPI is at the more optimistic the discount rate on which the Groups pension deficit is calculated to endofthe range.
2.7% 2015: 3.9%, while the remaining assumptions are reasonably Based on the work performed, we did not identify any material issues consistent with the prior year.
over the assumptions used in valuing the pension deficit.
As such our area of focus was on the assumptions used in calculating theliability, particularly the discount rate.
Refer to pages 76 and 77 for details on the Audit Committee reviews andconclusions and notes 3 and 22 in the Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality How we tailored the audit scope for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic OVERALL GROUP MATERIALITY structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, andthe industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is made up of the following business lines: UK Home, UKBusiness, Ireland, North America Home, North America HOW WE DETERMINED IT Business, Connected Home, Distributed Energy & Power, Energy 5% of 3 year average pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional items Marketing & Trading, Exploration & Production, Central Power andcertain re-measurements rounded down as defined in the Generation and Centrica Storage.
The Group Financial Statements FinancialStatements.
area consolidation of these business lines and comprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
RATIONALE FOR BENCHMARK APPLIED Accordingly, based on size and risk characteristics, we performed The Group materiality benchmark has been calculated as 5% of profit a full scope audit of the financial information for the following fromcontinuing operations, adjusted to exclude the effect of volatility business units: UK Home, UK Business, North America Home, onunderlying performance from disclosed exceptional items and certain NorthAmerica Business, Exploration & Production, Energy re-measurements.
These items have impacted the income statement to aquantitatively material degree and are not considered to form part of Marketing& Trading and elements of Central Power Generation.
theunderlying results of the Group.
To eliminate further volatility in trading Where the work was performed by component auditors, we performance, a 3 year average on the same benchmark was used in calculating the overall materiality.
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the auditwork at those business units to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for COMPONENT MATERIALITY ouropinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is Across the Group, the Group team involvement comprised of site less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million and 50 million.
Certain visits, conference calls, review of component auditor work papers, components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was attendance at component audit clearance meetings and other also less than our overall Group materiality.
forms of communication as considered necessary.
Members of theGroup team are also directly involved in the component audits We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to ofUK Home, UK Business, Energy Marketing & Trading and themmisstatements identified during our audit above 5 million Central Power Generation.
In addition, senior members of the 2015: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount Group audit team performed a number of site visits throughout that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the year including to North America Home in Houston and the Neas Energy business in Denmark.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Taken together, the business units where we performed our audit Statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going concern.
work accounted for 94% of Group revenues and 80% of Group Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
The coverage levels have been calculated using absolute values ie the sum of the numerical values without regard Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we to whether they were profit or losses for the components.
This have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation coverage also includes business units where only specific audit tothe Directors Statement about whether they considered it procedures have been performed.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
We have nothing material to add or to Materiality drawattention to.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent the Financial Statements.
The going concern basis presumes that ofour audit procedures on the individual financial statement line the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use ofthe going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not allfuture events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent Companys abilityto continue as a going concern.
104 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report for the financial year for whichtheFinancial Statements areprepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legalrequirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, wearerequired to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
Wehavenothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 82, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole tobe fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members toassess the Groups and parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent Company acquiredin the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 74, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to drawattention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 64 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or to ofthe Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, drawattention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 64 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or to ofthe Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they drawattention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors Statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing ouraudit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report continued Adequacy of accounting records and information What an audit of Financial Statements involves andexplanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable inour opinion: assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we have not received all the information and explanations we anassessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Groupsand the parent Companys circumstances and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been havebeen consistently applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates the parent company financial statements and the part of the madebythe Directors: and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration ownjudgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion FinancialStatements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report tobeaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with We test and examine information, using sampling and other theCompanies Act 2006. auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to providea reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Other Companies Act 2006 reporting audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
inour opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information arising from this responsibility.
inthe Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is Corporate Governance Statement apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed orinconsistencies we consider the implications forour report.
Withrespect to the Strategic Report and Directors and Corporate RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance Report, we consider whether those reports include ANDTHE AUDIT thedisclosures required byapplicable legal requirements.
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Charles Bowman the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Senior Statutory Auditor Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and for and on behalf of  LLP fairview.
CharteredAccountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the London FinancialStatements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 23 February 2017 UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and onlyfor the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for noother purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whomthis report is shown or into whose hands it may come savewhere expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial 108 Group Financial Statements 112 Notes to the Financial Statements Statements General information 112 1 Summary of significant new accounting policies and reporting changes 113 2 Centrica specific accounting measures 114 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Group Income Statement including Dividends 118 4 Segmental analysis 124 5 Costs of operations 125 6 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 126 7 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 129 8 Net finance cost 129 9 Taxation 132 10 Earnings per ordinary share 133 11 Dividends Group Balance Sheet 133 12 Acquisitions and disposals 137 13 Property, plant and equipment 138 14 Interests in joint ventures and associates 139 15 Other intangible assets and goodwill 141 16 Deferred tax liabilities and assets 142 17 Trade and other receivables 143 18 Inventories 144 19 Derivative financial instruments 145 20 Trade and other payables 146 21 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 147 22 Post retirement benefits 151 23 Commitments and contingencies Capital structure and financing 153 24 Sources of finance 157 25 Share capital Post-balance sheet events 157 26 Events after the balance sheet date Supplementary information 158 S1 General information 158 S2 Summary of significant accounting policies 169 S3 Financial risk management 174 S4 Other equity 175 S5 Hedge accounting 176 S6 Fair value of financial instruments 179 S7 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 180 S8 Related party transactions 180 S9 Auditors remuneration 181 S10 Related undertakings 190 Company Financial Statements 192 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 201 Gas and Liquids Reserves Unaudited 202 Five Year Summary Unaudited 203 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107
