STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS u Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit in relation to finance leases acquired were audited with 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified reference to external market data.
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group plc Cineworld or Group for the year ended 31 December To assess the classification of the leases we examined 2016 set out on pages 82 to 137.
In our opinion: the Groups technical paper and critically challenged the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the approach, inputs and conclusions by inspecting lease state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as agreements and external valuation reports as well as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year comparing to our own knowledge of the business and then ended: standard industry practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial To assess fair value measurement of the remaining Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: opening Balance Sheet position, we critically evaluated the the Parent Company financial statements have been report prepared by the Groups external valuation expert properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting and agreed opening balance position to the underlying Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure information including fixed assets records and stock count Framework: and as well as benchmarking against existing Cineworld cinema the financial statements have been prepared in accordance sites.
We independently considered completeness based with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, on our knowledge of the business, the legal due diligence asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the and the terms of the Sale and Purchase agreement.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement disclosures regarding the acquisition and the underlying In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial assumptions applied.
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit Carrying value of property, plant and equipment 445.4m significance, were as follows: 2015: 345.4m Risk vs 2015 t u Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page 94 Acquisition of 5 Empire Cinemas Total consideration accounting policy and pages 103 104 financial 94.5m New risk statement disclosures.
Refer to page 50 Audit Committee report, page The risk The carrying value of property, plant and 93 accounting policy and pages 108109 financial equipment balances at an individual cinema level may statementdisclosures.
not be recoverable through future cash flows as national The risk the acquisition of 5 Empire Cinemas on 12 and local factors, such as movie slates or increased August 2016 was a significant transaction for Cineworld.
competition, can materially affect site performance.
The The identification of acquired intangible assets and key sensitivities in the calculation are the assumptions determination of their fair values are highly judgmental.
used in calculating the discount rate and the difficulties In addition the acquired leases contain discrete terms in accurately predicting site performance, particularly including stepped rentals, varying lengths, break dates and due to external uncontrollable factors.
The latter is mainly rent reviews.
There is significant complexity in assessing because: the Group has no direct control over the films the classification of the longer term leases and recognising released for distribution: there is limited visibility over the any acquisition adjustment in relation to the market rent release schedule more than 12 months into the future: and of operating leases and the fair value of finance leases.
there can be variation in performance of the films over the Judgement is also involved in determining completeness diverse geographic footprint of the Group.
and fair value of the other Balance Sheet items.
Cineworld engaged external valuation specialists to inform the Our response Our audit procedures included challenging judgements and estimates required.
the cash flow forecasts for all cinema sites by comparing them against historical performance trends, together Our response Our audit procedures included examining with assessing the basis for and impact of both expected the sale and purchase agreement, legal due diligence changes in market conditions and the committed future report, Groups technical papers and handover accounts plans of the business.
Our assessment was based on: and comparing these to the proposed opening Balance our existing knowledge of the business, the expected Sheet positions.
In addition we reviewed the above against future movie slate and discussion with the directors.
the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
We We considered the underlying assumptions within used our own valuation specialists to assist in evaluating the forecasts, including comparing revenue growth whether all intangible assets had been identified and and discount rates against our internal and external whether the fair values were appropriate.
this included comparison to other similar acquisitions made by the Group, standard industry practice and our own We assessed historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting knowledge of the business.
process through comparison of forecasts to actual results and considered whether the forecasts used in In assessing any adjustment relating to market rent, we the current year impairment tests took into account compared the rent amounts under the acquired leases to actual performance during 2016, particularly for those existing Cineworld cinema sites that are appropriate proxies cinemas where impairment assessments showed the least of current market rent to create our own expectation of the headroom.
In considering the appropriateness of discount market rent adjustment.
Similarly the fair value adjustments rates applied we took into account the level of risks we | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS u Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only considered was inherent in the underlying forecasts to We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or which they were being applied.
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 225,000 2015: 175,000, in addition to other identified misstatements We assessed the Groups sensitivity analysis and the that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
resulting headroom on the value-in-use estimates across all cinemas and considered the appropriateness of the Scoping and coverage associated disclosures.
Group revenue Onerous lease provisions 2.4m 2015: 5.6m Risk vs 2015q Group audited 55% Refer to page 51 Audit Committee report, page 94 Component audited 20% accounting policy and page 121 financial statement Out of scope 25% disclosures.
The risk The onerous lease provision is revisited annually using a valuation model to determine whether any further provision or release is required.
Estimating future operating cash flows at a cinema level requires consideration of Group profit before taxation current and expected market conditions both nationally and locally.
The value of the provision is particularly sensitive to the assumptions used in relation to the discount rate and to forecast revenues.
As explained in the carrying Group audited 38% value of property, plant and equipment risk above, there Component audited 36% is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting revenues.
Out of scope 26% Giventhis uncertainty and the number of sites across the Group, this is deemed to be one of the Groups key judgement areas.
Our response Our audit procedures included challenging Group total assets the operating cash flow forecast of each cinema considered at risk by performing those procedures described under Carrying value of property, plant and equipment risk.
We Group audited 70% further considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure Component audited 15% around the degree of estimation involved in arriving at Out of scope 15% the provision and the level of sensitivity of the provision to changes in the input assumptions.
We continued to perform procedures over recognition of virtual print fee VPF.
However, following the expiration of VPF contract in the UK in 2016, we have not assessed this as The Group operates in nine countries across the UK and one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, Ireland, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel, each of which therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
is considered to be a reporting component.
We performed audits for Group reporting purposes on three 2015: five of 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the these components, resulting in coverage of 75% 2015: 88% scope of our audit of total Group revenue: 74% 2015: 81% of Group profit before The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole taxation: and 85% 2015: 93% of Group total assets.
This has been determined with remaining components, we performed analytical procedures reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of at component level to re-examine our assessment that there which it represents 4.6% 2015: 3.5%.
was no significant risk of material misstatement within these.
We note that in planning our 2015 audit, materiality was The Group team is responsible for the audit of the UK originally set at 4.0% of budgeted Group profit before component with some input from the Polish team in relation taxation.
Actual profit exceeded budget largely due to foreign to processes relevant to the UK component performed in exchange gain on the euro-denominated loan.
The Group team instructed the KPMG component increase our materiality level of 3.5m despite this change.
auditors in Poland and Israel as to the significant areas to be We assessed that 2016 materiality should represent a higher covered including the relevant risks detailed above and the proportion of profit before tax than that used to plan our 2015 information to be reported back.
The Group team approved audit because we considered that the level of audit risk had component materialities, which were set at 3.4m 2015: reduced, principally due the time that had elapsed since the 2.6m for the UK component and at 2.5m 2015: 2.6m major acquisition of Cinema City in 2014 creating a higher level for Poland and Israel, having regard to the mix of size and risk of stability within the business.
profile of the businesses within the Group.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 80 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS u The Group team visited the component locations in Poland Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to and Israel, including to assess the audit risk and strategy you if, in our opinion: and gain an understanding of the local finance environment.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Meetings were held with these component auditors Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have throughout the audit.
At the planning stage these meetings not been received from branches not visited by us: or focused on the audit approach, while during the fieldwork and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of reporting stage they focused on the findings and observations the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in reported to the Group team.
All findings were discussed in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or more detail, and any further work deemed necessary by the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the we require for our audit.
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the Directors Statements, set out on pages 49 to 50, in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and Companies Act 2006: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page the information given in the Strategic Report and the 38 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the We have nothing to report in respect of the above course of the audit of the financial statements and from responsibilities.
reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those Scope and responsibilities reports: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in Statement set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible accordance with the Companies Act 2006. for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on principalrisks the Financial Reporting Councils website at Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we www.
This report is made have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject the Directors Statement of longer-term viability statement to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our on pages 49 to 50, concerning the principal risks, their responsibilities, published on our website at management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be over the three years to 31 December 2019: or read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements the work we haveundertaken and the basis of our opinions.
concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Hugh Green 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Senior Statutory Auditor which we are required to report by exception for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you Chartered Accountants if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we 15 Canada Square have identified other information in the Annual Report that Canary Wharf London contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge E14 5GL or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or United Kingdom that is otherwise misleading.
9 March 2017 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS u Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the Year Ended 31 December 2016 Yearended Yearended 31December 31 December 2016 2015 Note m m Revenue 2 797.8 705.8 Cost of sales 584.8 517.2 Gross profit 213.0 188.6 Other operating income 3 2.7 8.7 Administrative expenses 102.9 94.2 Operating profit 4 112.8 103.1 Analysed between: EBITDA as defined in Note 1: 175.8 155.3 Depreciation and amortisation 4 58.6 49.4 Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 4 1.5 1.7 Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 0.4 9.0 Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 1.5 1.9 Profits on disposals of assets classified as held for sale 6.4 Settlement of defined benefit pension liability 18 4.8 Finance income 7 3.0 8.7 Finance expenses 7 17.6 12.1 Net finance costs 14.6 3.4 Share from jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax Profit on ordinary activities before tax 98.2 99.7 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 16.2 18.4 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group 82.0 81.3 Basic earnings per share pence 5 30.8 30.7 Diluted earnings per share pence 5 30.4 30.4 The Notes on pages 87 to 128 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 82
