Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC Report on the consolidated financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Clarkson PLCs consolidated financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain share-based payment and Directors remuneration disclosures which are required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements in notes 21 and 28 respectively and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 2.2m which represents 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition related costs.
Audit scope We performed audit work over the complete financial information for reporting units which accounted for Materiality approximately 89% 2015: 91% of the Groups revenue and 84% 2015: 93% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition related costs.
These reporting units comprised certain operating businesses and centralised functions.
Identified 70 reporting units, three of which were significant due to their size.
These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit of their complete Audit scope financial information.
Conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
Areas of focus Areas of Recoverability of trade receivables: focus Revenue recognition: Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets: and Classification and recognition of the adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition related costs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the following table.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
76 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 76 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of trade receivables Refer to page 72 Audit committee report, note 14 of the financial We tested aged balances where no provision was recognised to check statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related that there were no indicators of impairment.
This included verifying if accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
payments had been received since the year-end, reviewing historical payment patterns and any correspondence with customers on At the year-end the Group had trade receivables of 58.2m before expected settlement dates.
As set out in the business review section of the strategic report, the shipping industry has faced a challenging We selected a sample of the larger trade receivable balances where a year and the global shipping market continues to be impacted by certain provision for impairment of trade receivables was recognised and macro-economic factors such as oil prices and freight rates.
Accordingly, understood the rationale behind managements judgement for a the Group experienced uncertainty over the collectability of trade receivables provision being required.
In order to evaluate the appropriateness of from specific customers.
these judgements, we verified whether balances were overdue, the customers location and historical payment patterns and whether any The determination as to whether a trade receivable is collectable involves post year-end payments had been received up to the date of management judgement.
Specific factors management considers include completing our audit procedures.
the age of the balance, location and known financial condition of certain customers, existence of disputes, recent historical payment patterns We also obtained corroborative evidence including correspondence and any other available information concerning the creditworthiness supporting any disputes between the parties involved, attempts by of the counterparty.
management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit status of significant counterparties where available.
Management uses this information to determine whether a provision for impairment is required either for a specific transaction or for a customers By performing the procedures set out above we also challenged balance overall.
We focused on this area because it requires a high level of managements rationale where provisions were recognised on management judgement and the materiality of the amounts involved.
transactions that were not overdue as at the balance sheet date and verified these were appropriately supported.
In assessing the appropriateness of the overall provision for impairment, we considered the consistency of managements application of policy for recognising provisions with the prior year and in the context of the current macroeconomic challenges.
Specifically we considered: i how much of prior years provisions had been utilised for bad debt write-offs during the year: and ii prior year provision amounts released where a customer had paid.
Releases of the provision during the year are disclosed in note 14.
This included some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from customers where a provision continues to be recognised for new invoices raised.
Despite these payments, management continues to provide for such customers on the basis there still remains ongoing uncertainty over their underlying financial condition as indicated by the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due.
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
Revenue recognition Refer to page 72 Audit committee report, notes 3 and 4 of the financial For the sale and purchase, offshore and financial transactions near the statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was appropriately determined.
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
We selected a sample of transactions and agreed the details of these transactions to underlying contractual information or other supporting The Groups entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and financial documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain obligations, for been fulfilled by the parties to the transaction.
example stage completion of a vessel build in broking or formal approval of a debt or equity transaction in financial between two or more third parties over From the evidence obtained we found no material instances of revenue which the Group has no control.
being recognised in the incorrect period.
Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties obligations have been fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.
Some of these transactions, such as within the sale and purchase, offshore or financial revenue streams, are individually significant in value.
Consistent with the prior year, we therefore focused on these revenue streams, particularly transactions surrounding the year-end, where there is a risk that large transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.
The other revenue streams, such as support and research, were relatively less significant.
Revenue in respect of these streams is recognised when the service is completed or when the products are despatched, as explained further in note 2.21 of the financial statements.
There is therefore less judgement and risk of a material cut-off error in these streams.
com 77 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We evaluated the Directors future cash flow projections for all CGUs Refer to page 72 Audit committee report, note 13 of the financial with a particular focus on the offshore broking and securities CGUs and statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related the process by which they were drawn up, including comparing them accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
with the latest Board approved budget and forecasts, and testing the The goodwill balance of 294.2m is allocated across multiple cashaccuracy of the underlying calculations in the model.
We concluded generating units CGUs, and is subject to an annual impairment review.
that the cash flow projections were consistent with the Board Management used a value-in-use model to compute the present value of approved budgets and forecasts.
forecast future cash flows for each CGU which was then compared with the For the Directors key assumptions we: carrying value of the net assets of each CGU including goodwill and Compared the timing and quantum of short and long-term growth intangible assets to determine if there was an impairment.
rates in the forecasts against economic and industry forecasts and Determining if an impairment charge is required for goodwill and intangible with the actual historical results of the enlarged Group: assets involves significant judgements about forecast future performance Assessed the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the and cash flows of the business, including growth in revenues and operating Group with comparable organisations as well as using our own profit margins, as well as determining an appropriate discount factor and experts: and long-term growth rate.
Considered the cyclical nature of each CGU and that this had been No charge for impairment of goodwill has been recognised in the current appropriately factored into the long-term forecasts.
We found the Directors assumptions to be in line with the information The risk that we focused on during the audit was that the goodwill and other we compared them against and the discount rate to be within our acquired intangible assets may be overstated and that an impairment charge expected range.
In particular, we focused on the goodwill and intangible We also performed sensitivity analyses on the key drivers of the cash assets in the offshore broking and securities CGUs which have been most flow projections including assumed profits, short and long-term growth affected by the economic conditions, described in the business review rates and the discount rate.
In performing these sensitivities we section of this annual report.
considered the level of historical budgeting inaccuracies and how the assumptions compared with the actual values achieved in prior years.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill or intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We determined that the disclosures made in note 13 regarding the related assumptions appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of judgement.
Classification and recognition of adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition related costs Refer to page 73 Audit committee report, note 2.1 basis of preparation We tested whether the exceptional items were non-recurring in nature of the financial statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures and recognised and presented in accordance with the Groups of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates for disclosed accounting policy.
In relation to the gain on sale of shares in further information.
The Baltic Exchange we examined disposal proceeds and agreements and verified the accuracy of managements computation of the amount The Group excludes adjusting items exceptional items and acquisition of the gain recognised.
related costs from its underlying earnings measure.
The Directors believe that alternative or additional performance measures can provide the users In respect of other adjusting items we verified that managements of the financial statements with a better understanding of the Groups computations of the costs were accurate.
underlying financial performance and strategy, if properly used.
If improperly We have also assessed the extent to which underlying financial used and presented, these measures could mislead the users of the information is given prominence in the annual report, whether financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial position it is clearly, accurately and consistently applied and whether the of the Group.
underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading in the form Management judgement is required as to what items qualify for this and context in which it appears in the annual report.
There can also be judgement as to the point at which costs From the evidence obtained, we concurred with managements should be recognised and the amount to record.
assessment to classify and disclose these items as adjusting items, in Included in adjusting items were: line with the disclosed accounting policy.
Exceptional items: Exceptional items are explained further in note 5.
Acquisition related costs: Acquisition related costs are explained further in note 6.
We also focused on the accuracy of other charges included in acquisition related costs due to their financial significance, such as ongoing earn-out charges and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, which are presented as adjusting items consistently with prior periods.
78 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 78 Clarkson plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Group's operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component Auditors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component Auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We identified 70 reporting units, three of which were significant due to their size.
These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit of their complete financial information.
We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
This gave us coverage of 84% of the Group's profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition related costs, and 89% of revenue.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 2.2m 2015: 2.5m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition related costs.
Rationale for benchmark In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to profit before taxation, adjusted for exceptional items and acquisition applied related costs, because, in our view, this represents the most appropriate measure of underlying performance.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 112,000 2015: 125,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors report, set out by cross-reference on page 74, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors report, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 52 to 56 with respect to internal control and risk management systems is consistent with the financial statements.
com 79 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Other required reporting continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the explanation given by the Directors on page 75, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no the Code, as to why the annual report does not include a statement that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be exceptions fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and to report.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on page 72, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the audit We have no committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 39 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material to they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would add or to draw attention to.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 39 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing material to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider add or to draw attention to.
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors report in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 39.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
80 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 80 Clarkson plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10 March 2017 81 www.
