Strategic Report Governance ACCOUNTS Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC Opinion on financial statements of CLS Holdings plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 33 to the Group financial statements and 1 to 15 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risk The key risk that we identified in the current year was the assessment of the carrying value of the investment property portfolio.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 17.5 million based on 2% of net assets.
For testing of balances that impacted EPRA adjusted profit before tax, we used a lower materiality of 2.6 million based on 5% of that measure.
Scoping We subject all locations in which CLS operates to a full audit scope: this accounts for 100% of the Groups net assets revenue and profit before tax.
Significant In the prior year we included accounting for the Groups other investments as a significant risk.
We no longer changes in our consider this to be a significant risk at the investments which are not traded in an active market are no longer approach material.
There has been no change to the basis upon which materiality is calculated or our approach is scoping the audit from the prior year.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have nothing appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2.1 to the material to add or draw attention financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group to in respect of these matters.
contained within the corporate governance statement on page 45.
We agreed with the Directors We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did the Directors' confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the not identify any such material principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, uncertainties.
However, because future performance, solvency or liquidity: not all future events or conditions the disclosures on pages 28-29 that describe those risks and explain how they are being can be predicted, this statement managed or mitigated: is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as the Directors statement in note 2.1 to the financial statements about whether they considered a going concern.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and We confirm that we are confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities independent of the Group and in accordance with those standards.
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
In the prior year we included accounting for the Groups other investments as a significant risk.
We no longer consider this to be a significant risk as the investments that are not traded in an active market are no longer material.
VALUATION OF THE INVESTMENT PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Risk The assessment of the carrying value of the investment property portfolio, specifically the process, assumption description and judgements used to derive the property valuations.
Investment properties are held at 1,536.6m at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: 1,366.8m, see note 13 for full disclosure making this the most quantitatively material balance in the financial statements.
Investment properties are held at fair value on the balance sheet.
Fair value is by its nature subjective with significant judgement applied in the valuation, especially with regard to properties currently under development, of which the most significant is Vauxhall Square.
The key judgements made are those relating to rental values, occupancy rates, yields and the assessment of development and completion milestones.
Our identified risk also focusses on the accuracy and completeness of the information used by the external valuers in their valuations.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 70 where this is included as a significant issue.
The relevant accounting policy for the Group is presented in note 2.4 on page 83.
How the scope We assessed managements process for reviewing the valuations of the property portfolio.
of our audit We have utilised the expertise of a real estate specialist and chartered surveyor for our challenge of the investment responded to property valuations.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuers of the property the risk portfolio to discuss, understand and challenge the valuation process, estimated rental values, performance of the portfolio, significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones.
For the judgements made on the valuation of Vauxhall Square, we paid particular attention to the costs of construction and contingencies.
As part of our meeting with the external valuers we assessed their competence, independence and integrity.
Our real estate specialist provided relevant industry data for the UK and drew on local expertise in the European markets in which CLS operates.
This was used to benchmark the portfolio performance and key assumptions used to assess whether the external evidence supported the assumptions used by the valuers.
Finally, we performed audit procedures to assess, on a sample basis, the integrity of information provided to the valuer relating to rental income ensuring that it was consistent with the leases.
Our work on the valuation of the investment property portfolio was led by the Group audit team, supplemented by specific procedures by component auditors Key We concluded that the assumptions applied by the external valuers in arriving at the fair value of the Groups observations property portfolio, including development assets, were appropriate.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
74 Strategic Report Governance ACCOUNTS Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group We determined materiality for the Group to be 17.5 million 2015: 15.4 million.
materiality We continue to consider EPRA adjusted profit before tax to be a critical performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower materiality of 2.7m 2015: 2.2m for testing of balances impacting that measure, being most balance sheet and income statement balances with the exception primarily of fair value movements on investment property, investments and financial instruments.
Basis for We have determined materiality for the Group based on 2% of net assets 2015: 2%.
determining For testing of balances that impact EPRA adjusted profit before tax, a basis of 5% of that measure 2015: 5% has materiality been used.
Rationale for As an investment property company, the main focus of management is to generate long-term capital value from the benchmark the investment property portfolio and, therefore, we consider net assets to be the most appropriate basis for applied materiality.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the increase in net assets driven by the uplift in the valuation of the investment property portfolio, largely as a result of the favourable exchange rate movements.
million 883 million 20 98% 17.5 15 18 million 2% 10 8.9 4.0 5 Net Assets 0.8 Group materiality 0 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 875,000 2015: 307,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have reassessed our threshold for reporting audit differences to the Audit Committee to 5% of materiality 2015: 2% of materiality.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risk of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, and consistent with our conclusion on scoping in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope on the audit work at each of the Groups principal business units, being the UK, France, Germany and Sweden.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups net assets, and 100% 2015: 100% of revenue and profit before tax.
All business units were subject to a full scope audit.
This approach provides an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at each of the four business units has been executed by Deloitte component auditors at levels of materiality applicable to each individual business unit which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 8.9 million to 4.0 million 2015: 10.8 million to 6.1 million with lower materialities being used for those items impacting EPRA adjusted profit before tax, consistent with the Group audit approach.
The audit work on the key audit risk above has been led by the Group audit team, supplemented by specific procedures by the component auditors.
The reporting from all component auditors has been reviewed by the Group team and, where necessary, component auditors carried out further testing at our request.
At the Group level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
All component audit partners are included in our team briefing where their risk assessment is discussed and there is frequent two-way communication between the Group and component teams.
In the year, we have visited our component teams in Germany and Sweden and have plans to visit the team in France in the next twelve months.
There has been no significant change in our scoping compared to the prior year.
75 Group materiality Maximum component materiality Minimum component materiality Threshold for reporting audit differences to the Audit Committee INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CLS HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report arising of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report from these matters.
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, We confirm that we have not in our opinion, information in the annual report is: identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
76 Strategic Report Governance ACCOUNTS Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Beddy FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 8 March 2017 77
