Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the Group Financial Statements Overview Materiality: Overall Group materiality: 10m which represents 5.6% of underlying profit Our opinion before tax.
In our opinion, Cobham plcs Group Financial Statements the financial statements : Audit scope: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at We conducted audit work in five countries covering 37 reporting units: 31 December 2016 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: We performed an audit of complete financial information of 16 reporting Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial units in the UK, Australia, France and Denmark: Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and Our work conducted in the US was executed at 13 reporting units where Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies wecompleted audit procedures on specific line items such as revenue Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
orinventory, and 8 further reporting units where we performed limited audit procedures.
Emphasis of matter Going concern In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we Areas of focus: have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 1 to the financial Revenue and profit recognition on contracts: statements concerning the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments: The matters explained in the Directors going concern assessment on page 33 Inventory provisioning: disclose that a shareholder vote is required in order to increase the share capital Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs including of the Company which is needed to raise additional capital through a rights exceptional items : issue and this has not yet taken place.
The rights issue is fully underwritten on Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and recoverability of deferred a standby basis, subject to customary conditions.
These conditions, along with tax assets.
the other matters explained in note 1 to the financial statements, indicates the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements do not We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on include the adjustments that would result if the Group was unable to continue Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of What we have audited material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect the Annual Report, comprise: of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, ofComprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016: wealso addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and The Notes to the Group Financial Statements, which include a summary The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the following table.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial identified by our audit.
statements is IFRS as adopted by the EuropeanUnion and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context During the past 12 months, the Group has made a series of announcements concerning the challenging trading conditions being experienced by some of its Business Units and the impact that was having on the Groups profitability.
The Group initially highlighted risks in connection with the Boeing KC-46 tanker programme on 24 October 2016 and further announced on 11 January 2017, based on the ongoing dialogue with the customer, that there was significant uncertainty over the outcome of negotiations with the customer.
These developments heightened a number of financial reporting risks, which were the subject of focus during our audit including: contract profitability including loss making contract provisions, risk of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and recoverability of inventory.
Further, in January 2017 the Board requested that management perform a closing balance sheet review to a lower level of materiality, including reviewing major contracts and asset carrying values.
Adjustments resulted from this year-end close process, some of which have been disclosed as exceptional and excluded from underlying earnings.
As part of our audit work on the presentation of non-underlying costs, we considered these adjustments from a recognition, measurement and disclosure perspective, as well any impact on prior period financial statements.
Further details are set out in the areas of focus section below.
com Cobham plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue and profit recognition on contracts We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period end to establish whether Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report and page 92 note they were recorded in the correct period.
This included agreement to external shipping evidence 1, Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation or authorised milestone documentation with customer acceptance where appropriate.
No uncertainty contract risk and programme execution.
For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around We assessed, through our audit of significant contracts, the basis of profit or loss recognition on the year end because material revenue transactions can occur close the Groups significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to account for them as to that date.
separate or linked contracts.. We evaluated the accounting in the context of the Group accounting policies, contract terms and accounting standards.
We found the accounting, in all material The Group also has a number of significant contracts which span respects, to be in accordance with accounting standards and Group policies.. more than oneaccounting period.
These contracts were subject to a detailed review by management as part of the closing balance For significant new contracts, we read the key contract terms and for ongoing contracts, we sheet review.
In particular, we focused on complex development understood any change clauses or amendments agreed in the year, considering whether any and production contracts including those on aerial refuelling aircraft areas were subject to interpretation or dispute.
We looked at the track record of customer such as KC-46 and A400M.
The nature of much of the contracting behaviour, and any correspondence, in order to obtain evidence of how terms were being work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent interpreted.
We also evaluated documentation supporting the recent agreement with Boeing.
contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the We found the accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with our understanding ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain.
incurred can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete by assumed under the contracts.
meeting with engineering staff to enquire about project estimates, checking the basis of overhead rates used and on a sample basis obtained purchase orders for materials.
We also inspected risk For the contracts detailed above, we focused on: registers and the process by which risk was included within the cost to complete estimate.
We The recognition of significant revenue milestones which often found the assumptions to be supported by the evidence we examined.
involve judgement surrounding the achievement of those milestones: We agreed total contracted revenue to original signed customer contracts, approved change The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customer orders or to evidence of, customer discussions and agreements.
We evaluated the reasonableness claims which are subject to commercial negotiation: of estimated revenue through a review of, and discussion about, customer claims submitted to The estimation of costs to complete the contract: recover additional costs incurred and considered correspondence with the customer.
No material Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted exceptions were found.
for as separate or linked: Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is We assessed the recoverability of the assets held on the Balance Sheet by reference to agreements appropriate: and with customers regarding payment or billing profiles.
No material exceptions were found.
Whether associated assets held on the balance sheet work in progress and accrued income are recoverable or whether We agreed contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the procedures above in a contract loss provision should be recorded.
respect of the overall outcome anticipated on the contract.
We read the disclosures relating to key estimates and judgements in these financial statements and are satisfied that the disclosures made were appropriate.
Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment We assessed managements impairment testing relating to all of the 10 CGUs byobtaining the assessments supporting model and assessing the methodology and key assumptions made: Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 92 note 1, Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts and tested Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation the underlying values used in the calculations by comparing the Directors forecast to the uncertainty impairment ofgoodwill, pages 105 to 107 note 10, latest three year strategic plan, including risk overlays that reflect historic experience, approved Intangible assets.
by the Board: Discount rates: for assessing the discount rates used by the Directors, we used an internally At the start of the year, the Group had goodwill of 1,147m and developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our view of intangibles of 529m on its Balance Sheet.
There is the risk that these various economic indicators.
We were satisfied that the discount rates used by the Directors balances cannot be supported by the future cash flows of the Cash fell within this range for all territories or were marginally above resulting in a more prudent Generating Units CGUs.
Management conducts an annual impairment assessment of the value in use : and test of goodwill balances and intangibles are reviewed whenever there Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied by management to our own internally is an indicator that an asset may be impaired.
During 2016, the goodwill and intangibles relating to three out of the For the three CGUs where an impairment was identified, we compared the future cash flow total of 10 CGUs were impaired as follows: forecasts to historic performance.
We recalculated the impairment charge with no material 196m against the Wireless business unit within the difference noted.
We compared the revised growth assumptions for these CGUs with the latest Communications and Connectivity Sector.
This unit includes part of available three year plan, which was used for considering the viability of the Group, to ensure they the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014 and Axell Wireless acquired in 2013: fell within the range of possible outcomes.
186m against the Integrated Electronic Solutions business unit, part of the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector.
This unit includes the For the remaining CGUs we performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions in order to Lansdale business acquired in 2009, part of the M A-COM business ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually or collectively to result in also acquired in 2009, the Trivec business acquired in 2011 and part an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets.
For those business units which were most sensitive, of the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014: and we discussed the basis for these cash flows with senior management and the Audit Committee.
192m against the Semiconductor Solutions business unit, also In particular we have focused on the recoverability of the goodwill and intangible assets of the within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector.
This unit includes SATCOM business unit, which has not yet seen a recovery in the Marine SATCOM market.
SATCOM part of the Aeroflex acquisition in 2014. has a goodwill balance at the year end of 212m.
In addition we considered the CGUs for the KC-46 air-to-air refuelling contracts which had a goodwill balance at the year end of 92m.
We These impairments were generated as a result of 2016 outturn are satisfied that the cash flow impact of the recent agreement was properly considered by below forecast, combined with lower growth expectations for 2017 management in concluding that no impairment is required.
Further detailed disclosure is included in note 10 of the financial statements.
com Cobham plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisioning We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the provision for slow Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 92 moving, excess or obsolete items.
This included comparing managements calculations for note 1, Accounting policies, management judgement consistency against those used in the prior year and, where forecast demands were used and estimation uncertainty inventory provisions and in the assessment, managements historical forecasting accuracy.
In situations where there page 109 note 13, Inventories.
was evidence that management forecasts had not been achieved, we assessed whether the provision had taken account of the likelihood of failure to meet future forecasts.
The nature of much of the Groups business means that the products developed can become technically obsolete.
It is also necessary to We also considered whether there was any indication of management bias such as manual hold additional spare parts in order to support key customers and overrides to the established methodology.
Manual overrides are typically in respect of programmes should the products require replacement or servicing.
spares held for the servicing of products on aircraft which have a long service life or where the business has purchased Last Time Buys for components which would no longer be The Group had gross inventory of 491m and provisions for available for purchase.
Where overrides were material, we considered the appropriateness obsolescence of 86m on its Balance Sheet.
Inventory holdings and of managements judgement based on historical usage and future usage expectations.
aging were a particular focus in managements closing balance sheet Adjustments arising from our audit were made in the financial statements where there review and a number of adjustments were made.
was insufficient evidence to support manual overrides.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include We understood adjustments proposed by management as part of the closing balance sheet subjective estimates.
They are influenced by assumptions concerning review and challenged management to ensure there was sufficient evidence to support future realisable value and usage.
Some businesses have experienced further write-offs.
We were satisfied that the adjustments made were appropriate.
lower than expected demand and have had challenges with revenue forecasting.
In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary No material misstatements were identified.
between reporting units depending on the nature of the business and inventory.
Identification and measurement of non-underlying costs We tested the presentation of non-underlying costs by assessing whether the classification including exceptional items was in line with the Groups accounting policy on such items on page 93 of the financial Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 93 statements.
We considered managements definition of exceptional and whether it had note 1, Accounting policies, management judgement and been appropriately disclosed, given it is a non-GAAP measure.
We considered the classification estimation uncertainty definitions andpages 98 to 99 of adjustments arising from both managements closing balance sheet review and our audit note 2, Underlying measures.
procedures, to ensure they had been categorised between underlying and exceptional, as defined.
The financial statements include exceptional items of 237m excluding impairments and non-operating business restructuring We considered the evidence of the events occurring in 2016 which resulted credit of 9m, which are disclosed as non-underlying and are excluded in the adjustments being required.
We considered whether there was evidence that from underlying operating profit.
We focused on this area because adjustments should have been recorded in prior periods, together with considering whether IFRSs do not define which items may be excluded from underlying a restatement of the comparative numbers would be required by accounting standards.
operating profit and it therefore requires judgement around the We found there to be no material adjustments, individually or in aggregate, that would justification for such exclusion.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items to be excluded from For business restructuring, we testing a sample of the costs incurred to supporting evidence underlying operating profit is important to maintain comparability such as external purchase invoices, redundancy agreements and personnel costs for staff of the results year on year.
dedicated to these restructuring projects.
We also checked that any releases to provisions no longer required that were originally recorded as non-underlying, were appropriately classified In 2016, these costs relate primarily to the outcome of the closing in the same manner upon release.
balance sheet review which have been disclosed as exceptional and business restructuring activity.
We reviewed the disclosures provided, particularly the nature of items adjusted and the reasons for management considering that they are exceptional.
No material issues were identified.
Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and recoverability We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read correspondence of deferred tax assets from tax authorities and external legal counsel on open tax enquiries.
We assessed the Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 92 and 93 note adequacy of the Directors taxation provisions by considering factors such as the risk profile 1, Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation of each matter and whether the provision addresses possible penalties and interest.
We met uncertainty taxation, pages 115 to 116 note 20, Deferred tax with senior management and challenged the judgements made in relation to the likelihood of and page 127 note 29, Contingent liabilities.
litigation from tax authorities by comparing managements assessment against our own views based on our independent assessment of risk.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number of jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax We assessed the recoverability of deferred tax assets, comparing the cash flow forecast used enquiries and has recognised a number of centrally held provisions by the Directors in making that assessment against those used for the goodwill impairment against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which is a highly review and viability assessment.
We found that the judgements made by management were judgemental area.
Where tax positions are not settled with the tax within an acceptable range.
authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and the advice of external experts.
We reviewed the disclosures made in respect of tax, in particular around estimates and uncertainties, as well as contingent liabilities, and are satisfied that the disclosures made The Group has material deferred tax assets, principally in respect were appropriate.
The Directors apply judgement in establishing whether deferred tax assets are recoverable.
com Cobham plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial How we tailored the audit scope statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into Overall Group materiality 10m 2015: 14m.
account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
How we determined it 5.6% of underlying profit before tax.
2015: 5% Rationale for benchmark Underlying profit before taxation is defined in The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic applied the Annual Report on page 144.
We believe that Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity and Mission underlying profit before taxation represents an Systems.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 68 reporting appropriate metric for assessing the performance units within these Sectors, comprising the Groups operating businesses and of the Group and provides us with a consistent centralised functions.
The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector CAES operates yearon year basis for determining materiality.
under a Special Security Arrangement SSA which is required to carry on It is the amount reported by management both business with the US Department of Defence.
The SSA places certain restrictions internally and externally to the market.
We also on access to, and communication of, information outside of the US borders.
considered our overall Group materiality in the We planned our audit to ensure US personnel complete the audit work within context of the Groups revenue, noting that it the SSA.
We also met, and agreed the audit plan with, our CAES audit team, in represents less than 0.5%.
addition to agreeing the format and content of communications.
There were 12 reporting units within the SSA that were in our audit scope.
Component materiality For each reporting unit in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Of the Groups 68 reporting units, we performed audits of their complete Group materiality.
The range of materiality financial information at 16 reporting units in the UK, Australia, Denmark and allocated across reporting units was 871,000 to France.
13 US reporting units required audit procedures on certain balances and 5,000,000.
Certain reporting units were audited transactions typically including at least revenue and inventory which are areas to a local statutory audit materiality that was also of audit focus rather than an audit of their complete financial information.
At less than our overall Group materiality.
a further eight US reporting units we performed limited audit procedures.
In addition to the above, we performed analytical procedures on the remaining The Audit Committee requested, and we agreed, that we would report to them 37 reporting units to understand key balances and transactions in the year and misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 2015: 500,000 as performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified.
well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
82% of the Groups revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we performed audits of their complete financial information or performed specific Going concern audit procedures over revenue.
55% of the Groups underlying profit before Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set taxation is accounted for by the 16 reporting units where we performed audits out on page 33, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having of their complete financial information.
In combination with the other work performed our review.
referred to above, together with additional procedures performed at Group level, including testing of significant journals posted within the Sector and Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything consolidations and significant adjustments made to the financial statements, material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement this gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis as a whole.
in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to other than the material uncertainty we have described in the Where the work was performed by reporting unit audit teams, we determined emphasis of matter paragraph above.
the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial This included attending the audit close meetings by conference call at which statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate the outcome of each reporting unit audit was discussed and visiting a number resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, of larger reporting unit audit teams during their planning or fieldwork.
This for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
The included the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development appropriateness of the adoption of the going concern basis is dependent on the and production contracts.
Parent Companys ability to raise additional share capital.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate, Materiality although the Parent Companys ability to raise additional share capital indicates The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, as explained in note 1 to the considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, financial statements.
However, because not all future events or conditions can timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both continue as a going concern.
individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
com Cobham plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Corporate governance statement ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have Information in the Annual Report is: We have no nothing to report having performed our review.
materially inconsistent with the information exceptions intheaudited financial statements: or to report.
Responsibilities for the financial statements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of and the audit theGroup acquired in the course of performing Our responsibilities and those of the Directors ouraudit: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility set out otherwise misleading.
on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The statement given by the Directors on page 61, in We have no accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in Governance Code the Code, that they consider the to report.
accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
andunderstandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent and performance, business model and strategy is Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these Groupacquired in the course of performing our audit.
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other The section of the Annual Report on pages 56 We have no person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save and 57, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
describing thework of the Audit Committee does to report.
not appropriately address matters communicated What an audit of financial statements involves byustothe Audit Committee.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial theprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or ofthe Group error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the The Directors confirmation on page 53 of the Annual We have nothing Directors: and Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, material to add or to The overall presentation of the financial statements.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements would threaten its business model, future performance, against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the solvency or liquidity.
disclosures in the financial statements.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have nothing those risks and explain how they are being managed material to add or to We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, ormitigated.
to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of We have nothing The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
material to add or to Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the draw attention to.
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the the Group, over what period they have done so and Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial why they consider that period to be appropriate, and statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect their statement as to whether they have a reasonable based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the expectation that the Group will be able to continue course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
over the period of their assessment, including any With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we consider related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Other matter Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant That report includes an emphasis of matter.
provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Pauline Campbell Adequacy of information and explanations received Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our for and on behalf of  LLP opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors forour audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
London 2 March 2016 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are notmade.
com Cobham plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
