Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements We have not received all the information and explanations we require for Our opinion ouraudit: or In our opinion, Cobham plcs Parent Company Financial Statements the parent Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, company financial statements : orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not Give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as visited by us: or at 31 December 2016: The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Accepted Accounting Practice: and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion Emphasis of matter Going concern In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 1 to the financial statements concerning the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going Other Companies Act 2006 reporting concern.
The matters explained in the Directors going concern assessment Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our on page 33 disclose that a shareholder vote is required in order to increase the opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are share capital of the Company which is needed to raise additional capital through notmade.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
a rights issue and this has not yet taken place.
The rights issue is fully underwritten on a standby basis, subject to customary conditions.
These conditions, along Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit with the other matters explained in note 1 to the Groups financial statements, Our responsibilities and those of the Directors indicates the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out doubt about the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
on page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial The financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result statements and forbeing satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our if the Parent Company was unable to continue as a going concern.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statementsin accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require What we have audited us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the The Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: ParentCompanys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 The Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these The Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other includeasummary of significant accounting policies and other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save .
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, What an audit of financial statements involves rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally includes an assessment of: Accepted Accounting Practice.
Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Other required reporting The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Consistency of other information Directors: and Companies Act 2006 opinion The overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the with the financial statements: and disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary accordance with applicable legal requirements.
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Parent Company or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any ISAs UK and Ireland reporting apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable Report is: legal requirements.
Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Other matter Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Cobham plc for with, ourknowledge of the parent company acquired in the course the year ended 31 December 2016.
That report includes an emphasis of matter.
of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor Adequacy of accounting records and information and for and on behalf of  LLP explanations received Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, London in our opinion: 2 March 2016 www.
com Cobham plc 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
