INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 96 to 143.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement When planning our audit we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements initially without taking account of the effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
As part of our audit planning procedures, we presented and discussed our initial assessment of key risks to the Audit Committee.
This is shown in our risk map below and identified three key risks of material misstatement that were expected to have the greatest effect on our audit.
Throughout our audit we continually reassess the significance of each of these key risks.
We made no changes to the key risks initially reported to the Audit Committee.
We summarise below i the three key risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing order of audit significance, ii our key audit procedures to address those risks and iii our findings from those procedures in order that the Groups members as a body may understand better the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are based on procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting Supply Chain revenue recognition Presentation of exceptional items and adjusted pro t Vendor management, Fraud risk from rebates and cost Management override management of controls Supply Chain IT controls revenue cut-o Fraud risk from Impairment revenue recognition of non-current Tax positions assets and transfer French Social Plan pricing Deferred tax assets Bad debt exposure FX risks Share option judgements and accounting Lower Likelihood of occurrence Higher Signi cant risk Presumed fraud risk per auditing standards Other financial statement risk 92 Lower Magnitude of potential impact Higher FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting 1,037.8 million 2015: 990.5 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, pages 101 to 109 accounting policy and pages 110 to 142 financial disclosures.
The risk Revenue is based on the contract price allocated to the stage of completion, by reference to the proportion of costs to date to forecast full costs for certain contracts.
Due to the complex nature of the contracted services which include both transition and transformation projects, there are risks that the costs of fulfilling the remaining service obligation could escalate.
This uncertainty makes revenue recognition subjective.
Furthermore, where cost forecasts are insufficiently certain, accounting standards limit the revenue: and where forecast costs exceed the balance of the contract price, provision for loss is required.
Our response Our procedures included detailed reviews of a sample of contracts selected based upon risk indicators such as contract complexity, margin changes compared to the prior period, relative magnitude of revenue or contribution recognised in the year, and loss-making contracts.
For these contracts we inspected the detailed terms to identify the service obligations.
We considered contract progress by inspecting customer sign off on acceptance of the deliverables and costs of that progress in comparison to the Groups original forecasts.
This informed our view of contract risks.
We then reviewed the cost forecasts by reference to the Groups forecasting record.
This was completed through retrospective review of the accuracy of forecast revenue, costs and thus contribution for a sample of completed projects in the year.
Future forecast costs including the risks and judgments within these forecasts were corroborated by obtaining evidence to support selected inputs.
We also considered whether the stage of completion and degree of risk in each selected contract was such that the revenue ought to be limited in accordance with accounting standards.
We also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
Our findings We found the resulting estimates of revenue to be mildly cautious, including after allowing for three audit differences that were each significantly below our materiality.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue.
Supply Chain revenue cut-off 2,207.6 million 2015: 2,063.9 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, pages 101 to 109 accounting policy and pages 110 to 142 financial disclosures.
The risk Supply Chain revenue includes revenues from many different product groups each sold with varying terms and conditions that in turn impact the point in time at which all delivery obligations, and therefore the transfer of the risks and reward of ownership, have been fulfilled transferred, and hence revenue is recognised.
Whilst there is little judgment required to identify the appropriate accounting policy for any individual contract, the number and variety of contracts give rise to some risk that an inappropriate policy is selected.
A larger risk arises from the fact that a significant proportion of this revenue stream is delivered and recognised in the final month of the year, leading to significant scope for error in the application of the relevant principle.
Our response We tested automated sales matching controls that are designed to ensure that each Supply Chain revenue transaction is recognised in accordance with the Group accounting policies.
A sample of transactions from before and after the year end were assessed for the application of the appropriate policy and agreed to supporting documentation, such as proof of delivery or signed buy and store agreements, in order to assess whether the policy had been correctly applied to recognise revenue in the current period or not as the case may be.
We also tested a sample of credit notes raised subsequent to the year end and obtained the corresponding sales invoice and proof of delivery to assess whether Supply Chain revenue related to a valid sale and was recognised in the correct period.
Our findings Our testing identified non-compliance with a related control over the bill and hold process in respect to one customer.
As a result we extended our procedures.
In our tests of Supply Chain cut-off, we found no accounting errors.
Presentation of exceptional items and adjusted profit 1.4 million 2015: 41.1 million Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 68 Audit Committee report, pages 101 to 109 accounting policy and pages 110 to 142 financial disclosures.
The risk The Groups measure of adjusted profit, in the income statement and throughout the Annual Report, is stated before: 1 1.2 million debit of redundancy and other restructuring costs 2015: 1.5 million charge : 2 nil in respect of the improvement in contract margins on certain onerous contracts 2015: 0.4 million credit : 3 3.0 million credit on gain on reversal of fair value adjustments 2015: nil : and 4 0.5 million charge on exceptional loss gain on disposal of a subsidiary 2015: 42.2 million credit.
The directors believe that the separate identification of exceptional items and other adjusting items and the resultant presentation of alternative income statement measures can assist shareholders to obtain a more detailed and hence better understanding of the Groups performance.
However, when improperly used and presented, these kinds of measures might prevent the Annual Report from being fair, balanced and understandable by focusing on only part of the performance.
The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustment requires judgment on its nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on the Groups underlying trading performance.
Our response Our procedures included evaluating the appropriateness of the Groups principles for identifying material or unusual items, by considering them against accounting standards for the separate identification of material items and the Financial Reporting Council guidance on the reporting of exceptional items.
We then assessed the application of these principles by assessing whether the approach taken to identify exceptional items was consistent between gains and losses: assessing whether the same category of material items are treated consistently each year: assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional items are explained: by agreeing amounts incurred in the year to underlying documentation and supporting information: and by using our knowledge of the Groups transactions gained throughout the audit to consider the completeness of exceptional items.
W e assessed the presentation of the adjusted measure, in particular whether the separate disclosure and related commentary of adjusted profit throughout the Annual Report and accounts placed disproportionate emphasis on that component of performance: whether the Adopted IFRS and adjusted financial information are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described: and whether the adjusted financial information is not otherwise misleading.
Our findings We found that the groups policies for exceptional items were balanced.
We found that judgments of amounts falling within the policy were balanced.
We found the presentation to be proportionate.
93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC ONLY CONTINUED 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2015: 4.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude exceptional items defined on page 108 as presented separately in the Income Statement, of 1.4 million 2015: 41.1 million, of which it represents 4.6 per cent 2015: 4.7 per cent.
Our work on those separate items is described above.
We report to the audit committee any misstatements exceeding 0.1 million 2015: 0.1 million apart from classification misstatements within the balance sheet or income statement where we report misstatements exceeding 0.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 15 2015: 15 reporting components, we subjected three 2015: three to audits for group reporting purposes which are situated in the UK, Germany and France.
For the remaining components we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the groups results.
Revenue Total assets PBT Underlying PBT Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Group level 3.3% Group level 7.9% Group level 7.6% Group level 7.8% Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting Audits for Group reporting purposes 96.7% purposes 92.1% purposes 92.4% purposes 92.2% The group operates a Shared Service Centre SSC in Budapest, Hungary, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the three reporting components and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
Audit procedures were performed at the SSC which focus on the testing of trade receivables and trade payables transaction processing.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 2.0 million to 3.0 million 2015: 2.0 million to 3.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on two of the three components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited the two overseas component locations in France and Germany 2015: France and Germany in addition to the SSC in Hungary, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors viability statement on page 60, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the next three years to 2019: or the disclosure on page 66 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report on page 68 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 62 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 13 March 2017 95
