FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC ONLY SUPPLIER REBATES AND DISCOUNTS OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT Refer to page 47 Governance and Directors Report and page 98 financial disclosures.
1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED The risk: The Group has avariety of agreements with We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group suppliers whereby rebates and discounts are earned based PLC for the year ended 30 September 2016 set out on on the quantity of goods bought.
The majority of the rebates pages 90 to 159.
In our opinion: and discounts due to the Group are reflected in the net price charged by its suppliers or are based on fixed percentages the financial statements give atrue and fair view of the state linked to the quantity of goods bought.
There is little of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at estimation or judgement involved in determining the 30 September 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year timing and amount to be recognised.
However, due to then ended: the large number of agreements in place across numerous the Group financial statements have been properly jurisdictions within the Group, the complexity of transaction prepared in accordance with International Financial processing as well as supplier rebate periods frequently not Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: being coterminous with the year end date, we consider there the Parent Company financial statements have been properly is arisk of error.
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Our response: We evaluated the controls that the Group has in place over the accounting for rebates and discounts.
Our the financial statements have been prepared in accordance audit procedures included inspecting underlying contractual with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, terms and supplier correspondence for aselection of as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of arrangements in place and considered whether the the IAS Regulation.
accounting policy had been applied appropriately to the 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT terms of the rebate.
We performed detailed testing on In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial asample basis of the largest rebates and discounts statements the risks of material misstatement that had the recognised in the period, with particular attention to whether greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit the rebates and discounts were recognised in the correct significance, were as follows: period and the appropriateness of any rebates and discounts accrued at the period end.
This involved selecting asample TAXATION of amounts invoiced and accrued as at the balance sheet Refer to page 47 Governance and Directors Report, page 98 date and agreeing the underlying calculation to contractual accounting policy and page 142 financial disclosures.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of supplier The risk: The Group has extensive international operations rebates and discounts.
and in the normal course of business the directors make judgements and estimates in relation to direct and indirect We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of tax issues and exposures.
As aresult of the complexities of goodwill.
However, following continued improved performance tax rules on transfer pricing and other tax legislation the in the UK business, we have not assessed this as one of the accounting for tax exposures is akey audit judgement.
risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Our response: Our audit procedures included evaluating the controls the Group has in place to identify and quantify its 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND tax exposures.
We used our tax specialists to analyse and AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions The materiality for the Group financial statements as awhole using our knowledge and experience of the application of was set at 60.7 million 2015: 62.7 million, determined international and local legislation by the relevant authorities with reference to abenchmark of Group profit before tax of and courts, and assessed whether the approach applied 1.3 billion 2015: 1.2 billion, of which it represents 5% by the Group is supported by custom and practice in the 2015: 5%.
We have examined the calculations prepared by the directors and agreed assumptions used to underlying We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected data, and considered the judgements applied including identified misstatements exceeding 3.0 million 2015: the maximum potential exposure and the likelihood of a 3.1 million, in addition to other identified misstatements payment being required.
We have inspected correspondence that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
with relevant tax authorities to identify tax risk areas and assessed third party tax advice received to evaluate the conclusions drawn in the advice.
In addition, transfer pricing documentation was critically assessed as part of our consideration of the tax positions taken by the Group.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 87 Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC only continued Of the Groups 52 2015: 52 reporting components, The remaining 4% 2015: 1% of total Group revenue, 3% we subjected 25 2015: 44 to audits for Group reporting 2015: 1% of Group profit before tax and 3% 2015: 1% of purposes and none 2015: one to specified risk-focused total Group assets is represented by 27 reporting components, audit procedures.
The components within the scope of none of which individually represented more than 0.5% of any our work accounted for the following percentages of the of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group Groups results: assets.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our GROUP REVENUE assessment that there were no significant risks of material % misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as 2 to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team determined the component materialities, which ranged from 0.2 million to 49.2 million 2015: 0.1 million to 49.2 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Consistent with 2015, aside from the audit of the Parent 1.
Audits for Group reporting Company and the non-trading head office entities that was purposes.................. 96% 2015: 95% performed by the Group audit team, the work on all of the 2.
Group-level procedures components was performed by component auditors.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with the GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX component auditors of all countries in scope for Group % reporting purposes.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit 2 team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 1.
Audits for Group reporting with the Companies Act 2006: and purposes.................. 97% 2015: 96% 2.
Group-level procedures the information given in the Strategic Report and the only................................................ 3% 2015: 1% Directors Report for the financial year for which the 3. specified risk-focused audit 1 financial statements are prepared is consistent with procedures..................... 0% 2015: 3% the financial statements.
5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES GROUP TOTAL ASSETS OF PRINCIPAL RISKS % Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 2 the directors statement of viability on pages 25 and 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note A of the accounting policies concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Group-level procedures only................................................ 3% 2015: 1% 3. specified risk-focused audit 1 procedures..................... 0% 2015: 4% 88 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT the directors statements, set out on pages 25 and 26, BY EXCEPTION in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 36 if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we relating to the companys compliance with the eleven have identified other information in the Annual Report that provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code contains amaterial inconsistency with either that knowledge specified for our review.
or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES we have identified material inconsistencies between the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement set out on page 86, the directors are statement that they consider that the Annual Report and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements financial statements taken as awhole is fair, balanced and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
and understandable and provides the information necessary Adescription of the scope of an audit of financial statements for shareholders to assess the Groups position and is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at performance, business model and strategy: or www.
This report is made the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address solely to the Companys members as abody and is subject matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to our responsibilities, published on our website at you if, in our opinion: www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be adequate accounting records have not been kept by the read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Anthony Sykes we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL 22 November 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 89
