Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of ConvaTec Group Plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Company Balance Sheet: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 26 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes 1 to 10 of the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key risks that we identified were: Revenue Recognition focusing on whether sales are valid with higher risk in the recording of revenue for sales shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
Valuation of goodwill focusing on the revenue growth projections applied to forecast trading performance based on managements view on future business prospects, which are noted to be inherently uncertain.
Taxation focusing on the tax impact of the IPO restructuring on provisions for uncertain tax positions and recognition of deferred tax assets and the related impact on taxation charge and balance sheet amounts.
Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $16.9m, utilising a blended rate of financial metrics including revenue, adjusted EBITDA and current assets.
Scoping We performed full scope audit procedures on 12 legal entities covering 9 countries.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in 11 legal entities across 7 countries.
Together, these accounted for 85% of revenue and 80% of current assets.
96ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Conclusions related to going concern, principal risks and viability statement We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We confirm that we have the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or nothing material to add or draw mitigated: attention to in respect of these the directors confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing matters.
the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement in Note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to We agreed with the directors adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors adoption of the going concern identification of any material uncertainties to the group and the parent companys ability to continue to do so basis of accounting and we did over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: not identify any such material the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what uncertainties.
However, because period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to not all future events or whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its conditions can be predicted, this liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention statement is not a guarantee as to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or to the groups ability to continue whether the directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in as a going concern.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter ISAs UK require that, as part of our overall response to the risk of fraud, when identifying and assessing the risks of material description misstatement due to fraud, we evaluate which types of revenue or revenue transactions might give rise to potential fraud risks.
We have specifically focused this risk to whether sales are valid with higher risk in the area of recording revenue for sales shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
Pressures to meet stakeholder expectations post IPO as well as sales targets could provide incentives to record revenues where risk and reward have not passed.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 5 and revenue recognition is included within the critical accounting policies in Note 4.
For specific detail on the Groups accounting policy, please see Note 3.
How the scope Our audit response consisted of several procedures including those summarised below.
The specific combination of procedures of our audit varied by location.
responded to the key audit matter We performed walkthroughs of the revenue cycle at significant components to gain an understanding of when the revenue should be recognised, to map out the relevant controls end to end and the processes in place.
We have assessed the design and implementation of these controls.
We performed sample tests of individual sales transactions and traced to sales invoices, final sales contracts or purchase orders.
We compared invoice prices to Company price lists to assess levels of discount.
We performed monthly analytic reviews to identify any unusual sales trends.
We obtained confirmations from customers in certain locations to support the assertion that revenue has been appropriately recognised.
We have tested sample transactions through agreement to shipping records and subsequent payment from customers.
In addition, we also reviewed a sample of distributor contracts to assess the terms of sale and to support recalculation of rebates and chargebacks associated with the revenue.
We held interviews with a selection of key sales personnel to determine the existence of any side agreements or unusual arrangements which may impact when revenue can be recognised.
We held quarterly review calls with business leaders to identify changes in customer demand and new product introductions that might impact sales patterns.
Our procedures performed allowed us to gain a thorough understanding of the revenue cycle with a variety of procedures performed to minimise the risk associated to potential fraud.
Key observations We were satisfied that the key assumptions used in the application of revenue recognition have been applied appropriately.
We noted no material instances of inappropriate revenue recognition arising from our testing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc97 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Valuation of goodwill Key audit matter As at 31 December 2016 the carrying value of goodwill was $921.0m 2015: $1,019.3m.
description Goodwill is a highly material balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and there are a number of judgements applied by management in determining the recoverable amounts including short-term and long-term growth projections, identification of cash generating units CGUs and discount rates applied.
We have particularly focused on the growth projections applied to forecast trading performance based on managements view of future business prospects since the growth rates are inherently uncertain.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 14.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 65 and it is included within the key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 4.
How the scope We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of short-term and long-term growth rates through: of our audit attending quarterly meetings with franchise and business lead heads: responded to the challenging the budget assumptions, using external data sources where available to support the assumptions applied: key audit matter challenging the Board approved budgets against historical performance assessing historical forecasting accuracy: assessing post period trading data: and challenging the arithmetic accuracy and integrity of the model used in the valuation.
We used our internal valuation specialists within the audit team to determine an acceptable range of discount rates and compared our range to that determined by management.
We challenged managements sensitivity analysis to assess whether it reflected a reasonable worst case scenario and performed additional sensitivity analysis on the growth and discount rate assumptions to determine if there are any scenarios whereby a reasonably possible expectation of impairment could be present.
We assessed the number of CGUs identified and whether the CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and the appropriateness of allocating the goodwill to the CGUs.
Key observations Overall we found the assumptions adopted by management in the valuation to be reasonable and the methodology applied was fair in all material respects.
When finalising the Financial Statements, an incorrect allocation was identified in the foreign currency apportionment of goodwill arising on the acquisition of ConvaTec from Bristol-Myers Squibb on 1 August 2008.
The allocation solely impacts the translation of foreign exchange on goodwill reflected through the cumulative translation reserve.
As a result foreign exchange movements related to goodwill were misstated.
The Financial Statements have been restated to reflect the appropriate amounts and the impact is shown in Note 14.
Significant levels of headroom were identified across all CGUs both before and after the restatement.
Taxation Key audit matter The Group operates internationally with intercompany trading across tax jurisdictions.
A number of activities occur through its description Swiss subsidiary, the income of which is taxed at the comparably low Swiss tax rate.
Debt levels prior to IPO were also high and losses were incurred in various jurisdictions.
As a result the group is potentially exposed to transfer pricing risk and challenges on interest deductions, and has to make judgements about uncertain tax positions and deferred tax asset recognition.
These positions were considered prior to the IPO restructuring.
The IPO restructuring included capitalisation of shareholder debt, a new UK holding company as a listing vehicle and the refinancing of external debt.
This gives rise to risk of triggering further exposures, additional challenge to pre-existing arrangements or changes to expected recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Legal and tax professional advice was taken on the steps required to achieve the restructuring, and the tax implications for the Group.
As at 31 December 2016 the Group held a provision of $19.1m 2015: $22.6m for uncertain tax positions.
Total recognised deferred tax assets DTAs at 31 December 2016 were $22.0m 2015: $5.3m.
At 31 December 2016 there were unrecognised deferred tax assets of $511.7m 2015: $546.2m.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 10.
How the scope In conjunction with our tax audit specialists we reviewed and challenged the tax implications of the executed IPO steps and the of our audit associated professional tax advice.
We confirmed that the required legal steps were appropriately implemented.
As part of the responded to the audit challenge, Deloitte tax specialists were engaged in a number of jurisdictions.
key audit matter We assessed and challenged the assumptions and judgements in managements calculations concerning the adequacy of tax provisions for uncertain positions.
We assessed the completeness of the calculation for the provisions and the procedures in place to analyse the movements including the rationale for any release, increase or continued provision in the year.
We assessed the judgements regarding whether to recognise DTAs and challenged the movements of these allowances.
Our challenge included an assessment of the future forecast results of the relevant Group entities.
We reviewed the Groups transfer pricing reports and analysis of permanent establishment risk.
Key observations We did not identify any material tax errors or changes to the provisions or assets recognised.
We concur with the treatment adopted by management both for DTAs unrecognised, and for those recognised.
The tax charge on the loss for the year is primarily driven by the following factors: significant levels of non-deductible expenditure following the IPO and reorganisation: the recognition of previously unrecognised losses and the recognition of a deferred tax liability on unremitted earnings from a subsidiary.
98ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $16.9m Basis for We have used a number of benchmarks to determine our materiality.
Whilst the Group has made a statutory loss, for the determining assessment of audit materiality we have selected three benchmarks which we believe cover key metrics of the Group which are materiality used by stakeholders, taking an average to determine our Group materiality: revenue adjusted EBITDA current assets The items adjusted in the adjusted EBITDA are explained further in the Financial Review.
Rationale for We believe that using a materiality based on these benchmarks reflects critical underlying measures of the Group, which are the benchmark given substantial prominence throughout the Annual Report, and reflects the key metrics used by analysts and investors.
applied The materiality figure represents the following percentage of the benchmarks.
Benchmark Metric Materiality as % of balance Revenue Performance 1.0% Adjusted EBITDA Performance 3.3% Current Assets Liquidity 2.2% Materiality applied by the component auditors ranged from $8.5m to $13m, depending on the scale of the components operations and our assessment of risks specific to each location.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.9m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped on an entity level basis, assessing components against the risk of material misstatement at the Group level.
We have also considered the quantum of financial statement balances and individual financial transactions of a significant nature.
In performing our assessment, we have considered the geographical spread of the Group and any risks presented within each region.
Based on this assessment, we focused our work on 12 legal entities covering 9 countries, 75% of revenue and 77% of current assets.
All 12 entities were subject to a full scope audit.
The 12 legal entities are located in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Denmark, Germany, Italy, France, the Dominican Republic and Japan, representing the principal operating units of the Group.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in 11 legal entities covering 7 countries, 10% of revenue and 3% of current assets.
The 11 entities are located in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Denmark, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Australia and Slovakia.
All remaining entities have been covered by review procedures.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out review procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to a full scope audit or specified audit procedures.
As part of our first year audit, a senior member of the Group audit team visited each of the most significant components of the Group, including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Switzerland.
The locations that we visited encompass 63% of the Groups revenue.
In addition to our visits, we send detailed instructions to our component audit teams, include them in our team briefings, discuss their risk assessment and as deemed necessary attend closing meetings and review their audit working papers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc99 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Full and specified audit component coverage analysis Revenue Current assets..... Full audit scope.
Review at group level Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in included in the Annual Report including the Overview, Strategic Report, Governance and Financial Review respect of these matters.
sections but does not include the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our auditors report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude in relation to the following aspects of the other information that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Our communications to the Audit Committee the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately addresses matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
100ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters we are required to report Auditor tenure The company was newly incorporated and has not yet had an annual general meeting.
Accordingly, following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 12 December 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 1 year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Gregory Culshaw, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 17 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc101
