com INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Countryside Properties PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Countryside Properties PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: The consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 September 2016: The consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: The consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union andapplicable law.
Our audit approach Context Countryside Properties PLC is a British housebuilder and urban regeneration company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is wholly UKbased, operating in London and the South East of England, and with a presence in the North West of England through its Partnerships division.
The Group is dependent on macroeconomic factors as well as the conditions of the UK residential property market.
The Group may be particularly adversely affected by any factor that reduces sales prices or transaction volumes or presents constraints in the supply chain in the UK residential property market.
This was particularly relevant for our work in the areas of margin forecasting and the valuation of inventory.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.6m, which represents 5 per cent of profit before tax, adjusted for nonunderlying items.
The Group operates in two business segments, Partnerships and Housebuilding, as set out in the Annual Report refer to pages 18 to 25.
Each of the operating segments is broken down into Materiality anumber of reporting units which are consolidated into the Group financial statements along withcentral reporting entities.
Reporting units from both segments were included in the scope of our work and the Group auditteam performed an audit of the financial information at each of these locations.
In both segments we focused on auditing the complete financial information of the larger Audit scope reporting units to give us appropriate coverage.
We performed audit work over the complete financial information of reporting units which accounted for approximately 99.7 per cent of theGroups revenues and 98.8 per cent of the Groups profit before tax.
Included in the coverage above, the central reporting entities and group functions, together withthe parent company, were subject to a full scope audit.
Cost forecast and margin estimates.
Areas of focus Land and stock valuation.
Accounting for the IPO & related nonunderlying items.
74 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked atwhere the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of Management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas offocus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Cost forecast and margin estimates We evaluated and tested Managements forecasting and monitoring controls for the sites Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies and Note 2 Critical accounting policies.
including the margin, noting that Managements forecasts are prepared, monitored and updated in accordance with the documented controls.
The Groups margin recognition framework is based on the margin forecast for each site.
These margins, which drive the recognition of costs as each unit is sold, reflect We held discussions with Management to understand the status and progress of a sample of sites.
estimated selling prices and costs for each development.
This process is effectively We assessed the appropriateness of certain underlying assumptions within the forecasts, amethod of allocating the total forecast costs, representing both land and build including sales prices, land costs and build costs and assessed Managements historic forecasting costs of a development over each individual unit.
We did not identify any sites where we considered the underlying assumptions There is a risk that the margin forecast for the site and the margin subsequently in the forecast to be inappropriate.
recognised on each unit sale is not appropriate and reflective of the actual final We assessed the historical accuracy of Managements forecasting through review of actual profit margin that will be recognised on a development.
margins achieved on completed sites compared to initial expected margins, noting no We consider the appropriate margin recognition across the life of the site to be significant adverse trends.
themost significant financial reporting risk for the Group, principally due to the We checked the consistent application of the margin recognition framework through highlevel of Management judgement involved in the accounting for the Groups analysing the margins recognised on different phases within the same sites.
We obtained developments given that sales prices and build costs are inherently uncertain evidence for any variances.
andareinfluenced by changes in external market factors, such as the availability ofmortgages or build cost inflation.
We tested a sample of sales prices to cash receipts to support the revenue recognised noting no material exceptions.
We tested a sample of costs incurred to third party supplier invoices noting nomaterial exceptions.
Land and stock valuation We obtained an understanding of Managements process for preparing a site forecast, Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies and Note 2 Critical accounting policies.
consistent with the risk associated with the margin forecasting and recognition process.
The site forecast, which is used to recognise margin in the consolidated income statement, Inventory is comprised of land held for development, work in progress, raw also calculates the NRV of the site.
Consistent with the risk associated with the margin materials and completed units partexchanged properties.
forecasting and recognition, we evaluated Managements controls over the approval of the initial forecasts and the monitoring of updates required to the forecasts over the course of Inventory is the most significant balance in the consolidated statement of financial the sites life, noting no significant instances where controls were not operating as stated.
position and is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV.
The NRV of each development is forecast and monitored as described in the area of focus We considered margins for all major sites to identify those with low or eroding margins, due above and is therefore subject to the same key assumptions.
Due to the influence of tospecific issues or underperformance.
We discussed the identified sites with Management, the same external factors and the cyclical nature of the housing industry, with including considering the level of provisions, if any, held against these sites and corroborated periodic downturns in customer demand, there is a risk that the calculation of the theexplanations with available external evidence in respect of the carrying value of inventory.
developments NRV, being the margin the development is forecast to make over its lifecycle based upon forecast sales prices and build costs, may be subject to We also assessed the historical accuracy of Managements forecasting as set out in the estimation error leading to inventory being held at an incorrect value and an area of focus on cost forecasts and margin estimates.
We discussed the planning status and strategic plans for sites with Management.
We confirmed the composition of the inventory balance, specifically the level and ageing ofcompleted but unreserved units, to understand if completed stock is held at the appropriate NRV.
We did not note a significant number of aged, completed but unreserved units which needed further follow up.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites where we determined that additional impairments were required in the year, above those already booked by Management.
Commercial land transactions We held discussions with Management to understand the substance of material Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies.
The Group enters into commercial land transactions from time to time.
The nature Where applicable, we reviewed Managements papers on the proposed accounting of these transactions can be complex and bespoke.
The format of the agreements treatment of the transactions.
introduces potential accounting complexities in order to appropriately reflect the We substantively tested material or complex land acquisitions through examination of terms of the agreements.
contracts and agreements to check that the acquisition and subsequent overage terms Due to their complex nature, we focused on them to ensure that the accounting have been identified and accounted for appropriately, and that all the related liabilities have reflected the underlying agreements.
been properly recorded in the financial statements.
Where relevant we agreed cash payments and receipts to completion statements and bank statements.
We assessed the accounting treatment of the transactions against relevant accounting standards.
We were satisfied that Management had appropriately accounted for these transactions.
com INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Countryside Properties PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the IPO and related non-underlying items In auditing the accounting treatment of the flotation, we: Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies.
discussed the accounting transactions with Management and assessed them for As a result of the flotation of the business in February 2016, a number of changes reasonableness: to the Group structure occurred.
As the associated accounting entries arising are corroborated the accounting entries posted by Management to those arising from the material in size and outside the ordinary course of business, we considered there to transaction: and be a risk around the accounting for these transactions.
traced significant monetary transactions to bank statements and contractual As part of the flotation process, significant costs were incurred by the Group.
Separately identifying and disclosing items as nonunderlying on the face of the We were satisfied that the significant transactions associated with the restructuring as a consolidated income statement requires judgement as such presentation could be result of the IPO has been appropriately accounted for.
In auditing the appropriateness of the classification of items as nonunderlying items for There is the potential for Management bias, as well as the inappropriate inclusion of external reporting purposes, we: inconsistent transactions or those that should be deemed part of ordinary ongoing Group activity.
gained an understanding from Management of the nature of the transactions and amounts presented as non underlying items to understand Managements rationale: discussed the rationale behind Managements classification and assessed the appropriateness of the transactions recognised as nonunderlying items using our knowledge of the business, inquiries of Management, examination of documents supporting the strategic change and related reorganisation, and through consideration of expenses that are typically connected with restructuring activities.
assessed the completeness and balance of nonunderlying items through identifying other large or unusual items in underlying profit, considering potential disclosure where significant.
agreed a sample of expenses invoices, and verified payments made to bank statements to conclude on the existence and accuracy of classification.
Inspected the consistency with which items are classified as nonunderlying as presented by Management.
We were satisfied that the classification, judgements and disclosures made by Management are appropriate and in line with the Group accounting policy onnonunderlying items.
Shared equity valuation available for sale financial assets We evaluated and tested the mechanics of the calculation to check the correct application Refer to Note 3 Accounting policies and Note 2 Critical accounting policies.
ofthe underlying assumptions and accuracy of the calculation, noting no material exceptions.
The Group has advanced loans to homebuyers to assist them in the purchase We tested movements in the underlying loans during the year, such as redemptions and obtained oftheir property under shared equity schemes.
These loans are held as available examples of the original loan agreements to verify terms of the loans used within the calculation.
forsale financial assets in the balance sheet and are held at fair value.
Through discussion with Management and review of the calculation we understood The valuation method for these assets is not capable of being based on observable thekey assumptions included within the calculation including expected house price market data and therefore the valuation model is highly subjective to Management movements, discount rates, recoverability and expected timing of receipt.
judgement and estimates, including expected house price movements, credit risk of We corroborated these assumptions by comparing those selected by Management to borrowers, discount rates which incorporate purchaser default rates, recoverability comparable discount rates used by similar companies, and our own independent research and expected timing of receipt.
on house prices and redemption rates.
Changes in the assumptions used can have a material impact on the fair value of In addition to reperforming Managements sensitivities we performed our own theseassets.
sensitivities based upon our own independent research to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, materially change thevaluation of the assets.
Our sensitivities noted no reasonable likely scenario that wouldresult in a material change to the valuation.
76 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED Our audit approach continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into two segments, Housebuilding and Partnerships.
These are then further structured into seven operating divisions, five for Housebuilding and two for Partnerships.
Each of the divisions is broken down into a number of reporting units which also include joint ventures that are consolidated into the Group financial statements, along with the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 17 reporting units which required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size.
These 17 reporting units were all audited by the Group engagement team and, where applicable, included the audit of the joint ventures.
In some of the divisions we audited complete financial information of all the reporting units and in some we focused on the larger reporting units to give us appropriate coverage.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of the complete financial information accounted for 98.8 per cent of the Groups profit before tax and 99.7 per cent of the Groups revenue.
Our audit work at these reporting units, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level on the consolidation, joint venture adjustments, tax, share based payments and the available for sale financial assets, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group and Company financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4.6m.
How we determined it 5 per cent of profit before tax, adjusted for nonunderlying items.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of profit before tax excluding nonunderlying items.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of nonunderlying charges and credits and provides a consistent yearonyear basis for our work.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We have no exceptions apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired to report.
inthecourse of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 73, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and We have no exceptions provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and to report.
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 47, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
com INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Countryside Properties PLC OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONTINUED The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors confirmation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material to they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten add or to draw attention to.
itsbusiness model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period We have nothing material to to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able add or to draw attention to.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing ouraudit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibility statement set out on page 73, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for ustodraw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Countryside Properties PLC for the year ended 30 September 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 November 2016 78 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC
