Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: Cranswick plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Cranswick plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Group income statement for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Company statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year ended Company balance sheet at 31 March 2016.
Group balance sheet at 31 March 2016.
Company statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Group statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Group statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Related notes 1 to 30 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition cut off.
Completeness and existence of commercial accruals rebates and similar agreements.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 of the 16 components.
The components where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 99% of profit before tax, 100% of revenue and 98% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.2m 2015: 2.6m which represents 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition cut off We gained an understanding and documented the key processes used We have The timing of when revenue is recognised to record revenue transactions and assessed the design effectiveness concluded is relevant to the reported performance of of the controls.
that revenue is the Group.
There is opportunity through appropriately At certain locations we identified and performed testing over key revenue management override to misstate the recognised in the controls supplemented in all locations with detailed testing of transactions.
allocation of revenue between periods correct accounting We performed detailed analytical testing procedures over revenue in the year, resulting in inappropriate cut off of revenue period and found comparing amounts recognised with our expectations and we corroborated at the balance sheet date.
There is also no evidence of any explanations provided in response to variances noted.
Therefore, there is risk that management bias.
revenue could be underor over-stated.
We performed detailed cut off testing of revenue transactions during the period either side of the balance sheet date with reference to Refer to the Audit Committee Report delivery documentation.
We also performed detailed analytical testing page 53 : Accounting Policies page 90 : procedures during that same period to establish whether cut off had and Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial been appropriately applied.
We examined material journal entries that were posted to revenue accounts and obtained supporting evidence to ensure revenue occurrence.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC CONTINUED What we concluded Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Completeness and existence of We gained an understanding and documented the procedures and We have controls in place over processes for recording rebate charges and concluded that commercial accrual rebates and liabilities and assessed the design effectiveness of controls.
the commercial similar agreements accruals including The Groups pricing structure includes We issued confirmation letters directly to customers in order to agree the associated rebate and other similar arrangements key terms of certain new and significant contracts entered into in the income statement rebates with certain customers.
financial year where those contracts were considered material due to expense and size, complexity or risk.
Where no response was received we performed Management exercise judgment in liability are alternative procedures as listed below.
determining the timing of when the liability appropriately should be recognised.
There is estimation We tested the accuracy and appropriateness of rebate accrual recognised and uncertainty in the valuation of the liability.
calculations by reference to available documentation, including the that amounts As a result of these factors, there is risk of terms of agreements where applicable, and other relevant supporting estimated are material misstatement.
documents and performed a comparison of costs in the year to prior within an year and expectation and independently corroborated any Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 53 acceptable range.
We vouched a sample of rebate payments made and credit notes issued in the year to supporting documentation.
We reviewed the ageing of rebates to identify old balances that remained unclaimed and we also compared amounts paid to the amounts previously provided, in order to gain assurance over the accuracy of historic balances.
We tested the completeness of the liability recorded at the year end through comparison to known arrangements with the Groups customer base and agreed arrangements with any new customers in the year.
We assessed the valuation of amounts provided by comparing to post year end payments where applicable.
Impairment of goodwill We obtained the calculations supporting this impairment charge We have The assessment of the carrying value of and challenged the assumptions made by management.
concluded that goodwill is inherently judgmental and subject the impairment We performed detailed audit procedures to verify the data inputs, to estimation uncertainty.
As a result there charge has been re-performed the calculations to confirm the accuracy and interrogated is an increased likelihood of misstatement appropriately the assumptions.
due to error or management override.
recognised in We have audited the discounted cash flow calculations and performed the period, is An impairment charge of 4.6m has been sensitivity analysis around the assumptions used in the model.
appropriately recognised in the consolidated income We have challenged the assumptions in managements cash flow forecast.
disclosed and is statement in the year.
We have corroborated known changes in revenue and cost assumptions fairly measured.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 53 to third party documentation.
We have evaluated managements historical We have also and Accounting Policies page 90. forecast accuracy and growth rate assumptions.
concluded that The pre-tax discount rate used is 7.03% 2015: 6.51%.
We have challenged the carrying value the discount rate used and the inputs to it.
We corroborated certain inputs of the remaining to externally quoted data and benchmarks.
We challenged managements goodwill at the assessment of the more judgmental inputs and performed specific balance sheet sensitivity analysis on these inputs individually and in aggregate.
We have considered the appropriateness of the presentation of the impairment charge as a separate line item in the income statement.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 16 reporting components of the Group, we selected 14 components 2015: 14 components, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
The full scope reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 99% 2015: 99% of the Groups adjusted profit excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges before tax, 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups revenue and 98% 2015: 98% of the Groups total assets.
Of the remaining 2 components that together represent 1% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges, none are individually greater than 1% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges.
For these components, we performed analytical procedures to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
78 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Profit before tax Revenue Total assets 1% 2% 2% Full scope Full scope Full scope components components components Other Other Other procedures procedures procedures 99% 100% 98% INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.2 million 2015: 2.6 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges provides us with the most relevant measure of Group profitability because the impairment of goodwill and these non-recurring charges give rise to an exceptional decrease in profit before tax that is not appropriate for evaluating the financial performance of the Group in the year.
Starting basis Reported profit before tax 58.7m Adjustments Non-recurring charges 3.2m Impairment on goodwill 4.6m Materiality Adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges 66.5m Materiality of 3.2m 5% of materiality basis PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.4m 2015: 2.0m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the past history of misstatements indicating a lower risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.2m to 1.4m 2015: 0.2m to 1.3m.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.16m 2015: 0.13m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC CONTINUED SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland reporting in the Annual Report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns exceptions to report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review requirements the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 75, and longerexceptions to report.
term viability, set out on page 30: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
80 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or We have nothing Ireland reporting to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust to draw attention to.
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Alistair Denton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Hull 24 May 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 81
