Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Our audit approach Report on the Group Overview financial statements Our opinion Materiality Overall Group materiality: 13.8m which represents 5% In our opinion, Croda International Plcs ofprofit before tax Group financial statements the financial statements : Audit scope We, as the Group engagement team, audited the two financially significant components the UK and the US give a true and fair view of the state of covering 51% of the Groups external revenues and 48% the Groups affairs as at 31 December ofthe Groups profit before tax 2016 and of its profit and cash flows forthe year then ended: For the next seven largest components of the Group, which are audited by PwC component auditors the five largest as have been properly prepared in full scope audits and the remaining two subject to specified accordance with International Financial procedures, we were heavily involved at all stages of their Reporting Standards IFRSs as audits by virtue of numerous communications throughout adopted by the European Union: and theprocess, including the issuance of detailed audit have been prepared in accordance with instructions, review and discussion of audit findings, the requirements of the Companies Act inparticular over our areas of focus 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As a result of this scoping we obtained coverage over 77% What we have audited of the Groups external revenues and 85% of the Groups The financial statements, included profit before tax withinthe Annual Report and Accounts Areas of focus Provision for environmental remediation the Annual Report, comprise: Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liability the Group Balance Sheet as at 31December 2016: Taxation the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive The scope of our audit The risks of material misstatement Income for the year then ended: and our areas of focus thathadthe greatest effect on our audit, We conducted our audit in accordance including the allocation of our resources the Group Statement of Cash Flows with International Standards on Auditing and effort, are identified as areas of focus forthe year then ended: UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have also set the Group Statement of Changes outhow we tailored our audit to address We designed our audit by determining inEquity for the year then ended: thesespecific areas in order to provide materiality and assessing the risks of material anopinion on the financial statements as the Group Accounting Policies: and misstatement in the financial statements.
awhole, and any comments we make on Inparticular, we looked atwhere the the notes to the financial statements, the results of our procedures should be Directors made subjective judgements, which include other explanatory read in this context.
This is not a complete forexample in respect ofsignificant information.
list of all risks identified by our audit.
accounting estimates thatinvolved making Certain required disclosures have been assumptions and considering future events presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our rather than in the notes to the financial audits we also addressed the risk of statements.
These are cross-referenced management override of internal controls, from the financial statements and are including evaluating whether there was identified as audited.
evidence ofbias by the Directors that The financial reporting framework that represented arisk of material hasbeen applied in the preparation of the misstatementdue tofraud.
financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Croda International Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provision for environmental remediation We obtained and read the Directors assessment of each specific Refer to page 50 Audit Committee Report, environmental matter that the Directors made us aware of, and assessed page91 Accounting Policies and page 117 notes.
thecompleteness of the list against publicly available information and other information on potential environmental exposure at current and former sites.
As a consequence of the Groups production We performed audit work on each matter as there is a risk that the liability ofchemicals, there are a number of open claims foreach matter could be materially misstated.
and litigation against the Group relating to soil andpotential groundwater contamination on sites, We evaluated the Directors assumptions, both in terms of the likelihood of both currently in use and previously occupied.
theGroup being found liable and also of any resulting financial obligation by: Environmental standards and legislation are reading publicly available information, correspondence with relevant specific to, and often contain unique requirements, stakeholders and other information available to the Directors relating to in each territory the Group operates in and may thespecific matters identified, and assessing the Directors assumptions besubject to change.
As such, understanding against this information: thepotential environmental risks and the financial reading remediation plans drawn up by the Directors external experts implications that the Group is exposed to is andconsidering whether the Directors have properly reflected them in oftencomplex.
thecalculation of the provision: The provision held for environmental liabilities evaluating the independence, objectivity and competence of the experts within the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 that the Directors engage to assess the likely outcome of the cases against totalled 12.1m, which relates to a number the Group, and the cost of remediation needed, by confirming they are ofmatters.
For each matter, the Directors, in qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective conjunction with experts they engaged, assessed local territory: the likelihood of the Group being found liable for comparing historical provisions with actual remediation costs incurred any remedial work and, where applicable the costs duringthe year to assess the Directors historical forecasting accuracy: of that work, as well as any associated fines and legal costs.
assessing the Directors accuracy in estimating exposures for fines and legal costs by comparing historic provisions for cases that have been Assessing the likelihood and quantum of any settled with the actual fine legal costs: financial obligations arising, requires judgement.
There is a risk that the provision could be materially discussing all matters with the Groups legal counsel and head of misstated and the required disclosures insufficient sustainability, and obtaining independent confirmations from the Groups due to the inherent uncertainties and the potentially external legal advisers on the progress of each claim: and wide range of outcomes and timelines in respect discussing all matters arising in Europe and the US with local management, ofthe resolution of each matter.
and corroborating information received from all parties.
The Directors performed a detailed assessment We found, based on the results of our testing, that the provision recorded ofenvironmental liabilities to ensure that the level anddisclosures made in the financial statements were consistent with the ofenvironmental provision held remains appropriate.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Financial Statements | Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of defined benefit pension We primarily focused our work on the pension plan liabilities in the UK and scheme liability the US which, together, account for the majority of the balance and, hence, Refer to page 50 Audit Committee Report, estimation uncertainty.
page91 Accounting Policies and pages 104 We evaluated the Directors assessment of the assumptions they made to108 notes.
inrelation to the valuation of the liabilities in the pension plan as follows: The Group has a number of defined benefit we agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension schemes that, together, are in a net pension liabilities to our internally developed expectations using our deficitposition of 146.5m, which is material both internalactuarial specialists and compared the assumptions around salary inthecontext of the overall balance sheet and increases and mortality to national and industry accepted averages: theresultsof the Group.
The schemes in the UK we evaluated the competence of the experts that the Directors engaged andthe US account for 79.7m and 28.6m tocalculate the defined benefit pension schemes, by confirming they ofthenetdeficit, respectively.
arequalified and affiliated with the appropriate industry body: and The valuation of the pension liability requires we evaluated the sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities to differences significant levels of judgement and technical between our independent judgements and those made by the Directors, expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
anumber of which can be volatile.
Small changes ina number of the key assumptions including Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the assumptions used by salary increases, inflation, discount rates, and theDirectors in the valuation of the liability were within a range considered mortality can have a material impact on the tobe reasonable using an internally developed range of acceptable calculation of the liability.
assumptions for valuing pension liabilities, based on our view of various economic indicators.
Taxation We evaluated the Directors assumptions for determining and calculating Refer to page 50 Audit Committee Report, theconsolidated tax expense, balances and accruals.
For all in scope page91 Accounting Policies and pages 100 territories we: and101 notes.
obtained the Groups tax computations and tested the deductions Due to the large number of tax jurisdictions in and tax rates applied by reference to local tax legislation: which the Group operates, the calculation of the obtained the Groups latest internal transfer pricing studies and Groups tax position is complex and is subject to  and used our internal tax specialists to scrutiny and challenge by different tax authorities.
assessits reasonableness: assessed the amount of the specific tax accruals based on our experience An error in the interpretation of, often complex, ofsimilar situations both related and unrelated to the Group: taxregulations, particularly relating to transfer pricing, could lead to a material misstatement read the latest correspondence between the Group and tax authorities inthe tax expense.
andconsidered any implications this may have had on the tax position reported in the Groups financial statements: The Group also holds a number of specific utilised our experience of similar tax exposures and risks faced by other judgemental tax accruals that relate to specific multinational groups to assess the evidence described above: and transfer pricing risks, open tax investigations audits compared the levels of tax expense by territory with the local statutory and other such matters.
The estimation of the taxrates and investigated the basis for any differences.
accrual is dependent on the Directors assessment of the outcome of the outstanding matters.
The Directors judgements in respect of the Groups position on uncertain taxitems are supportable and reasonable in the context of the information currently available to them and no matters were identified by our work thattheDirectors had not adequately reflected in their estimate of the tax expense, balances and accruals.
Croda International Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements How we tailored the audit scope Materiality As noted in the Directors statement, The scope of our audit was influenced We tailored the scope of our audit to theDirectors have concluded that it is byour application of materiality.
We set ensure that we performed enough work to appropriate to adopt the going concern certain quantitative thresholds for be able to give an opinion on the financial basis in preparing the financial statements.
These, together with qualitative statements as a whole, taking into account The going concern basis presumes that considerations, helped us to determine the the geographic structure of the Group, the theGroup has adequate resources to scope of our audit and the nature, timing accounting processes and controls, and remain in operation, and that the Directors and extent of our audit procedures the industry in which the Group operates.
intend it to do so, for at least one year from ontheindividual financial statement line the date the financial statements were The Group operates through various items and disclosures and in evaluating the signed.
As part of our audit we have components in 36 different countries effect of misstatements, both individually concluded that the Directors use of the across five continents.
and on the financial statements as a whole.
going concern basis is appropriate.
However, We, as the Group engagement team, because notall future events or conditions Based on our professional judgement, performed an audit of the complete can be predicted, these statements are not wedetermined materiality for the financial financial information for the two financially statements as a whole as per the a guarantee as to the Groups ability to significant components the UK and the tablebelow.
For the next five largest components We agreed with the Audit Committee that Other required reporting ofthe Group, PwC component auditors, we would report to them misstatements Consistency of other information under our instruction, performed an audit identified during our audit above 0.7m andcompliance with applicable of their complete financial information.
2015: 0.6m as well as misstatements requirements PwCcomponent auditors also performed below that amount that, in our view, Companies Act 2006 reporting specified procedures at the two next warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In our opinion, based on the work largest components of the Group.
undertaken in the course of the audit: Going concern Where the work was performed by PwC Under the Listing Rules we are required the information given in the Strategic component auditors we determined the toreview the Directors statement, set out Report and the Directors Report for the level of involvement we needed to have on page 91, in relation to going concern.
financial year for which the financial inthe audit work at those components We have nothing to report having statements are prepared is consistent tobe able to conclude whether sufficient performed our review.
with the financial statements: and: appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required the Strategic Report and the Directors theGroup financial statements as a whole.
toreport to you if we have anything Report have been prepared in accordance We were involved at all stages of their material to add or to draw attention to in with applicable legal requirements.
audits by virtue of numerous relation to the Directors statement about In addition, in light of the knowledge and communications throughout the process, whether they considered it appropriate to understanding of the Group and its including the issuance of detailed audit adopt the going concern basis in preparing environment obtained in the course of the instructions, review and discussion of audit the financial statements.
We have nothing audit, we are required to report if we have findings, in particular over our areas of material to add or to draw attention to.
identified any material misstatements in the focus.
We, as the Group engagement Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
team, were also responsible for other head We have nothing to report in this respect.
office activities such as the consolidation, financial statement disclosures and share based payments.
The procedures performed over the How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
components either by the Group team orPwC component audit teams and Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is the primary specifically by the Group team for example, benchmark applied measure used by the shareholders in assessing on goodwill, accounted for77% of the theperformance of the Group, and is a generally Groups external revenues and85% of the accepted auditing benchmark.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Financial Statements | Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 79, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report.
tobe fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members toassess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent withour knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 47 to 51, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to ofthe Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, add or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to ofthe Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they add or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Croda International Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Adequacy of information What an audit of financial Other matter and explanations received statementsinvolves We have reported separately on the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are An audit involves obtaining evidence Company financial statements of Croda required to report to you if, in our opinion, aboutthe amounts and disclosures in International Plc for the year ended we have not received all the information thefinancial statements sufficient to give 31December 2016 and on the information and explanations we require for our audit.
reasonable assurance that the financial inthe Directors Remuneration Report We have no exceptions to report arising statements are free from material thatis described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud orerror.
This includes an assessment of: Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we whether the accounting policies Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor arerequired to report to you if, in our areappropriate to the Groups for and on behalf of opinion, certain disclosures of Directors circumstances and have been  LLP remuneration specified by law are not consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and made.
We have no exceptions to report adequatelydisclosed: StatutoryAuditors arising from this responsibility.
the reasonableness of significant Leeds Corporate governance statement accounting estimates made by the Under the Listing Rules we are required Directors: and 28 February 2017 toreview the part of the Corporate the overall presentation of the Governance Statement relating to 10 financialstatements.
further provisions of the Code.
We have We primarily focus our work in these areas nothing to report having performed by assessing the Directors judgements ourreview.
against available evidence, forming our Responsibilities for the financial own judgements, and evaluating the statements and the audit disclosures in the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and those We test and examine information, using of the Directors sampling and other auditing techniques, As explained more fully in the Statement tothe extent we consider necessary to ofDirectors Responsibilities set out on provide a reasonable basis for us to draw page 79, the Directors are responsible for conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence the preparation of the financial statements through testing the effectiveness of and for being satisfied that they give a true controls, substantive procedures or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express In addition, we read all the financial and an opinion on the financial statements in non-financial information in the Annual accordance with applicable law and ISAs Report to identify material inconsistencies UK & Ireland.
Those standards require with the audited financial statements and usto comply with the Auditing Practices toidentify any information that is apparently Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
materially incorrect based on, or materially This report, including the opinions, inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired hasbeen prepared for and only for by us in the course of performing the audit.
theCompanys members as a body in If we become aware of any apparent accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 material misstatements or inconsistencies ofthe Companies Act 2006 and for no we consider the implications for our report.
We do not, in giving these With respect to the Strategic Report and opinions, accept or assume responsibility Directors Report, we consider whether for any other purpose or to any other those reports include the disclosures person to whom this report is shown required by applicable legal requirements.
orinto whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent inwriting.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85
