Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Daejan Holdings PLC for the year ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 42 to 78.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of significance, were as follows unchanged from 2015 : Valuation of investment properties: 2,009.4 million 2015: 1,855.2 million Risk vs 2015: no change Refer to page 11 Strategic report, page 33 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 50 Significant accounting policies and page 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The risk Valuation of investment properties is considered a significant audit risk due to the materiality of the carrying amount 93% of total assets and the subjective nature of property valuations which depend on the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Our response Our audit procedures included meeting with the Groups external valuers to challenge the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing the investment properties and the market evidence used by the external valuers to support these assumptions.
We used our own real estate specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions, methodologies, competency, and independence of the external valuers.
With the assistance of our real estate specialists, for a sample of properties we assessed whether the valuations were performed in accordance with RICS Valuation Professional Standards or their US equivalent.
We challenged the external valuers assumptions by comparing yields on a sample of properties to benchmark indices and evaluated the extent to which the movements in valuations were consistent with our industry knowledge and comparable market transactions.
In addition we compared a sample of key inputs used in the valuation model, such as rental income, occupancy and current tenancy contracts, to the Groups property management system and lease contracts.
We also critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures including the accuracy of the fair value measurement categorisation and adequacy of the disclosure of the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs.
Page 38 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Current tax liability: 44.8 million 2015: 35.7 million Risk vs 2015: no change Refer to page 33 Accounting and significant areas of judgement, page 50 Significant accounting policies and page 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is a key audit risks due to the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities and complexity of tax legislation.
Our response Our audit procedures included the use of our own local tax specialists to assist us in assessing the Groups tax positions and its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities.
We analysed and challenged the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions by reference to relevant accounting standards.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 19.7 million 2015: 16.6 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.9% 2015: 0.8%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 2.5 million 2015: 5.3 million which is 4.4% of the profit before tax for the year adjusted for net valuation gains on investment property, measurement of disposal profits and fair value gains losses on derivative instruments and current investments 2015: 2.9% normalised by averaging over the last 3 years due to fluctuations in the business cycle to rental income, property operating expenses, administrative expenses and financial expenses, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We report to the board any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 985,000 2015: 800,000 and 125,000 2015: 265,000 for rental income, property operating expenses, administrative expenses and financial expenses, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group has 50 2015: 74 group reporting components, two of which, one sub-group in the UK and one sub-group in the US, were audited by component auditors.
The sub-group in the UK was subject to a full-scope audit performed to component materiality of 1.0 million 2015: 24 subsidiary components each with materialities ranging from 1,300 to 5.3 million.
The sub-group in the US was subject to a full-scope audit to component materiality of 0.3 million 2015: 0.1 million.
The remaining 48 2015: 49 components were audited by the Group engagement team and were subject to full-scope audits performed to component materialities ranging from 1,995 to 2.4 million 2015: 1,302 to 5.3 million.
The Group team approved the component materialities having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The 50 components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of each of total Group revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
The Group audit team visited the components audited by component auditors in the UK and the US, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Page 39 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daejan Holdings PLC continued 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of viability statement on page 22, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 5 year period of their assessment: or the disclosures on page 35 of the Corporate Governance Report concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the board.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Page 40 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on pages 35 and 22, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 32 to 35 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 36 and 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 21 July 2016 Page 41
