Independent audItors report to the members ofdaIryCrest Group plc opinion on financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion: preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as group and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in and of the groups loss for the year then ended: accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: overview of our audit approach The parent company financial statements have been properly risks impacting Accounting for promotional accruals, including the audit strategy impact on revenue recognition prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Accounting for the disposal of the Dairies Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the operations Companies Act 2006: and Classification of items as exceptional Deferred tax asset recognition relating to Dairies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with losses the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the audit scope We have 3 full scope components where we have group financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
performed an audit of the financial information The entities where we performed full audit What we have audited procedures accounted for 100% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 100% of We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc for revenue and 97% of total assets the year ended 31 March 2016 which comprise: materiality Overall Group materiality of 2.8 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for Group parent company non-recurring items Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 What has We have removed the significant risk relating to 31March 2016 changed assessing the carrying value of Dairies non current Consolidated income statement for Statement of changes in equity for assets following its disposal during 2016.
We have the year then ended the year then ended added a risk regarding the recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of losses carried Consolidated statement of Cash flow statement for the year then forward on the Dairies business as this is a new comprehensive income for the year ended area of significant judgment then ended Consolidated statement of changes Related notes 1 to 35 to the financial in equity for the year then ended statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 35 to the financial statements our assessment of risk of material misstatement the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as procedures below which were designed in the context of the those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of express any opinion on these individual areas.
risk our response to the risk accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact on revenue We undertook transaction testing to verify that revenue has been calculated in recognition accordance with contractual terms and in accordance with the Groups revenue Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 36 : Accounting policies page 75 : recognition policy and included cut-off testing procedures to verify that revenue and Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 81. has been recognised in the correct accounting period.
We evaluated the design of controls in relation to the authorisation of promotional Revenue of 422.3 million continuing is recognised net of rebates and activity and the determination of year end promotional accruals.
discounts, which comprise promotional expenses in relation to agreed We tested on a sample basis year end promotional accruals and obtained third promotional activity and funding with customers.
We focused on this area party documentation to support the existence and measurement of the accruals given the significance of revenue to the financial statements and the balance.
subjectivity in determining appropriate redemption rates on certain types of We verified the appropriateness of managements key assumptions in determining promotional activity on which to determine related accruals at the reporting redemption rates.
These were reassessed based on observed changes in date.
In addition, reasssessment of redemption rates can lead to changes to consumer behaviour in relation to promotional offerings and the Groups existing accruals impacting the income statement.
experience of payments made against accruals on a three year rolling basis.
Risks include: We have corroborated the time frame for retaining unclaimed promotional accruals Promotional expenses are recorded in the wrong financial year on the Groups balance sheet and the consistency in the application of the Groups The methodology to assess the redemption rates applied in calculating the policy between reporting periods.
level of promotional accruals at 31 March 2016 is inappropriate In assessing changes in key estimates and the Groups policy, we assessed both Redemption rates do not reflect ongoing changes in both consumer the methodologies and rationale applied in determining changes in approach from behaviour and the nature of promotional arrangements prior periods for risk of management override.
We tested subsequent invoices and cash paid after the balance sheet date to This risk was present in the prior year.
detect any unrecorded liabilities in promotional accruals and re-evaluated the approach to determining accrual amounts at year end.
We have tested a sample of payments through the profit and loss account during the year and verified to supplier documentation.
What we concluded to the audit Committee: Based on our audit procedures, the methodology adopted in determining promotional expenditure netted against the revenue recognised is appropriate, and the year-end accrual balance is correctly stated.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 65 The numbers INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF DAIRy CREST GROUP plc CONTINUED risk our response to the risk accounting for the disposal of the dairies operations We have validated managements methodology for all costs included within the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 36 : Accounting policies page 75 : calculation and confirmed that the costs have been appropriately included as they and Notes 7 & 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 87 & 109. relate solely to the disposal of the Dairies business.
Where there are judgments on the quantification of certain items, we have We focused on this area given the material nature of the calculations of the corroborated managements position by reviewing independent advice.
loss on disposal and the performance of the Dairies operations for the period We have audited the underlying results of the business for the period up until up to the disposal in December 2015, which was reported as a single line item disposal through testing where we have sampled transactions of income and in the income statement.
When accounting for discontinued operations, there are certain disclosure We have reviewed the nature and extent of the disclosure in light of the requirements which must be both compliant with IFRS and contain accurate requirements of IFRS, including the disclosure of this matter as a significant statements with respect to the prevailing facts and circumstances.
judgment in the accounting policies section of the Financial Statements.
In the prior year our risk related to the classification of the Dairies operation as We have agreed the consistency of the narrative reporting within the Annual held for sale.
Our current year risk relates to the calculation of the loss on Report and Accounts with the accounting judgment adopted.
disposal as well as the recognition and disclosure of the completed Dairies disposal as a discontinued operation.
What we concluded to the audit Committee: Based on our audit procedures, we have concluded that the disposal of the Dairies business has been recognised and disclosed appropriately in compliance with IFRS and the disclosures reflect the substance of the transaction.
Classification of items as exceptional We have challenged whether items are recorded in line with the Groups policy for Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 36 : Accounting policies page 75 : exceptional items and that the policy has been applied consistently with prior and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 84. years.
In particular, we corroborated the appropriateness of the methodology and Dairy Crest Group considers that the separate reporting of exceptional items rationale supporting the calculation of duplicate running costs in relation to the helps to give a better understanding of the underlying operational performance initiation costs for the demineralised whey powder and GOS projects, through of the Group where items are material and one-off in nature.
vouching incremental expenditure to supporting documentation.
Excluding the disposal of the Dairies business which is discussed above, we We have reviewed the nature of both the income and expenditure items included have focused on the 11.3 million 2014 15 36.3 million, of total net costs that within exceptionals and tested to supporting documentation on a sample basis.
are classified as exceptional in the current year.
We have confirmed that management has adopted a consistent treatment for this classification from the prior year.
Risks include: We specifically considered the level of transparency of the disclosures.
Inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items Inconsistent treatment of exceptional items from year to year Inappropriate quantification of exceptional items This risk was present in the prior year.
What we concluded to the audit Committee: We are satisfied that these items and their classification as exceptional is appropriate and in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items and consistent with the treatment in prior years.
deferred tax asset recognition relating to dairies losses Management has prepared a paper to set out their position, which Ey Corporate Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 36 : Accounting policies page 75 : Tax specialists have considered in light of the prevailing tax legislation.
and Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 85.
We obtained corroborative evidence to support the key judgments highlighted in managements paper supporting their assessment.
Dairy Crest Group has recognised a deferred tax asset of 15.3 million in the We have considered case law with respect to similar instances of tax positions current financial year, that arises from historic losses in the dairies business.
that have been challenged and considered the circumstances in the Dairies In assessing that the deferred tax asset is recoverable, management has operations as compared to these facts.
determined that suitable future profits will be generated against which the We have considered the future profitability of the business in assessing the asset will be utilised.
The key judgments that management has made are summarised in the accounting policies section.
This risk is new for the current year as the deferred tax asset relating to the Dairies losses carried forward arose following the completion of the sale itself.
What we concluded to the audit Committee: Based on our audit procedures, we concluded that managements judgments in relation to deferred tax asset recognition and the disclosures made are appropriate.
We have removed the risk presented in the 2014 2015 audit report In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial relating to assessment of the carrying value of non-current assets.
statements and to achieve adequate quantitative coverage of Following the sale of the Dairies business there is significant significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 34 entities headroom in the remaining Cash Generating Units in the Group and within the Group, we have selected all 3 trading entities, which we have therefore determined there not to be a material risk of represent the principal business units within the Group.
The misstatement in respect of impairment of non-current assets.
remaining entities are either non-trading, holding or dormant entities.
We performed an audit of the financial information of all 3 entities the scope of our audit full scope entities which were selected based on their size or risk tailoring the scope characteristics.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for The reporting entities where we performed audit procedures each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form accounted for 100% 2015: greater than 100% of the Groups profit an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 100% 2015: 94% of the account the level of group revenue and operating profit, risk profile, Groups Revenue and 97% 2015: 97% of the Groups Total assets.
risk determined to be associated based on the grading of internal For the remaining entities within the group, we performed other audit findings, controls findings, historical knowledge and procedures, including analytical review and enquiries of discussions with management and the level of growth in the entity, management to address the residual risk of material misstatement.
the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known factors when assessing the level of Involvement with entity teams work to be performed at each entity.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that the audit work on all in scope locations would be undertaken by the primary team.
66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 our application of materiality reporting threshold We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit being clearly trivial.
and in forming our audit opinion.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them materiality all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 140,000 2014 15: The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in 135,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the our audit procedures.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.8 million other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
2014 2015: 2.7 million, which is 5% 2014 2015: 5% of profit scope of the audit of the financial statements before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
We believe that profit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and before tax, adjusted for the items described in the table below, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable provide us with a consistent year on year basis for determining assurance that the financial statements are free from material materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an stakeholders of the entity and one which management uses as a assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to key performance indicator when reporting to the market.
the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Reported loss before tax 141.2 million 2014 15: directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In 22.1 million profit Starting basis addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that Exceptional items increase basis by 165.1 million 2014 15: 36.3 million is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Loss on Dairies discontinued operations increase with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the basis by 32.8 million 2014 15: 0 million Adjustments Normalisation of property profits decrease basis by audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 0 million 2014 15: 4.8 million or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Take 5% of 56.6 million 2014 15: 53.6 million adjusted profit before tax 2.8 million 2014 15: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement 2.7million Materiality set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality.
Our law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those initial materiality was based on forecast profit before tax, loss from standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards discontinued operations and exceptionals.
Actual materiality was Ethical Standards for Auditors.
0.1 million lower than our initial materiality.
We adjusted the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in allocated performance materiality applied by each component in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. performing our audit procedures.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the performance materiality companys members those matters we are required to state to them The application of materiality at the individual account or balance in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected anyone other than the company and the companys members as a misstatements exceeds materiality.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act judgment was that performance materiality was 75% 2014 15: 2006 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.1 million 2014 15: 2.0 In our opinion: million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to conclude the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act our planning materiality level.
2006: and Audit work at entity locations for the purpose of obtaining audit the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was 2.1 million to 0.525 million 2014 15: 2 million for all entities.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 67 The numbers INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF DAIRy CREST GROUP plc CONTINUED matters on which we are required to report by exception Isas uK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing rules review requirements We are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 61, and longer-term viability, set out on page 61: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception: We have nothing to report in respect of any of the items above.
statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that Would threaten the solvency or Liquidity of the entity Isas uK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Conclusion We have nothing to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above.
anup sodhi Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 18 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dairy Crest Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
