INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Debenhams plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 September 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the financial year the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the annual report and accounts the annual report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 3 September 2016: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 5.9 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Debenhams plc consists of two operating segments UK and International.
Within these two operating segments there are eight reporting units excluding dormant entities, of which five Materiality are considered to be financially significant to the Group.
We performed full scope audits on the five significant reporting units Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Properties Limited, Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited, Debenhams plc and Aktieselskabet Th.
Wessel & Vett Magasin du Nord Magasin du Nord.
Audit scope The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted for 100% of retail revenue and 100% of profit before tax.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual adjustments posted to revenue Areas of and the cut-off of wholesale invoicing to franchise partners.
focus Inventory valuation using the retail method and provisioning for out-of-season inventory.
Goodwill and store asset impairment assessment.
7 74 2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to For both retail and franchise revenue we agreed material manual adjustments posted to revenue and the cut-off manual journal entry adjustments made to revenue to of wholesale invoicing to franchises supporting documentation.
Our work did not identify any See note 2 to the financial statements for the directors significant unexpected or unsupported adjustments.
disclosures of the related revenue recognition accounting policy and page 48 for the views of the Audit Committee.
In Magasin du Nord, the system design was such that, rather than manually trace the journal entries to supporting The Groups revenue relates to both retail trading and documentation, we were able to use data auditing trading with franchise partners.
techniques to trace revenue transactions through the expected transaction flow and to highlight unexpected Retail revenue comprises high volume, low value cash or transactions needing further investigation.
Our review credit debit card transactions where the principal risk of of transactions did not highlight any significant fraud and manual error comes from the ability to unexpected items.
manipulate the results through posting manual journals outside of the standard automated transaction flow and In addition, for franchise revenue, we tested a sample of therefore not subject to the main controls over revenue.
sales transactions back to supporting documentation such The Group uses manual journals to post accounting as cash receipts or purchase orders and goods despatched adjustments including adjusting concessions sales so as to notes to ascertain the point at which the revenue should be remove the element of the sale that is due to the recorded and to make sure it is in the correct period.
Our concession partner: for deferral of revenue where sale of testing noted that Debenhams is entitled to recognise goods online are not yet despatched at the year end, and sales on despatch of the goods in line with the franchise adjustments for staff discounts and refund provisions.
This agreements, and all items tested had been despatched in risk is applicable to Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams advance of the year end.
We also obtained confirmation of Retail Ireland Limited and Magasin du Nord as these are a sample of year end accounts receivable balances with no the only reporting units which generate retail revenue.
Franchise revenue comprises revenue from the sale of inventory to franchise partners for sale in overseas franchise stores and franchise fees for the use of the Debenhams brand by overseas franchise partners.
The principal risk of fraud and manual error in franchise revenue comes from manual journals as noted above.
There is also a risk that management could materially manipulate franchise revenue figures through forcing sales or invoicing the franchises in the incorrect period artificially inflating revenue for the current year.
Franchise sales are only recognised in Debenhams Retail plc.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory valuation using the retail method and Due to the reliance management places on the various provisioning for out-of-season inventory stock systems used within the Group, we evaluated the IT Refer to pages 46 to 49 Audit Committee report and note controls over the relevant systems and tested the internal 5 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of controls over the inventory valuation process including the the critical accounting estimates and judgements related to process of recording inventory on receipt and agreement the valuation of inventory.
of inventory invoices to proof of receipt and purchase orders.
This work gave us assurance over the processing of The valuation of inventory in the UK and Ireland is the inputs into managements margin calculations which determined using the retail method.
This is an industry are the basis of the inventory valuation.
specific accounting method used to derive a weighted average product cost.
This method relies on a number We also tested interfaces between the Groups systems to of inputs including selling price, assumed margin ensure that sales prices used in the valuation were and quantity.
The methodology is also impacted by consistent with those prices in the store till system.
Our the timing of processing markdowns which could testing did not note any issues between systems.
Due to differences We obtained evidence over the quantities of inventory in the systems used, inventory in Magasin du Nord through assessing the Groups controls by attending a is valued using a cost based method which is less sample of inventory counts at stores and distribution complex and therefore this risk is not applicable centres and reviewing the results of those counts not to that reporting unit.
No significant issues were noted regarding Furthermore, the ongoing pressure on consumer spending existence or accuracy of inventory.
within the retail sector continues to create competition on We reviewed departmental level margins against the the high street, especially in non-essential categories such prior year margins for unusual fluctuations, with none as fashion.
This could put pressure on the level of out-ofbeing identified.
season stock identified for markdown within the Group.
As such there is a risk that the realisable value of inventory will We also assessed the level of out-of-season inventory at be lower than its recorded cost.
This risk is relevant to the year end, including testing managements controls in Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited relation to classifying inventory as current, continuity and Magasin du Nord as these are the only reporting units inventory with no season or out-of-season inventory.
also assessed the spend on mark downs in the month following the year-end and the level of out-of-season inventory at the end of this period to check the reasonableness of the judgement involved in the markdown provisions applied to the year-end inventory valuation.
Our testing noted that the controls in place were operating effectively for the purposes of our audit and no unusual patterns were noted through examining post yearend markdowns.
74 76 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and store asset impairment assessment We tested that the impairment models used by Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the directors management for both goodwill and store impairment were disclosures of the critical accounting estimates and mathematically correct with no issues noted.
judgements related to the goodwill impairment We challenged the directors on the inputs into their assessment and notes 14 & 15 for further details on the impairment assessment calculations, including: impairment test.
The directors key assumptions for short-term sales The UK retail market continues to evolve rapidly, with growth rates from 0.0% to 4.0%, by comparing them to customers purchasing habits adapting to include online historical results and the prospects for the stores, offerings and other convenience options, and there is a risk business and industry and noted that the rates used do that this could impact the recoverable value of assets used not appear to be unreasonable: within the store portfolio.
The directors key assumptions for long-term sales growth rates of 2.0%, by comparing this to historical Management considers each store to be a cash-generating results, and economic and industry forecasts and note unit CGU and has performed a discounted cash flow that the rates used in managements calculations were impairment assessment at CGU level to ensure that the store in line with this data: and assets are supported by its expected future cash flows.
The discount rate post tax rate of 7.1%, by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable We focused on this area because of the significant carrying organisations, forming a view of risk premiums as value of store assets within the Group and the judgement appropriate.
Having performed this assessment we used in managements impairment assessment including believe this is an appropriate discount rate.
assumptions over future growth rates and discount rate.
This risk is relevant to Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Having challenged these assumptions, we focused further Retail Ireland Limited and Magasin du Nord as these are discussions with management on stores where there were the only entities that have store assets.
lower levels of profitability or little headroom in the The Group balance sheet also includes 818.9 million of impairment assessment, and as such we considered the risk goodwill which relates primarily to the acquisition in of impairment to be greater.
For those stores that were December 2003 of the Debenhams Group by Debenhams identified as higher risk, we understood managements plc.
Managements assessment of the store portfolio as support for the carrying value of store assets and agreed detailed above is used to form the basis of the goodwill that the carrying value was appropriate.
impairment review and is therefore subject to the same We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions as the store impairment review above.
assumptions including the short-term growth rates and We focused on this area due to the changes noted in discount rates as these are the key assumptions in the the retail market as detailed above.
This risk is relevant impairment model and noted that whilst the calculations are to Debenhams Retail plc and Debenhams Retail Ireland most sensitive to changes in short-term growth rates, there is Limited as these are the only entities with goodwill sufficient headroom for this not to result in impairments included on their balance sheet.
being required when using the sensitivities we applied.
We found, based on our audit work, that the key assumptions used by management were supportable and appropriate in light of the current environment.
Defined benefit pension plans We evaluated the pension liability assumptions, including Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the directors discount rates, salary increases, inflation and mortality, disclosures on the critical accounting estimates and utilising our internal actuarial specialists.
We considered judgements related to the defined benefit pension plans and and challenged the reasonableness of the actuarial note 24 for detailed disclosures in relation to these plans.
assumptions comparing the discount and inflation rates used to our internally developed benchmark ranges, The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which finding them to be within an acceptable range.
comprise total pension assets of 1,057.6 million and total pension liabilities of 1,061.7 million.
The valuation of the Both plans are closed to new entrants: the accuracy of pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and census data used to calculate the liability at the date of technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
each triennial valuation was tested by agreeing a sample of Changes in a number of the key assumptions including individuals details to the Groups personnel records.
inflation, discount rates, and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
This risk is relevant to Debenhams Retail plc as this is the only entity which has defined benefit pension schemes.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 75 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The Group is structured into two operating segments UK and International.
These operating segments consist of eight reporting units excluding dormant entities.
Our audit approach was based on the underlying reporting units within the two operating segments.
We considered there to be five financially significant reporting units - Debenhams Retail plc, Debenhams Properties Limited, Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited, Debenhams plc and Magasin du Nord.
The five financially significant reporting units were audited by the UK Group team with the exception of Magasin du Nord which was audited by PwC Denmark as component auditor operating under our instruction.
Audit work was performed over the consolidation process and tax at a consolidated Group level.
Where the work was performed by the component auditor, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
As part of our year end procedures, we held detailed discussions with the Magasin du Nord component audit team including update calls on the progress of their fieldwork and attending the clearance meeting with management by conference call.
The reporting units where we performed full scope audit work accounted for 100% of retail revenue and 100% of Group profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 5.9 million 2015: 5.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2015: 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
76 78 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 71, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as to report.
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the annual report on pages 46 to 49, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 20 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the material to add or to Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency draw attention to.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing being managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 70 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they material to add or to have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to draw attention to.
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC GROUP CONTINUED CONTINUED Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 71, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the financial year ended 3 September 2016 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
JOHN ELLIS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS LONDON 27 OCTOBER 2016 78 80 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
