Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Report on the Financial Statements Our Opinion In our opinion: Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What We Have Audited The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2016: the Company Statement of Financial Position as at 30 June 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity for the year then ended: the Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
100 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 100 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Financial Statements Our Audit Approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 1.6 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for nonunderlying and exceptional items save for amortisation relating to the intangible assets adjusted profit before tax.
Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Group financial statements we performed audits of the complete financial information of 18 reporting units and specified procedures for a further two reporting units.
In addition the Group engagement team audited the Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering derivative financial instruments, corporate taxation, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
The components on which audits of the complete financial information and centralised work was performed accounted for 94% of Group revenue and 92% of adjusted profit before tax.
As part of our supervision process, the Group engagement team have visited or have performed the audit of significant components, in addition to performing the audits of the in scope UK reporting locations.
We also visited the component auditors in Croatia following the acquisition of Genera d. d. during the year.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: Assessment of the acquired balance sheet and fair value accounting for the significant acquisitions.
Assessment of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets.
The Scope of Our Audit and Our Areas of Focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Stock Code: DPH 101 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 101 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the accounting position adopted on the opening Intangible assets We obtained the cash flow forecasts balance sheet accounting for the Genera, Brovel and Putney supporting the intangible assets identified and agreed that these acquisitions were consistent with those approved by the Board as part of the acquisition process.
For sales volumes and margin data Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 74, the critical we tested that the relevant assumptions were consistent to the accounting estimates and judgements in note 1 b to the accounts historical performance of each of the acquired businesses.
We on page 112, and note 31 Acquisitions.
assessed the validity of new products being made available The Group completed the following acquisitions during the year: for sale through independent research as to the accessibility and marketability of similar products.
We corroborated that Genera d. d. on 21 October 2015: development costs have been appropriately included based Laboratorios Brovel S. A. fide C. V. on 13 January 2016: and on actual costs previously incurred on comparable products developed by the Group.
We engaged our valuation specialists who benchmarked within We focused on this area because the accounting for business a reasonable range that the growth assumptions were in line combinations including the respective provisional opening balance with industry expectation and the specific geographical locations sheet position is inherently judgemental.
in which the business operates.
Our valuation specialists also IFRS 3 revised requires that consideration is given to the existence agreed that the discount rates were consistent to those applied and measurement of separable identifiable intangible assets by companies of comparable size and within the relevant industry.
that have been acquired as part of each respective acquisition Land and buildings We engaged our valuation specialists who agreement.
For both Genera d. d. Genera and Putney Inc. Putney, agreed that both key assumptions were within a reasonable significant value has been attributed to the brand and product range.
The building construction costs were agreed as portfolio, the recognition of which is dependent on cash flow consistent with average data available for industrial property forecasts including future business growth, product development development within Central and Eastern European countries and the application of an appropriate discount rate, all of which are and the land discount was compared with the value of sites sold subjective.
which are similar in size and nature.
The land and property acquired was restated to fair value.
This Inventory We have corroborated the respective selling costs required the use of assumptions including building construction by agreeing to sales invoices and agreeing that these costs costs and the discounted land values within the valuation have been accurately included within the overall calculations methodology.
We attended and undertook physical inventory The accounting standards state that acquired inventory should counts at key locations validating that inventory was being held be recognised at fair value which is equal to the selling price less and accurately recorded.
As part of our physical attendance we costs to sell.
This has resulted in value uplifts to the acquired surveyed the aging and quality of specific inventory items and inventory held in Genera, Putney and Laboratorios Brovel S. A. fide evaluated the local obsolescence policies which adequately C. V. Brovel.
The appropriateness of the fair value adjustments are aligned to the inventory profiles observed.
dependent on the existence and quality of inventory held at the Liabilities We considered the completeness of liabilities acquisition date and the calculation of selling costs.
through our knowledge of the business, by making enquiries We have focused on the completeness of liabilities recorded at the of the Directors, examining correspondence with legal counsel respective acquisition date.
As the recognition of obligations can and reading the respective sale and purchase agreements.
be subject to the extent of information available this can give rise to We performed substantive procedures on material purchase judgement being exercised.
invoices and bank payments post acquisition date and The calculation of deferred tax liabilities arising on the identifiable confirmed that these were correctly recorded.
intangible assets is reliant on the correct application of local Taxation We recalculated the deferred tax liabilities arising on tax rates.
The measurement of deferred taxes is dependent on the acquired intangibles assets and agreed that relevant tax the understanding and application of local tax rules, with the rates have been used.
recognition of any deferred tax assets being judgemental based on the Directors evaluation of recoverability.
We read the prior year tax computations and available correspondence from the respective tax authorities and agreed that all known significant obligations and threats have been suitably considered.
In respect of Putney, the Directors evaluated operating losses which are available to be utilised in future periods.
We agreed the quantum and nature of the losses to prior period tax computations.
We read the local tax rules and verified the accuracy of the calculation as to the losses which can be recognised in line with the rules.
We recalculated the associated deferred tax asset and agreed the recognition of this by confirming the basis of recoverability is consistent with Board approved forecasts.
102 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 102 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets and Acquired intangible assets and other relevant assets We other relevant assets agreed that the basis of the current and future revenue forecasts are consistent with previous performance.
Our valuation Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 74, the critical specialists benchmarked, within a reasonable range, the growth accounting estimates and judgements in note 1 b to the accounts and discount rate to economic and industry averages and the on page 112, and note 11 Intangible assets.
cost of capital for other comparable companies respectively.
We The Directors exercise judgement as towhether impairment have performed sensitivities on a selection of these assumptions triggers, which require a full impairment assessment to be confirming that the level of headroom calculated is not unduly performed, have been identified in relation to acquired intangible susceptible to change.
assets and other relevant assets.
US generic pharmaceutical product We confirmed the Where a full impairment assessment is required to support the accuracy of the impairment charge by tracing the carrying value carrying value of the assets held, the Directors have prepared a to the asset ledger.
We validated the appropriateness of the discounted cash flow which includes a number of assumptions.
Directors conclusion to fully impair the asset by obtaining and The assumptions which are deemed to be the most significant in reading a copy of the FDA approval supporting the Directors respect of these forecasts are the current and future performance explanation as to the preferability of the comparable drug and as of individual products.
The long term growth and discount rate are such supporting the strategic decision to stop developing this also considered to be subjective.
The Directors recorded an impairment charge of 3.3 million relating to a US generic pharmaceutical product.
The Directors have concluded that this asset is impaired following the acquisition of Putney and a review of products acquired.
It was established that a comparable drug is produced by Putney which already held FDA approval.
Therefore a decision was taken to stop developing this product resulting in a full impairment of the associated asset value.
The impairment charge is material to the financial statements and is dependent on the accurate assessment of the Putney products and their purpose.
How We Tailored the Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along three segments being European Pharmaceuticals, North American Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, with each division set up to manage operations on both a regional and functional basis, consisting of a number of reporting units.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 25 active reporting units comprising the groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
These reporting units maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in the UK.
Accordingly, of the Groups 25 active reporting units we identified 18 which, in our view, required a full audit of their complete financial information in order to ensure that sufficient audit evidence was obtained.
The reporting units on which a full audit of their complete financial information was performed accounted for 94% of Group revenue and 92% of adjusted profit before tax.
Of these reporting units, two were considered to be significant components due to their size: the Dechra Veterinary Products trading entities in Denmark and the USA.
In addition to the significant components, 16 active non-significant reporting units were subjected to a full scope audit, five located in the UK, seven which are accounted for at the shared service centre in Denmark, and one located in the US, the Netherlands, Germany and Croatia respectively, were conducted such that the audit work was complete prior to the finalisation of the Group Financial Statements either by the Group engagement team or by PwC network firms in those territories, operating under our instruction.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed on a further two reporting units.
Stock Code: DPH 103 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 103 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC continued The Group consolidation, Financial Statements disclosures and a number of centralised functions were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included, but were not limited to, central procedures on derivative financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation and goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
We also performed Group level analytical procedures on all of the remaining out of scope active reporting units to identify whether any further audit evidence was needed, which resulted in no extra testing being required.
The Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
The Group engagement team visits  onsignificance and or risk characteristics, to ensure coverage across the Group.
The group engagement team are responsible for the audit of all in scope UK reporting locations performing full scope audits.
The Group engagement team have visited or have performed the audit of all significant components, in addition to visiting the non-significant component of Croatia.
Additionally the Group audit team was in contact, at each stage of the audit, in line with detailed instructions issued and through global planning calls and further regular written communication.
Specifically, for all component teams, the Group team discussed in detail the planned audit approach at the component level, were in attendance at local audit close meetings and following independent review, discussed the detailed reported findings of the audit with each component team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 1.6 million Overall Group materiality 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-underlying and exceptional items save for amortisation relating to the How we intangible assets.
determined it We believe that profit before tax adjusted for transaction costs incurred provides a consistent basis for determining Rationale for materiality as it eliminates the impact of these items which fluctuate year on year and can have a disproportionate benchmark applied impact on the Consolidated Income Statement.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 100,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
104 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 104 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Financial Statements Other Required Reporting Consistency of Other Information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 75, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 67, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors Assessment of the Prospects of the Group and of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 70 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to add the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 70 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have or to draw attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Stock Code: DPH 105 24769.04 5 September 2016 3:41 PM proof 1 Dechra Annual Report Back 2016. indd 105 05 09 2016 17:30:36 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Adequacy of Accounting Records and Information and Explanations Received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report - Companies Act 2006 Opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit Our Responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an Audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Hammond Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 5 September 2016 106 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
