Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 89 Our audit approach INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Overview Materiality REPORT TO THE MEMBERS Overall group materiality: 140 million, which represents 5% of OF DIAGEO plc profit before taxation and exceptional items as defined in note 4 to the group financial statements.
Report on the financial statements Our opinion Audit scope We conducted full scope audit work in ten countries in which the In our opinion: group has significant operations.
Our work also covered the four Diageo plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view group shared service centres.
of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and 30 June 2016 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year transactions in six countries, as well as over Mot Hennessy, the then ended: groups principal associate.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared During the year, the group engagement team visited all countries in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards where full scope audits were performed, all shared service centres IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and two of the countries where audits of specific balances and the company financial statements have been properly prepared in transactions took place.
They also visited the Mot Hennessy accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting audit team.
Practice: and Areas of focus the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Presentation of exceptional items, including business disposals.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Provisions and contingent liabilities.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has Post-employment benefit obligations.
also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Standards Board IASB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion, the group financial statements comply with IFRSs on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, What we have audited we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved comprise: making assumptions and considering future events that are the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2016: inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk the company balance sheet as at 30 June 2016: of management override of internal controls, including evaluating the consolidated income statement and the consolidated whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out then ended: how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to the statement of changes in equity for the company for the year provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any then ended: and comments we make on the results of our procedures should be the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 90 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 4 Exceptional items, of the groups CGUs and tested the operation of the groups controls and note 10 Intangible assets.
over the impairment assessment process, which we found to be The group has goodwill of 2,699 million, indefinite-lived satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
Our audit procedures included challenging management on the brand intangibles of 8,079 million and other intangible assets of 1,592 million as at 30 June 2016, contained within 21 cash appropriateness of the impairment model and reasonableness of generating units CGUs.
the assumptions used, with particular attention paid to Ypica, USL, Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be tested Greater China and Meta, through performing the following: for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The determination of benchmarking Diageos key market-related assumptions in the recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value models, including discount rates, long term growth rates and less costs to dispose, requires judgement on the part of foreign exchange rates, against external data, using our management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant valuation expertise: CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of assessing the reliability of cash flow forecasts through a review of variables and market conditions such as future price and volume actual past performance and comparison to previous forecasts: growth rates, the timing of future operating expenditure, and the testing the mathematical accuracy and performing sensitivity most appropriate discount and long term growth rates.
analyses of the models: With challenging trading conditions in certain territories, the understanding the commercial prospects of the assets, and where groups performance and prospects have been impacted.
As a possible comparison of assumptions with external data sources: result, impairment charges have been recognised in the year ended and 30 June 2016.
A pre-tax impairment charge of 118 million was recognised in respect of the Ypica brand intangible and Paraguay, for USL, assessing the reasonableness of assumptions compared Uruguay and Brazil PUB CGU goodwill.
to the original fair value model and performance since acquisition.
In addition, CGUs containing the USL goodwill, Greater China We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the related goodwill and Meta brand have been determined by management disclosures in note 4 and note 10 of the group financial statements, to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the assumptions including the sensitivities provided with respect to USL, Greater used, which could result in the calculated recoverable amount being China and Meta, and considered these reasonable.
lower than the carrying value of the CGU.
Additional sensitivity Based on our procedures, we noted no material exceptions disclosures have been included in the group financial statements and considered managements key assumptions to be within in respect of these CGUs.
Taxation matters We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 7 Taxation, of identifying uncertain tax positions, which we found to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
We also evaluated the and note 18 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
The group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is related accounting policy for provisioning for tax exposure and subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of found it to be appropriate.
tax matters during the normal course of business, including transfer We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor pricing, direct and indirect taxes, and transaction related tax matters.
As at 30 June 2016, the group has current taxes payable of 340 developments in ongoing disputes.
We read recent rulings and million, deferred tax assets of 298 million and deferred tax liabilities correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice of 1,982 million.
received by the group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the the latest external developments.
probable amount of the liability.
The group has also undertaken We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular on a number of disposal transactions during the year which has cases where there had been significant developments with tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from our expectations.
resulted in a net exceptional tax charge of 56 million.
We focused on the judgements made by management in We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in assessing the quantification and likelihood of potentially material note 7 and note 18 of the group financial statements, and exposures and therefore the level of provision required.
In particular considered these reasonable.
we focused on the impact of changes in local tax regulations and ongoing inspections by local tax authorities, which could materially impact the amounts recorded in the group financial statements.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 91 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Presentation of exceptional items, including business disposals of exceptional items, which we found to be satisfactory for the Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 4 purposes of our audit.
We considered the judgements within managements accounting papers for the business disposals and other one-off In the past few years the group has had significant levels of exceptional items that are disclosed separately within the transactions, and obtained corroborative evidence for the items consolidated income statement and are excluded from presented within exceptional items.
This included the timing of managements reporting of the underlying results of the business.
recognition and nature of costs associated with the business The nature of these exceptional items is explained within the disposals.
group accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, gains We challenged managements rationale for the designation or losses arising on acquisitions or disposals, impairment charges of certain items as exceptional and assessed such items against or reversals, and costs resulting from non-recurring legal or the groups accounting policy.
For the disposal transactions, we read underlying contractual This year the group has identified 167 million of net operating and other agreements and verified that the accounting papers, and exceptional costs and 123 million of non-operating exceptional associated calculations prepared by management, reflected the income before tax, which relate primarily to: substance of these.
We also vouched the receipt of net proceeds impairment charges 118 million : received, where applicable.
No material exceptions were identified.
We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the the gain on sale of the groups shareholdings in D&G Jamaican disclosures in note 4 and other related notes of the group financial Red Stripe business and GAPL Singapore and Malaysia beer statements, and checked that these reflected the output of business 457 million : and managements accounting papers, noting no significant deviations the loss on sale of the groups wine interests in the United States from our expectations.
We also considered whether there were items that were recorded Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified within underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in by management as exceptional met the definition of the groups nature and should have been included within exceptional items.
accounting policy and have been treated consistently, as the No such material items were identified.
identification of such items requires judgement by management.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting.
Provisions and contingent liabilities We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 14 d Working capital of litigation and regulatory procedures, which we found provisions and note 18 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group faces a number of threatened and actual legal Our procedures included the following: and regulatory cases.
There is a high level of judgement required where relevant, reading external legal advice obtained in estimating the level of provisioning and or the level of by management: disclosure required.
discussing open matters and developments with the group general counsel and regional general counsel: meeting with regional and local management and reading subsequent correspondence: assessing and challenging managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and circularising relevant third party legal representatives and follow up discussions, where appropriate, on certain material cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, whilst noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal and regulatory matters, we determined that the level of provisioning at 30 June 2016 to be appropriate.
We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 14 d and note 18 of the group financial statements, and believed these to be reasonable.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 92 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Post employment benefit obligations Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 13 post of post employment benefit obligations, which we found to be employment benefits.
satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group has approximately 40 defined benefit post We used our actuarial specialists to assess whether the assumptions used in calculating the liabilities for the United employment plans.
The total present value of obligations is 9,447 million at 30 June 2016, which is significant in the context Kingdom, Ireland and North America pension plans were reasonable, of the overall balance sheet of the group.
The groups most by performing the following: significant plans are in the United Kingdom, Ireland and assessing whether salary increases and mortality rate assumptions, North America.
were consistent with the specifics of each plan and, where The valuation of pension plan liabilities requires judgement applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks: in determining appropriate assumptions such as salary increase, verifying that the discount and inflation rates used were consistent mortality rates, discount rates, inflation levels and the impact of any with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with other changes in individual pension plans.
Movements in these companies recent external reporting: and assumptions can have a material impact on the determination reviewing the calculations prepared by external actuaries to assess of the liability.
Management uses external actuaries to assist the consistency of the assumptions used.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within reasonable ranges.
How we tailored the audit scope Together, the central and component locations at which work was We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed performed by the group engagement team and component auditors accounted for 74% of consolidated net sales, 85% of the consolidated enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure total assets, and 63% of the consolidated profit before tax and of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry exceptional items, with work performed by the group engagement in which the group operates.
team over exceptional items contributing a further 6% coverage over the consolidated profit before tax total of 69%.
At the group level, The group operates as 21 geographically based markets across five regions, and the supply and the corporate functions.
These we also carried out analytical and other procedures on the reporting markets report through a significant number of individual reporting components not covered by the procedures described above.
components, which are supported by the groups four principal Where the work was performed by component auditors, including by our shared service centre auditors, we determined the shared service centres in Hungary, Kenya, Colombia and the Philippines.
The outputs from these shared service centres are level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those included in the financial information of the reporting components locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit they service, and therefore are not separate reporting components.
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal, written determined the type of work that needed to be performed at instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be reporting components by us, as the group engagement team, or performed by each of them and maintained regular communication component auditors from either other PwC network firms or throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
This included component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, consideration of the procedures required to be performed by our as well as reviewing and assessing matters reported.
audit teams at the groups shared service centres to support our Senior members of the group engagement team also visited all component auditors.
component locations in scope for an audit of their complete financial We identified three reporting components which, in our view, information, as well as three of the shared centre locations and two required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their of the countries where audits of specific balances and transactions financial significance to the group.
Those reporting components took place, and met with the Mot Hennessy audit team.
These were North America, USL and the supply operations in Scotland.
visits included meetings with local management and with the A further 13 reporting components had an audit of their complete component auditors, as well as certain operating site tours.
The financial information, either due to their size or their risk group engagement partners also attended the year-end clearance characteristics, which included operating six and treasury four meetings for North America, USL and Scotland, and the group reporting components.
We audited specific balances and engagement team reviewed the audit working papers for transactions at a further seven reporting components, including the these components.
financial information of Mot Hennessy, the groups principal associate, primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
The work Materiality performed at each of the four shared services centres, including The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of testing of transaction processing and controls, supported the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
financial information of the reporting components they serve.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to Certain specific audit procedures over central corporate functions determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line and areas of significant judgement, including goodwill and intangible assets, taxation, and material provisions and contingent liabilities, items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, were performed at the groups head office.
We also performed work both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
centrally on systems and IT general controls, consolidation journals and the disposal transactions undertaken by the group during the year.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 93 Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality ISAs UK & Ireland reporting for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Overall group materiality 140 million.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation and exceptions materially inconsistent with the information exceptional items as defined in note 4 to report.
in the audited financial statements: or to the group financial statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or Rationale for We consider an adjusted measure to materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of benchmark applied be one of the principal considerations the group and company acquired in the course for the members of Diageo plc in of performing our audit: or assessing the recurring financial otherwise misleading.
performance of the group as it best the statement given by the directors on page 61, in We have no represents results from underlying accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions operations.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider to report.
Component materiality For each component in our audit the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, scope, we allocated a materiality that balanced and understandable and provides the was less than our overall group information necessary for members to assess the materiality.
The range of materiality groups and companys position and performance, allocated across components was business model and strategy is materially between 7 million and 100 million.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them our audit.
misstatements identified during our audit above 7 million as well We have no as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted the section of the Annual Report on page 64, as reporting for qualitative reasons.
required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not to report.
Going concern appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 61, in relation to going concern.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we of the group have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have to the directors statement about whether they considered it anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw the directors confirmation on page 60 of the We have attention to.
Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 nothing As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded of the Code, that they have carried out a robust material to that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing assessment of the principal risks facing the group, add or to draw the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the including those that would threaten its business attention to.
group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part those risks and explain how they are being nothing of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going managed or mitigated.
material to concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events add or to draw or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee attention to.
as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual We have Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects material to OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING of the group, over what period they have done add or to draw so and why they consider that period to be attention to.
Consistency of other information appropriate, and their statement as to whether Companies Act 2006 opinion they have a reasonable expectation that the group In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and will be able to continue in operation and meet its the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial liabilities as they fall due over the period of their statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 94 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the What an audit of financial statements involves course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and performed our review.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Adequacy of accounting records and information and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an explanations received assessment of: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups in our opinion: and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made adequate accounting records have not been kept by the by the directors: and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the overall presentation of the financial statements.
received from branches not visited by us: or We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors the company financial statements and the part of the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit Directors remuneration evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion procedures or a combination of both.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Companies Act 2006. audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Other Companies Act 2006 reporting with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate governance statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the London Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of 27 July 2016 the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
The maintenance and integrity of the Diageo plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially Our responsibilities and those of the directors presented on the website.
As explained more fully in the Responsibility statement, the directors Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
