Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of DFS furniture plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of DFS Furniture plc for the 52 week period ended 30 July 2016 set out on pages 66 to 94.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 July 2016 and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Guarantee provision 7.9 million 2015: 8.8 million and other provisions 1.8 million 2015: other provisions and long term accruals 1.2 million, Risk vs 2015 Refer to page 45 Audit Committee report, page 74 accounting policy and page 84 financial disclosures.
The risk The guarantee provision totals 7.9 million 2015: 8.8 million and reflects the estimated cost of fulfilling the obligations arising from the product guarantee provided to the retail customers.
The directors apply judgement in determining the provision model and make assumptions in respect of its key variables: average cost per claim, volume of claims and period over which the guarantee is likely to be called.
The other provisions of 1.8 million 2015: 1.2 million included in long term accruals represent the best estimate of the value of refunds to customers in respect of payment protection insurance policies and other regulatory costs.
We focused on these areas as significant judgement is required by the directors in determining the assumptions.
Our response Our procedures included critically assessing the assumptions applied in calculating the value of the guarantee provision.
We compared expected volume of calls and average cost per claim included in the provision model against historical data.
We inspected the guarantee record to evaluate the period over which the guarantee is likely to be called.
For the provision for refunds in respect of payment protection policies, we challenged the assumptions used to determine the expected volume and value of claims through a comparison with historical trends and our assessment of the volume of claims yet to be filed.
We tested the assumptions over the volume and settlement value of claims by agreeing it to supporting documentation.
For the provision for other regulatory costs we inspected correspondence between the Group and other parties, such as legal advisers, and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions made by the directors taking into consideration our own expectations based on our experience of similar risks.
We continue to perform procedures over property related provisions and long term accruals 2015:4.7m.
However, following a reassessment of the level of judgment applied to the key assumptions used in determining those amounts they have not been assessed as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, are not separately identified in our report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.2 million 2015: 3.0 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 64.5 million.
Materiality represents 5.0% of the Group profit before tax 2015: Group profit before tax excluding non-underlying items, 5.0%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 160,000 2015: 150,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups nine 2015: eight reporting components, the Group audit team subjected all nine 2015: eight to audits for group reporting purposes.
The audits undertaken at the reporting components was performed to a materiality level which ranged from 0.1 million to 2.4 million 2015: 0.1 million and 3.0 million, having regard to the size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
indb 64 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of viability on page 19, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the four years to 2020: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements on page 71 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and risk committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 19 and 71, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 5 October 2016 65
