Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 17 Dignity plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc for the 53 week period ended 30 December 2016 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: Dignity plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the 53 week period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Dignity plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 December 2016 Company balance sheet as at 30 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the 53 week period then ended Statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 53 week Related notes to the financial statements period then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the 53 week period then ended Related notes to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition.
Specifically risks around incorrect revenue cut-off at year end, the misstatement that had inappropriate recording of revenue for services not delivered, and the risk of inappropriate management override of the greatest effect on our the amount of revenue recorded.
overall audit strategy and The risk of fraud and management override.
Specifically risks inherent in those areas where manual journals are posted the allocation of resources at head office as part of the financial statement close process.
in the audit Audit scope We performed an audit on the consolidated financial records of the Group to the materiality and performance materiality described below.
Materiality Overall Group materiality was 3.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described opposite as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 18 Dignity plc 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The risk of inappropriate revenue recognition Our audit has identified, We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition, including the Based upon the procedures and addressed, specific timing of revenue recognition: performed we are satisfied that risks around incorrect revenue, as presented in the Annual We evaluated the controls in the IT systems that support the recording of revenue: revenue cut-off at year end, Report & Accounts, is not materially We performed detailed cut-off testing on the provision of funerals and cremations the inappropriate recording misstated.
delivered around the period end: of revenue for services not delivered, and the risk of We performed detailed cut-off testing on the marketing allowances arising on inappropriate management pre-arranged funeral plans issued around the period end: override of the amount of We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with revenue recorded.
expectations from past experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, Refer to the Accounting external market data in respect of the numbers of deaths in the period and policies pages74 to 81 :and obtained corroborative evidence to support divergences from our expectations: Note 3 of the Consolidated We reconciled the aggregate revenue amounts extracted from the front end sales Financial Statements systems to revenue recorded in the general ledger and audited material pages 82 to 84. reconciling items that arose therefrom: and We identified and obtained support for journals generated at head office impacting revenue.
The risk of fraud and management override We considered the risks We performed data analytics to identify journal entries that we believed to be Based on the results of the inherent in those areas potentially unusual.
We obtained supporting evidence for each of those journals procedures performed, including where manual journals identified: and journal entry testing, we have not are posted at head office identified any anomalies.
We have performed audit procedures in respect of each of the estimates listed as part of the financial to identity evidence of management bias.
statement close process and in particular in respect of subjective areas which we considered to be most susceptible to management override.
These areas were considered to be the bad debt provision, pre-need cancellation provision, dilapidations provision and cost accruals.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and performance materiality determines our audit scope.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
The group finance function operates from head office and has common financial systems, processes and centralised controls covering all of its operations and individual locations.
The audit of the group is undertaken by one audit team and the group audit has been performed on the consolidated financial records to the materiality and performance materiality described below.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.7 million 2015: 3.4 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax is the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.8 million 2015: 2.6 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2015: 0.2 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 19 Dignity plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc continued for the 53 week period ended 30 December 2016 We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity Remco Section 2016 Q9 tp RF66100 Q8 P02 30 03 2017 13:35 Page 20 Dignity plc 69 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 65, and longer-term viability, set out on page 31: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in We have nothing material to relation to: add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Simon ONeill Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 8 March 2017 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dignity plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
