94 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC Opinion on financial statements of Diploma PLC the Directors explanation on page 30 as to how they have In our opinion: assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to 30 September 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due then ended: over the period of their assessment, including any related the Group financial statements have been properly prepared disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications in accordance with International Financial Reporting or assumptions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or Disclosure Framework: and conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the financial statements have been prepared in accordance as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Independence IAS Regulation.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Financial services referred to in those standards.
Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 29 and the Group Accounting policies.
This also Our assessment of risks of material misstatement comprises the Company Statement of Financial Position, the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Company Statement of Changes in Equity and its related notes are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the a to d. The financial reporting framework that has been allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is the engagement team.
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in For each of these risks we assessed whether the key controls, the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements which are in place to prevent material misstatements in the is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial statements, were designed appropriately.
In addition, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, we assessed that the implementation of these controls was, in including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
practice, effective in preventing such material misstatements.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal These matters were addressed in the context of our audit risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern on these matters.
basis of accounting contained on page 63 and the Directors statement on the longer term viability of the Group contained Last year our report included one other risk which is not included within the Strategic Report on page 30. this year: appropriateness of trade receivables provisioning.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: This risk was no longer one of the areas which had the greatest impact on our audit strategy.
The majority of the Groups the Directors confirmation on page 30 that they have carried receivables are current and the level of bad debt write-offs has out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the fallen on the prior year.
The amount of overdue debt as a Group, including those that would threaten its business percentage of gross debtors has also fallen on the prior year.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The policy applied in calculating the receivable provision the disclosures on pages 31 to 33 that describe those risks remained consistent.
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the Directors Report about The description of the below risks should be read in conjunction whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their discussed on page 45. identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 95 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recoverability of goodwill and assessment for impairment We have obtained managements goodwill impairment review Refer also to page 43 Audit Committee Report, page 87 for calculations and assessed the mechanical accuracy of the the Group Accounting Policies and note 10 of the consolidated model.
Furthermore, we challenged the assumptions and financial statements page 72. inputs used in the impairment model including the cash flow projections, discount rates, cash-generating unit allocation, long As at the year end the Group held an aggregate of 115.2m of term growth rates and the sensitivities applied and disclosed.
goodwill 2015: 89.3m on the Statement of Financial Position and, as such, it is the most significant asset class.
This goodwill Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with has been recognised in respect of acquisitions that the Group reference to historical trading performance and the Boardhas undertaken in the current and prior years.
approved budget, and consulting with our valuation specialists who benchmarked assumptions such as the discount rate to We consider that the carrying value of goodwill is a key area external macroeconomic and market data.
due to the judgemental inputs involved in the assessment for impairment.
There are a number of such inputs used We challenged managements allocation of cash-generating when assessing for impairment including projected cash units by confirming that it was consistent with prior years, flows, determination of the discount rate, the allocation of assessing whether they still represented the smallest group of cash-generating units, long term growth rates and the assets that generated independent cash flows, and confirmed sensitivities applied.
that the allocation is consistent with how financial information is reported within the business.
The long term growth rate used in the cash flow projections was assessed to check that it did not exceed the average long term growth rate in any territories in which the Group operates.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired by reperforming sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those assumptions arising and the adequacy of the disclosures within the financial statements.
Accounting for acquisitions We have obtained managements calculations for the accounting Refer also to page 43 Audit Committee Report, page 87 for of each acquisition and performed the following procedures: the Group Accounting Policies and note 22 of the consolidated financial statements page 80.
We checked the mathematical accuracy of each acquisition model.
The Group has made two material acquisitions in the year in We assessed the adjustments to assets and liabilities in order WCIS and Cablecraft Limited.
The total combined consideration to bring them to fair value and have held discussions with transferred for these acquisitions was 29.7m and an additional management in order to challenge the completeness of 18.2m of goodwill and 11.7m of intangibles was recognised.
judgements used in determining the value of the goodwill and intangibles and the allocation between these asset classes could, In order to assess the accuracy of the acquired intangible assets if performed inaccurately, lead to a material misstatement.
valuation, we have reviewed the methodology applied in managements calculation and challenged the assumptions Inaccuracy in this judgement could be caused in the behind the calculation including the perpetuity growth rates, following areas: discount rates, and customer retention rates.
We have involved our own internal specialists to assist in our assessment There is significant judgement and complexity involved in and compare the methodology and inputs to standard the allocation of excess consideration over net assets of industry practice.
the acquiree between intangible assets and goodwill.
This includes estimates for perpetuity growth rates, discount rates and customer retention rates.
Management must exercise judgement to accurately measure the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date.
This includes, for example, assessing the amounts required for any additional inventory or receivables provisions.
For more information, please visit: www.
aspx 96 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Diploma PLC continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Appropriateness of inventory obsolescence provisioning We evaluated the recorded inventory obsolescence provision Refer also to page 43 Audit Committee Report, page 87 for the by obtaining managements workings and independently Group Accounting Policies and note 15 of the consolidated recalculating the provision in line with their stated policy.
We challenged the underlying assumptions and completeness of The valuation of inventory as at 30 September 2016 is 66.8m the provision by considering the age and volumes of inventory 2015: 56.6m, recorded net of provisions of 7.8m 2015: relative to expected usage.
Any aged inventory lines which were 5.9m.
High levels of inventory are held across the Group, which excluded from managements calculation were also challenged gives rise to a greater risk of there being slow moving or in order to further verify completeness of the provision.
Therefore, we have determined that there is a key risk that inventory is recorded in excess of its net Managements historical ability to estimate the required realisable value due to insufficient obsolescence provisions.
inventory obsolescence provision was assessed by comparing write-offs during the period to the prior period provision.
Management judgement is required in determining the completeness of inventory provisions and making an Furthermore, we compared the actual sales value of a sample of assessment of their adequacy, considering the age and volumes inventory items to their book value to ascertain that the carrying of inventory relative to expected usage.
value of inventories does not exceed their net realisable value.
Changes to these assumptions could result in a material change in the carrying value of inventory and the associated movements recorded in the income statement.
Our application of materiality The Group audit team has designed and implemented a country We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the visit programme so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another financial statements that makes it probable that the economic senior member of the Group audit team visits the component decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be locations to hold discussions with the lead partner, review their changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the working papers, conclude on any findings and attend close out scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our meetings with local management.
Each year this programme of work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.7m visits includes the three most significant territories being the 2015: 2.7m, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax US, Canada and UK.
Where no visits are carried out the Senior Statutory Auditor or Profit before tax has been chosen for the basis for materiality another senior member of the team has held discussions with as this is the measure by which stakeholders and the market the lead partner and attended close out meetings by phone.
assess the wider performance of the entity and is the key metric that current and potential investors monitor when making their At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process financial decisions.
and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement Audit of all components are performed at a materiality level in the aggregated financial information of the remaining not exceeding 50% of Group materiality in both 2016 and 2015. components not subject to audit or specified audit procedures.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 130,000 Companies Act 2006 2015: 53,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, In our opinion: in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Having assessed the facts and circumstances of the Group and the the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be prior history of misstatements, we determined that an increase audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the in this threshold from the prior year was appropriate.
We also Companies Act 2006: and report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we the information given in the Strategic Report and the identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial financial statements.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Matters on which we are required to report by exception the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you level and where these are most likely to occur in the business.
if, in our opinion: Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 12 2015: 11 locations, with the we have not received all the information and explanations increase from the prior year due to the acquisition of Cablecraft we require for our audit: or Limited.
Each of these 12 locations was subject to a full scope adequate accounting records have not been kept by the audit.
An additional eight 2015: eight locations were subject to parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have specified audit procedures which address each of the significant not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in balances and key audit risks within these entities.
Together the work at these locations represents the principal business units agreement with the accounting records and returns.
of the Group and accounts for 75% 2015: 75% of the Groups revenues and 80% 2015: 80% of the Groups operating profit.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 97 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give have not been made or the part of the Remuneration reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Committee Report to be audited is not in agreement with the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have nothing to report This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting arising from these matters.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Corporate Governance Statement and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial our review.
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications in the Annual Report is: for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements: or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired London in the course of performing our audit: or United Kingdom otherwise misleading.
21 November 2016 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team andindependent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
aspx 98 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Subsidiaries of Diploma PLC Group Group percentage Country of percentage Country of of equity incorporation or of equity incorporation or capital registration capital registration Life Sciences Controls Somagen Diagnostics Inc. 100% Canada IS Rayfast Limited 100% England AMT Surgical Inc. 100% Canada IS Motorsport Inc. 100% USA 1 Vantage Endoscopy Inc. 100% Canada Amfast Limited 100% England Big Green Surgical Company Pty 100% Australia Specialty Fasteners Limited 100% England Limited Clarendon Engineering Supplies 100% England 1 Diagnostic Solutions Pty Limited 100% Australia Limited Diploma Healthcare Group NZ 100% New Zealand Cabletec Interconnect Component 100% England 1 Limited Systems Limited Sommer GmbH 100% Germany Techno-Path Distribution Limited 90% Ireland A1-CBISS Limited 100% England Filcon Electronic GmbH 100% Germany a1-envirosciences GmbH 100% Germany Ascome SARL 100% France 1 a1-Envirosciences Limited 100% England Cablecraft Limited 100% England 1 3 Hitek Limited 100% England Birch Valley Plastics Limited 100% England 1 3 Hitek Group Limited 100% England Krempfast Limited 100% England 1 Betaduct Limited 100% England Seals Hawco Limited 100% England HB Sealing Products Inc. 100% USA 1 Abbeychart Limited 100% England J Royal US, Inc. 100% USA 1 HA Wainwright Limited 100% England HKX Inc. 100% USA 1 Microtherm Limited 100% England All Seals Inc. 100% USA 1 Hawco Refrigeration Limited 100% England RTD Seals Corp 100% USA 1 Microtherm UK Limited 100% England HB Sealing Products Limited 100% Canada 1 IS Group Europe Limited 100% England M Seals A S 90% Denmark Clarendon Specialty Fasteners 100% England M Seals AB 90% Sweden 1 Limited M Seals NCL Limited 100% England Specialty Fasteners & Components 100% England Diploma Tianjin Trading Co. 100% China 1 Limited Limited Interconnect Components Services 100% England FPE Seals Limited 100% England 1 Group Limited 1 A.
Seals Limited 100% England 1 Cabletec Flexibles Limited 100% England Swan Seals Aberdeen Limited 100% Scotland Intermediate holding companies FPE Seals BV 100% Netherlands Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England Kentek Oy 90% Finland Diploma Holdings Inc. 100% USA ZAO Kentek 90% Russia Pride Limited 100% England Kentek Eesti Ou 90% Estonia Diploma Australia Holdings Limited 100% England SIA Kentek Latvija 90% Latvia Diploma Canada Holdings Limited 100% England UAB Kentek Lietuva 90% Lithuania Diploma Overseas Limited 100% England Rutin AG 100% Switzerland Napier Group Limited 100% England Kubo Tech AG 100% Switzerland Williamson Cliff Limited 100% England Kubo Form AG 100% Switzerland Newlandglebe Limited 100% England Kubo Tech GmbH 100% Austria Diploma Germany Holding GmbH 100% Germany Kubo Immo AG 100% Switzerland Diploma Canada Healthcare Inc 100% Canada Johannsen AG 100% Switzerland Diploma Australia Healthcare Pty 100% Australia West Coast Industrial Supplies Pty 100% Australia Limited Limited Diploma Australia Seals Pty Limited 100% Australia West Coast Industrial Supplies New 100% New Caledonia Caledonia SAS 1 Dormant company.
2 All companies incorporated in the United Kingdom listed above have their registered office at 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX.
3 These subsidiaries, both of which are incorporated in England, are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Act.
