Strategic report Governance Financial statements Great Smart & efficient retailer manufacturer Compelling brands, propositions and Efficiency and flexibility to deliver customer experience to meet diverse better claims and customer service and long-term customer needs at lower cost We aim to make it easy for our customers to access our We aim to improve efficiency and effectiveness across the products and services at every stage of their journey.
While we re-established our traditional includes increasing online servicing for customer policies partnership capabilities, we intend to establish ourselves as and claims, and evolving telephone sales and servicing by the UK insurance partner of choice for less traditional partners.
investing in next-generation customer systems.
We focus on training our contact centre employees to understand and How we performed in 2016 respond better to our customer needs.
Our underlying costs excluding higher non-cash impairments to intangible assets than in recent years were stable compared How we performed in 2016 to 2015, having absorbed the 24m Flood Re levy and The differentiation of our brands remained a key focus in still supporting 4.3% in-force policy growth in our Motor and 2016.
For Direct Line we have built strong foundations since Home own brands.
Excluding the impairment, H2 2016 costs our reboot of the brand just over two years ago, introducing were lower than H2 2015, primarily due to lower claims a succession of effectively marketed product enhancements.
This year we added a three-hour emergency plumbing service In our Partnerships, we extended our Home and Private for our Home Plus customers.
Our strong marketing and Insurance arrangement with RBS for a further three years and branding is key to clearly articulating these enhancements to our Travel insurance contract with Nationwide Building Society our customers so they want to come directly to us.
The success until the end of 2018. of our marketing to drive Direct Line growth was recognised when we won the Gold Institute of Practitioners in Advertising We agreed an extension of our Home and Motor insurance award for marketing effectiveness.
partnership with Prudential for a further two years.
As part of this, we will renew policies under the Prudential brand until The strength of our Direct Line brand is not limited to the 2019.
Weve also launched our first Affinity Partnership personal lines sector, with more small businesses looking scheme to offer access to Churchill-branded Home and Motor for reliable and easy to use direct insurance, Direct Line for policies to Prudential Group customers who do not currently Business continued to grow strongly in the year, highlighting have such insurance with us.
This partnership demonstrates our the value of this brand asset.
ability to deliver tailored propositions to meet the needs of our Our effectiveness on PCWs via the Churchill and Privilege partners and their customers.
brands has also increased, particularly in Home as we The Group increased the number of accident repair centres improved the customer journey.
This contributed to strong it owns to 18 in 2016 strengthening its ability to control new sales growth through this channel.
indemnity spend and improve customer experience.
Our Churchill brand was strengthened with the launch of our Lollipoppers campaign and we have recruited new Lollipop Our objectives for 2017 men and women nationwide.
We also relaunched our While we made good progress in establishing new partners in Churchill Motor free rescue campaign, differentiating this brand 2016, we continue to be on the lookout for more opportunities and leveraging our Rescue capabilities at the same time.
where our flexibility and expertise can benefit all stakeholders.
Our Green Flag brand continued to perform well.
Green Flags We maintain a firm focus on improving the efficiency of the app was enhanced with Green Flag Alert Me and Rescue business through cost efficiency programmes, while investing Me, providing the capability for rescue customers to monitor in systems and capabilities to increase customer self-service.
the health of their car and to improve their rescue experience.
We are investing to further strengthen our application and Our objectives for 2017 claims fraud capabilities.
Continue to build the Direct Line brand presence, offering a differentiated and valued service and proposition not available on PCWs.
Further leverage our Direct capabilities with our small to medium-sized enterprise SME commercial customers and maintain our competitiveness on PCWs.
com 15 Our strategy continued Lead & disrupt Data & the market technology Maximise existing growth Harness the power of technology opportunities while creating and and the scale of our data driving future areas of value We aim to remain a leading competitor in our chosen markets We aim to harness the power of technology to make things by providing quality propositions and value for money.
Where easier for our customers and our people.
By implementing there are opportunities, we will look to launch new and integrated systems that are flexible and efficient, over time we exciting products and services.
These will aim to put us at the aim to reduce costs while improving customer interactions such forefront of disruptive market changes.
We also enjoy a wealth of data from being a major insurer for a number of years, which we can use to make our business better for our customers.
How we performed in 2016 We continued to build on our strong market position by How we performed in 2016 identifying and investing in market developments we believe can contribute to future growth.
The ongoing areas of focus include developing future capability, and managing risks associated with IT systems We have extended our partnership with PSA Finance UK part stability and cyber security.
Technology remains at the heart of Peugeot Citron for a further four years.
The partnership of our operations and the focus is on upgrading our IT systems has found success by packaging insurance with car finance to and capabilities, aimed at improving the digital offering, create innovative mobility solutions for consumers, particularly customer experience and operational efficiency.
While young or inexperienced drivers through the use of telematics progress has been made in each of these three areas, in the Peugeot Just Add Fuel and Citroen SimplyDrive offers.
implementation and integration of a range of new IT systems Extending the partnership allows us to create propositions is inherently complex and challenging.
We remained focused based on the technology being fitted to the car.
on adopting the right capabilities and will take the time necessary to do so.
We are working with Tesla to understand the role advanced technology and driving aids can play in enhancing road safety We have made progress improving the performance of the and therefore insurance.
In 2017, Tesla became an introducer core infrastructure during the year, supporting our people in appointed representative to be able to refer customers to performing their roles more effectively.
Direct Line to insure their Tesla.
Our objectives for 2017 In 2016, we formed a partnership called MOVE UK We will continue to look to improve the performance and cost with the UK government, technology providers and car effectiveness of our existing IT systems and work on developing manufacturers to accelerate the development, market readiness and building new IT systems.
and deployment of Automated Driving Systems ADS.
With ADS systems observing and recording in the background while MOVE UK vehicles are driven normally, this is a unique opportunity to learn how ADS technology would respond in real life situations.
In Commercial, we continued to be recognised for our leading capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance, both of which are expected to continue to grow.
Our objectives for 2017 New car technology centred on improving safety is emerging at a fast pace and the Group aims to take a lead by becoming the insurer of choice for the owners of the cars equipped with such technology.
We continue to look for new partners and ways to help our customers benefit from these new technologies.
In Commercial, we are looking to further leverage our strong Direct Line brand and direct marketing capabilities to disrupt the small commercial customer segment.
16 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Culture & Capital & risk capability management Build on our peoples potential Our foundation of capital and risk management We are continuing to invest in our employees skills.
This will Our risk and capital management policy seeks to maintain an help us to improve effectiveness and customer experiences.
appropriate level of capital and solvency for the risk appetite We aim to create excellent Group-wide employee engagement agreed by the Board to support our business, while aiming by focusing on leadership and people management at all to grow dividends annually in real terms.
This has helped improve our employee engagement metrics year on year.
How we performed in 2016 During 2016, we received approval from the PRA to use How we performed in 2016 the Groups PIM, successfully concluding a multi-year project.
During the year we continued to invest in employees We have embedded this model at the centre of the risk skills to improve effectiveness and customer experience.
management framework and now use it to report our Solvency We are committed to broadening the diversity of our talent II capital coverage.
pool and this year signed up to the Women in Finance We have used the PIM to establish a clear capital target range Charter, seeking to increase the number of women in senior which provides additional security over the regulatory SCR.
We were well prepared for the UKs referendum on leaving In addition, we launched a new graduate scheme and the European Union EU and have actively managed the apprentice recruitment drive to build a stronger organic impacts from the subsequent volatile financial markets.
a UK-based business underwriting risk within the UK, and the We also launched a major new training programme for our day-to-day operations remain largely unaffected.
We continue people, designed to help flex their approaches to improve to monitor the consequences of the devaluation of Sterling and engagement with customers.
Not only has this strengthened uncertain financial markets.
our front office staff skills, as they handle customers in often difficult situations, but it has also strengthened the way our Our objectives for 2017 people interact with one another.
We aim to further embed the use of our internal model within the business and operational decision making.
We recognise This has in turn helped the engagement rate to continue the strategic value and competitive advantage strong risk to improve through the year from an already improved level management can provide and continue to work to drive in 2015. ownership of risk management across the Group.
Our objectives for 2017 We have a range of new initiatives to build on our people strategy focused on developing a high performance culture based on diversity, continuous training and a focus on the customer.
com 17 Building a culture of great service In order to constantly improve our customer experience we are investing in training and development for our people.
Providing the tools for success The Connect programme was designed to challenge the mindset of our organisation and help our people with the skills they need to have real conversations with customers.
The aim was to connect them 4,000 to the vital role they play in colleagues trained supporting people through what can be difficult times.
in Connect since its launch in 2015 18 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Committed support Because our people are our biggest asset and have the biggest impact on our customers, we wanted this cultural change to touch every customer facing area of our business.
This includes contact centres, accident repair centres, offshore partners and suppliers.
This contributes to our aim of creating an effortless journey for our customers.
com 19 Preparing for the roads of the future This year we kicked off a partnership called MOVE UK with Government, technology providers, and car manufacturers to accelerate the development, market readiness and deployment of Automated Driving Systems ADS.
Planning for the future of our business is vital so that we continue to provide customers with a service that fits their needs.
Testing tomorrows cars The three-year project is one of the first of its kind in the UK and aims to develop a new method for validating ADS and a data resource that will help us analyse and prepare for the impact of ADS on three-year vehicle insurance.
20 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Building our technology and data capabilities Further advances of in-car technology and driverless cars are set to change British roads.
As a leading insurer we have a key role to play in the development and, in particular, the adoption of this technology which has the potential to improve road safety significantly.
Embracing new technology With ADS observing and recording in the background while MOVE UK vehicles are driven normally, its a unique opportunity to learn how ADS technology would respond in real life situations.
250 data points monitored in each car www.
com 21 Building our brands by offering more We take pride in investing in our brand propositions to give customers increased certainty around the service they can expect from their insurance.
Support around the clock We identified escape of water as a costly problem for both homeowners and insurers and one that requires a quick remedy a burst pipe can result in 30 gallons of water escaping in as little as two minutes.
To tackle this, in 2016 we introduced our commitment to providing an emergency plumber within three hours of reporting an uncontrollable leak for all Direct Line Home Insurance Plus policyholders and those who Direct Line committing to providing add Home Emergency to their standard a plumber within Direct Line Home policy.
3 hours day or night was an industry first 22 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Available when our customers need us The commitment to a plumber arriving in such a short time frame is a first for the insurance industry.
For water leaks that can be contained by turning off the water supply, Direct Line will still ensure an emergency plumber is sent to the property at a time convenient for the householder.
