FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation What we have audited of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Dominos Pizza Group plcs financial statements comprise: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Group Parent company The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Group balance sheet as Balance sheet as at of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United at25December 2016 25December2016 Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Group income statement for the52week period then ended Our opinion on the financial statements Group statement of comprehensive In our opinion: incomeforthe 52week period then ended o the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group statement of changes in equity Statement of changes groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 25 December 2016 forthe 52 week period then ended inequityforthe 52 week and of the groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: periodthenended o the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Group cash flow statement forthe52week accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: period then ended o the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared Related notes 1 to 35 to Related notes 1 to 11 to in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting  the financialstatements Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and o the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality o Overall Group materiality of 4m which represents 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation fromcontinuing operations.
Audit scope o We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components and audit procedures onspecificbalances for a further 5 components.
o The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations, 100% of revenue and 98% of total assets.
o The components subject to review scope procedures covered the remaining 1% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations and 2% total assets.
Risks of material misstatement o Susceptibility to management override in recharging expenditure incurred by the group to the NationalAdvertising Fund.
o Susceptibility to management override in the recognition of revenue through manual journals.
o Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland.
o Distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act.
What has changed o In the prior year, our auditors report included two additional risks of material misstatement in relation to: o Classification of discontinued operations and completeness of related restructuring provisions in respect ofthe exit from the German business: and o Reversionary interest-share based compensation schemes.
o The exit from the German business was accounted for in the prior year and there have been no further discontinued operations during the year.
o The reversionary interest-share based compensation schemes continue to be an area of audit focus however asthere has been no further development during the year, this risk did not have a significant effect on our audit strategy in the current year or our allocation of resources.
o One component, that was full scope in the prior year, was assigned specific scope in the current year as itceased trading during the year.
In addition, in the current year we have included in scope the performance ofspecified procedures by a non-EY component team over an investment in associate entity.
This was a new investment during the year.
66 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Scope of the audit of the financial statements Performance materiality An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Itis set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the exceeds materiality.
accounting policies are appropriate to the group and the parent companys On the basis of our risk assessments, the implementation of a new ERP circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately platform and our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made our judgement was that performance materiality should be set at 50% by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the maintained performance materiality at this percentage reflecting the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the results of our testing of the Groups systems and processes and audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently historical audit findings.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken the implications for our report.
based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and Our application of materiality risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the ofthe risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4m and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Reporting threshold The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in An amount below which identified misstatements are considered theaggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic asbeing clearly trivial.
decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m 2015: 0.16m, which We determined materiality for the Group to be 4m 2015: 3.4m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that is 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
operations 2015: 5% of profit before taxation from continuing operations.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative We use profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant operations as reported by the group to exclude the impact of one-off, qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
exceptional items and the impact of discontinued operations which do The scope of our audit not reflect the underlying trading performance of the group.
This avoids inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result of non-recurring items.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for eachentity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form o Profit before taxation from continuing anopinion on the consolidated financial statements.
In determining operations 82.5m Starting audit scope we take into account size, risk profile, the organisation basis ofthe group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as findings from third party assurance reviews when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
o Non-underlying items before tax 3.1m Adjustments The Group manages its wholly owned operations from a single location in the UK and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering full scope and specific scope components.
The audit of in-scope components is performed by the Group audit team.
The audit team o Totals 85.6m [materiality basis] profit includes tax and valuation specialists.
beforenon-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial Materiality statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of o Materiality of 4m 5% of materiality basis significant accounts in the financial statements, of the sixteen reporting components of the Group, we selected ten components covering entities within the UK, Ireland and Switzerland, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc The scope of our audit continued Tailoring the scope continued Of the ten components selected, we performed an audit of the complete In tailoring our scope, we considered the risk of material misstatement financial information of five components full scope components which tothe Group financial statements, arising from the investment in joint were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining ventures and associates.
This resulted in one investment in associate five components specific scope components, we performed audit entity being included in scope.
We instructed non-EY component auditors procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered to perform specified procedures and determined the appropriate level had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in ofinvolvement to enable us to obtain sufficient audit evidence had been the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements ortheir risk profile.
2015 2016 % Group % Group adjusted adjusted profit % Group % Total profit % Group % Total Number before tax revenue assets See note Number before tax revenue assets 1,2 Full scope 5 100% 96% 89% 1,2 6 102% 96% 92% 2,3, 4 Specific scope 5 1% 4% 9% 2, 3, 4 4 3% 3.5% 5% Full and specific scope coverage 10 99% 100% 98% 10 99% 99.5% 97% 5 Remaining components 6 1% 2% 5 5 5% 0.5% 3% Total reporting components 16 100% 100% 100% 15 104% 100% 100% Notes Changes from the prior year 1 The Group audit risk in relation to susceptibility to management override in One component, that was a full scope component in the prior year, was recharging expenditure incurred by the group to the National Advertising Fund confirmed as specific scope in the current year due to the component and distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act was ceasing trading during the year.
In addition in the current year we have subject to audit procedures by the primary audit team on the entire balance.
included in scope the performance of specified procedures by a non-EY 2 The Group audit risk in relation to susceptibility to management override in the component team over an investment in associate entity.
This was a new recognition of revenue through manual journals was subject to audit procedures investment during the year.
at each of the full and specific scope locations with Revenue.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 3 The Group audit risk in relation to impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland was subject to We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those specific scope audit procedures in 1 component.
that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
4 The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage ofsignificant accounts tested for the Group.
were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
5 Of the remaining 6 components that together represent 1% of the Groups profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations, none are individually greater than 1% of the Groups profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
68 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheAudit Committee Risk movement National Advertising Fund expenditure We inspected the franchise agreement The franchisees ability to control the use No change framework to determine the extent of ofthe resources in the NAF supports the Refer to the Accounting policies page 83 : influence that the Group has over the Groups judgement not to consolidate the andNote 23 of the Consolidated Financial use of the resources held by the NAF income and expenditure of the NAF.
Statements page 102. todetermine whether it should be Due to the existing agreement being Franchisees pay contributions which are consolidated with the Groups accounts.
aframework, judgement is required collected by the Group for specific use We performed testing to confirm that foritems that are recharged to the NAF.
withinthe National Advertising Fund NAF.
costs charged to the fund are permitted Wedid not identify expenses which had Thefund is operated by the Group on behalf costs under the fund rules by selecting been inappropriately expensed against offranchisees with the objective of driving asample of expenses and corroborating theNAF.
Total contributions to supporting documentation.
made to the NAF for the 52 week period amounted to 41.5m 2015: 41.8m and We identified manual journals posted theNAF balance at 25 December 2016 tothe NAF fund and, where significant, wasacreditor of 1.9m 2015: 0.3m.
understood the rationale for the journal entry and agreed the journals to relevant The NAF is governed by a framework.
Thedescription of activities to be expensed against the fund is such that judgement is We performed a proof in total required to determine the appropriateness ofcreditsto the NAF based upon ofthe nature and extent of costs to be afixedpercentage of system sales.
recharged from the Group to the fund.
System sales were substantively Therecharging of expenditure incurred by testedby selecting a sample of items the Group on behalf of the NAF is susceptible totest to supporting documentation.
to management override through inappropriate expenditure being charged to the NAF.
Revenue recognition We performed detailed testing over Revenue was recognised in accordance No change revenue recognition as follows: with the Groups accounting policies and Refer to the Accounting policies page 84 : no matters in respect of inappropriate and Note 3 Revenue of the Consolidated We performed detailed testing on a manual journals were identified.
Financial Statements page 86. sample of sales transactions across the year and across each significant revenue Total Group revenue is 360.6m stream tracing from origination through 2013:316.9m.
The Groups significant to the general ledger to ensure that the revenue streams include royalties, corporate revenue was appropriately recorded in store sales, sales to franchisees and the correct period and at the correct value.
We performed data analysis We continue to assess revenue recognition  the flow as an area of audit risk which has a significant ofrevenue transactions in the general effect on our audit strategy and our allocation ledger.
In addition, we performed of resources.
substantive analytical procedures using There is a risk of misstatement of revenue the inter-relationship of system sales, royalty arising from the susceptibility to management income and sales to franchisees to analyse override through recording of inappropriate movements in revenue year on year.
In the execution of our journal entry testing, we performed testing over manual journal entries recorded in eachrevenue account.
We tested to supporting documentation of the journal entry and validated that amounts were correctly recorded.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheAudit Committee Risk movement Risk of Impairment in Switzerland We obtained the impairment analysis The cash flow projections prepared No change performed by management and compared bymanagement support the carrying Refer to the Accounting policies page 82 : the consistency of the current year valueofthe goodwill, intangible assets and Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial methodology to prior year.
andPPE held inrespect of Dominos Swiss Statements page 95. business.
Theheadroom in the value in We performed testing over the impairment Given the continued losses made by the use model has increased compared to analysis for logical and arithmetic accuracy Swiss business, there is an increased risk theprior year.
and to ensure that it has been prepared in ofimpairment.
There is a high degree of line with the guidance provided in IAS 36. management judgement in assessing the potential impairment of the goodwill and We performed a retrospective review assets relating to the Switzerland business.
ofhistoric performance against budgets andforecasts in order to identify bias Goodwill and Intangibles of 4.6m within managements assumptions.
2015:4.0m are included in the consolidated balance sheet in respect We performed procedures to oftheSwiss business.
In addition, property,  of the plant and equipment PPE with a carrying underlying assumptions made in value of 6.8m 2015:5.4m relate to the theforecasts andcorroborated the operations inSwitzerland.
appropriateness ofthese assumptions tosupporting documentation.
The key assumptions included: o discount rate: and o medium-term growth rate.
In respect of the discountrate, an independent assessment was made byour experts based on general marketindicators.
We tested the reasonableness of the medium-term growth rates by examining store performance following the recent strategic and operational improvements implemented by management.
Weperformed sensitivity analysis overthekey assumptions within the impairment model.
70 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk totheAudit Committee Risk movement Distributions made other than in We obtained the analysis of reserves and The financial statements reflect fairly the Decrease Compliance with the Companies Act distributions performed by management substance of the unlawful distributions.
and tested the accuracy ofthe Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 39 : underlying data.
and Note 11 of the Company Financial Statements page 123.
We read the legal correspondence provided to the Company by the Groups During the year it was identified that certain external legal advisors and checked it distributions were not made in accordance with was consistent with the requirements of Companies Act.
This included distributions the Companies Act 2006.
We checked the relating to the payments of dividends, purchases accounting considerations underpinning of own shares and funding by the Company the legal advice were consistent with of the Employee Benefit Trust.
The unlawful relevant accounting guidance in Tech distributions arose as a result of failings to comply Release 02 10. with Company Law in the following areas: We traced each of the transactions o distributions when insufficient anddistributions to the relevant accounts distributable reserves were available: and that were filed with Companies House.
o failure to file interim accounts with the We corroborated to supporting evidence Registrar where these were needed as the timing of transactions and distributions relevant accounts to support a distribution to ensure the completeness of unlawful or share buyback.
The total amount of unlawful distributions We inspected the Circular to Shareholders over a period of 16 years from 2000 and the minutes of the EGM.
that the disclosures in the accounts regarding the presentation of equity, earnings per share and certain related party transactions were appropriate.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor misstatement in relation to the classification of discontinued operations As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set and completeness of related restructuring provisions in respect of the exit out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the from the German business.
The accounting for the impact of the transaction financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair was appropriately reflected in the prior year financial statements with view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the German operations presented as discontinued.
In the current year, statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards the direct operations in Germany have ceased and the presentation as on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply discontinued remains appropriate.
The audit of remaining provisions for with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
restructuring costs remains an area of audit focus but is not considered an area of significant risk.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition in the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the material misstatement in relation to reversionary interest share-based companys members those matters we are required to state to them compensation schemes.
Significant judgement continues to be required inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to determine the treatment of such compensation from an employment tax permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone perspective.
In the current year, there has been no further correspondence other than the company and the companys members as a body, for from HMRC or confirmation of HMRCs position regarding the non-taxable ouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Therefore there remains uncertainty as to the extent, if any, of the Groups exposure to employment taxes in respect of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the the schemes.
As there has been no further development during the year, CompaniesAct 2006 this risk did not have a significant effect on our audit strategy in the o the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been current year or our allocation of resources.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and In the prior year, the risk of misstatement relating to revenue recognition o based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: specified, in addition to the risk of management override, the risk of cut off errors.
We have reassessed this risk and based on our understanding o the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors of the typical volume of trade around the year end, historical audit findings Report for the financial year for which the financial statements and our current audit work, we no longer consider it an area of areprepared isconsistent with the financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no ISAs UK and Ireland inthe annual report is: exceptions to report.
reporting o materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or o apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or o otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Companies Act 2006 exceptions to report.
reporting o adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or o the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or o certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or o we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: We have no Listing Rules review exceptions to report.
requirements o the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 64, and longer-term viability, set out on page 23: and o the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing ISAs UK and Ireland attention to in relation to: material to add or reporting todraw attention to.
o the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: o the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: o the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and o the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Christopher Voogd Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 8 March 2017 Notes 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Dominos Pizza Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
72 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
