INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC Opinion on financial statements of Drax Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and ofthe groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: the related Group notes 2.1 to 8.4 and the related Parent Company notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Asset impairment Useful economic life assumptions Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts Existence and valuation of biomass stocks Valuation and recoverability of ROCs Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 4.2 million which was determined based on a blended basis taking into consideration a number of available metrics.
Scoping We focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power and Drax Biomass.
Allof these were subject to a full scope audit.
These three locations represent the principal business units and account for all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes in our approach Our audit approach remains consistent to the prior year.
We have refined our key risk in relation to stocks and have focused specifically on biomass existence and valuation and identified a new risk in relation to the useful economic life assumptions adopted.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to the directors confirmation on page 61 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, inrespect of these matters.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 55 to 61 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: We agreed with the directors adoption the directors statement on page 111 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of ofthe going concern basis of accounting accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over and we did not identify any such material a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and uncertainties.
However, because not the directors explanation on page 54 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done allfuture events or conditions can so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation bepredicted, this statement is not a that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, guarantee as to the groups ability including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 FINANCIALS Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are We confirm that we are independent of independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred toin those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This year we have refined the risk relating to stocks to focus on the existence and valuation of biomass stocks, as opposed to coal and biomass stocks in the prior year as this is where we consider the most judgement to exist.
As per note 3.3, biomass stocks have increased from 119 million at 31 December 2015 to 198 million at 31 December 2016.
Coal stocks have reduced from 89 million at 31 December 2015 to 66 million at 31 December 2016.
This reflects the development of the plant.
Useful economic life assumptions has been identified as a new risk in the year.
As part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated useful life of coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from 1 January 2017 and this is considered to be a key judgement.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Asset Impairment We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to The Groups market capitalisation continues to be below its asset value.
contributing factors in the current year which increase the risk of impairment includes the depreciation of sterling following the Brexit vote, delays in the approval of the CfD, We have challenged managements identification of CGUs, taking into consideration the UK Government consultation on the future of coal generating assets within the UK the independence of cash flows across key components of the business and power industry and continued softness in commodity markets.
therefore performed an impairment review in the current year.
We utilised our valuation specialists to benchmark key market related assumptions As noted in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions in including commodity prices, current and future capacity and other support note 2.4 and the Audit Committee report on page 77, asset impairment has been mechanisms and discount rates against external data where available.
For example, we considered a key risk by the Audit Committee.
have compared the commodity price assumptions to the latest available Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy DBEIS, Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC and National Grid forecasts.
The impairment testing is subject to the application of management judgement in identifying cash-generating units CGUs and various assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use for each CGU identified.
This assessment also considers We have considered the liquidity of the biomass market and the impact that Drax could changes in the business which may give rise to additional CGUs, for example the have on that market relating to the volumes of biomass required in the future.
approval of the CfD on Unit 1 in the current year.
We have also challenged the underlying assumptions and significant judgements used Additionally, these assumptions include the achievability of the long-term business in managements impairment model by: plan and related modelling assumptions underlying the valuation process.
Running a range of sensitivities to assess whether an impairment would be required The significant judgements have been disclosed by management in note 2.4 and include: if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted: Assessing the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts by The expected operating lives of the six generating units comparing them to actual performance and verifying the mathematical accuracy of Future commodity prices beyond the horizon of existing contracted purchases, the cash flow models: and particularly long-term power prices at both baseload and peak times, and biomass Assessing whether the disclosures in note 2.4 of the financial statements prices in the long term given that biomass is not a standardised commodity traded appropriately disclose the key judgements taken so that the reader of the accounts openly on exchanges: is aware of the impact of the financial statement of changes to key assumptions Future foreign exchange rates beyond the horizon of existing contracted purchase that may lead to impairment.
commitments: the continuance of existing biomass support regimes until 2027 and the existence of a favourable economic environment for biomass generation thereafter: and The discount rate applied to forecast future cash flows.
Useful economic life assumptions We have considered a number of factors as part of our audit including challenging the Previously, the useful economic life of the power station was assumed to end in 2039. reasonableness of key assumptions such as: Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future replacement cycles and other available evidence: however an inherent degree of judgement remains.
the adequacy of the current and proposed depreciation assumptions across the generation asset base: As per note 3.1, as part of the most recent annual review of asset lives, the estimated consideration of the future ability to generate economic value: useful life of coal-specific assets at Drax Power Station will be revised with effect from factors affecting primary income streams including forecast spreads and external 1 January 2017.
On 9 November 2016 the Government announced a consultation on factors including political and regulatory requirements: and the future closure of unabated coal-fired generation.
Following this, management Consistency of the UEL assessment with the impairment analysis above.
concluded that coal generation will most likely cease during 2025, shortening the useful lives of the coal-specific assets which will not be required to support generation We have also assessed whether 1 January 2017 is an appropriate date from which to after this date.
amend the useful economic life.
Management believe this change will result in an increase of approximately 27 million per annum in depreciation charges from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025.
113 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the Unrealised gains on derivative contracts recognised in the income statement are valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
177m 2015: 124m, with total assets of 891m and liabilities of 364m recognised on the balance sheet as at the year end.
We note that 666m of assets relate to foreign We used our financial instrument specialists to test managements key judgements currency derivatives at the current year end 2015: 36m.
and calculations, including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets confirming key information such as volumes and contracted prices.
The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies and assumptions in We have assessed the valuation models used by management to determine the fair respect of future market prices and credit risk factors.
value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosure in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 117 and 118 and the Audit We have analysed the appropriateness of managements forward price curve Committee report on page 77. assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements such as asset impairment.
We have challenged managements approach and assumptions involved in assessing fair value adjustment such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments.
Existence and valuation of biomass stocks We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the Biomass stocks of 198 million 2015: 119 million are held on the balance sheet at year existence and valuation of on-site biomass stocks.
The most significant judgement relating to stock is considered to be the existence and valuation of biomass stocks held on-site 21 million.
Our audit procedures include testing the underlying weighted average cost calculation by agreeing key inputs such as price and volumes to source data including purchase invoices for amounts delivered in the year.
We also sample testing the calorific value of Given the storage and handling characteristics of the on-site biomass stocks, judgement biomass to third party laboratory reports or purchase invoice as appropriate.
is inherent in calculating the volume of biomass stocks owned by the Group because it isnot practical to physically count the stocks at year end.
Further details of the key accounting policy judgements are included in note 3.3, and as noted, the calibrated We gained assurance of stock volumes on site during the year through managements weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable errors.
We also sample tested metering data subsequent to the dome emptying by agreeing to third party sources and internal operational data.
We The valuation of biomass is dependent upon the estimation or measurement of the assessed the tolerable errors in the weighing equipment through agreement to a tonnage held, the calorific value, its purchase price and its net realisable value.
sample of third party calibration certificates.
The weighted average cost calculation is complex and dependant on the tonnage held.
This results in an increasing risk of management error or bias and therefore increased risk of misstatement.
Valuation and recoverability of ROCs We carried out testing of the design and implementation of key controls related to the ROCs with a value of 258 million are held on the balance sheet at the year end 2015: valuation of ROCs.
ROCs are recognised as they are earned through generating electricity from burning biomass.
They are initially recognised at fair value reducing the cost of We gained assurance over the ROCs generated in the year by agreement to Ofgem biomass consumed in the income statement and subsequently written down to net confirmation certificates and operational data confirming the level of generation realisable values as appropriate.
Judgement is required by management in estimating both the initial fair value and We have assessed the initial fair value of ROCs by agreement of the buy-out price to estimating net realisable value, including value recovered through the recycling fund.
available third party supporting information and external sales agreements.
We have also challenged the estimates made by management of the recoveries Further detail is explained in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and through the recycling fund, the level of which impacts the estimated net realisable assumptions set out on pages 117 and 118 and in the Audit Committee report on page77.
value of the ROCs held in the balance sheet at year end.
This included comparison to other available third party estimates.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of areasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and inevaluating the results of our work.
When determining materiality, we considered the decline in earnings this year and at present do not consider that this decline is likely to reflect along-term reduction in the size and scale of the business.
We have determined materiality by considering a range of possible benchmarks and the figures derived from those, with a particular focus on selecting a materiality within the range that we considered appropriate.
This included underlying EBITDA excluding unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts, one-off asset obsolescence charges and losses on disposal of assets, profit before and after interest and tax as well as the scale of the balance sheet and the overall size of the business.
We determined materiality for the Group on a blended basis to be 4.2 million 2015: 6.1 million.
This materiality equates to 0.2% of net assets and 17% of underlying profit before tax excluding unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts, one-off asset obsolesce charges and losses on disposal of assets.
Last year materiality was also based on a blended rate.
114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 FINANCIALS We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2015: 0.1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reporting threshold has been made following our reassessment of what matters require communicating.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations 2015: the same three locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power and Drax Biomass.
All of these locations were subject to a full scope audit and they represent the principal business units and account for all of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax, in line with 2015.
There were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 2.1 million to 3.8 million 2015: 3.0 million to 4.8 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit oraudit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
During 2016 the Senior Statutory Auditor visited two of these locations, and other senior team members visited the third.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have these matters.
not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys our review.
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual report We confirm that we have not identified Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the any such inconsistencies or misleading annual report is: statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course ofperforming our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
115 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC CONTINUED Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Leigh, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 15 February 2017 116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016
