98 Financial Statements 98 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DS SMITH PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial statements also comprise the parent Company Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 A to the financial statements and the Directors statement of the longer-term viability of the Group on page 41.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 40 47 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement on page 65 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 99 98 Financial Statements Financial Statements 99 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DS SMITH PLC OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In our opinion: The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Audit Committee has requested that, while not currently required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: RISK HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Exceptional items have been evaluated as to their nature in order to assess whether Classification and presentation Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and their classification and presentation are in line with the Groups accounting policy of exceptional items the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the and guidance from the Financial Reporting Council.
The quantification of such The presentation and consistency of costs and income Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
items has been assessed by agreeing to source documentation.
We have within exceptional items is a key determinant in the reviewed managements application of the policy for consistency with previous assessment of the quality of the Groups underlying The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the accounting periods.
Management judgement is required in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows determining whether an item is exceptional.
For the year We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial statements also comprise the parent Company Balance Sheet and related notes 1 to 17. sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these items.
ended 30 April 2016, the Group incurred net exceptional The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs and acquisition related costs of 79 million.
Refer to Key observations as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company note 4 for details of the exceptional items in the year We are satisfied that the amounts classified as exceptional items are reasonable financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and note 1 W for managements policy for identifying in all material respects and the related disclosure of these items in the financial Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN We worked with our tax audit specialists, including those in required local Tax jurisdictions, to challenge the estimates and judgements made by management THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated number of uncertain tax positions require judgements As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of provisions held.
We reviewed the correspondence with the taxation authorities in respect of the likely outcome of negotiations with accounting contained within note 1 A to the financial statements and the Directors statement of the longer-term viability of the Group in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from various tax authorities.
Refer to note 1 U for on page 41. external counsel or other advisors where management has utilised such opinions managements process for estimating and recording to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax treatments and assessing the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: tax provisions and note 22 for detail of the deferred reasonableness of the provisions made.
the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including Key observations those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: We are satisfied that the assumptions used in calculating the tax charge the disclosures on pages 40 47 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: are appropriate.
the Directors statement on page 65 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going We have challenged the key assumptions made by management in accounting for Acquisition accounting concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue the acquisitions.
Specifically, we have reviewed the discount, tax and growth rates There is a risk that the acquisition accounting for the to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: by reference to external market data and in doing so we involved our own valuation businesses acquired in the year, primarily related to specialists to assist us in our assessment.
Duropack 153m and Lantero 102m as set out in the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and note 31, has not been correctly applied.
Specifically, Key observations why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group there is a risk that incorrect assumptions such as the We are satisfied that the assumptions used in calculating the value of intangible will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related discount, tax and growth rates used, result in inaccurate assets are appropriate.
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in our report this year: carrying value of goodwill, tangible and However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to intangible assets and investment balances, and the adequacy of working capital provisions.
The forecast performance of the Group indicates there is adequate headroom on each of the cash generating units.
The carrying value INDEPENDENCE of goodwill and intangible assets is no longer considered to be a key risk to the Group financial statements.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided The adequacy of working capital provisions is no longer considered to be a key risk to the Group financial statements given the Groups high inventory turn and the low credit risk attached to the Groups receivables balances, more of which are now insured.
The policy applied any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
in calculating the inventory and receivable provisions is broadly consistent year on year.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 70.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com 100 Financial Statements 100 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 13 million 2014 15: 12 million, which is approximately 5% 2014 15: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected to be volatile year on year and profit before tax and exceptional items is a key metric for users of the accounts.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 650,000 2014 15: 240,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We have increased this threshold after assessing with the Committee what is considered to be trivial.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Audits of all components are performed at a materiality level up to 50% of Group materiality.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at nine components 2014 15: seven located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Austria and the Netherlands.
These nine components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and, accordingly, provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings.
These components accounted for 57% 2014 15: 51% of revenue and 53% 2014 15: 52% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
For the remaining locations within our audit scope, the component auditor performed audit procedures on significant risks and material balances and provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor.
In line with our programme of rotational visits, senior members of our audit team visited two components located in Denmark and Greece.
Where no visits were carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit partner in the current year.
The remaining locations accounted for 30% 2014 15: 43% of revenue and 36% 2014 15: 42% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Financial Statements 101 100 Financial Statements Financial Statements 101 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We in evaluating the results of our work.
have nothing to report arising from these matters.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 13 million 2014 15: 12 million, which is approximately 5% 2014 15: 5% of profit before CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT tax and exceptional items.
We exclude the effect of exceptional items to provide a stable basis for materiality, as these items are expected Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys to be volatile year on year and profit before tax and exceptional items is a key metric for users of the accounts.
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 650,000 2014 15: OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT 240,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We have increased Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the this threshold after assessing with the Committee what is considered to be trivial.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure Annual Report is: matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Audits of all components are performed materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or at a materiality level up to 50% of Group materiality.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the performing our audit: or financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls and assessing audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
These nine components represent the principal business RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR units within the Groups key reportable segments and, accordingly, provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional For the remaining locations within our audit scope, the component auditor performed audit procedures on significant risks and material standards review team and independent partner reviews.
balances and provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor.
Where no visits were carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit partner in the current year.
The remaining An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable locations accounted for 30% 2014 15: 43% of revenue and 36% 2014 15: 42% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become In our opinion: aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Ian Waller the information given in the Strategic Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS London, United Kingdom Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 22 June 2016 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
