Independent Auditors Report to the members of Dunelm Group plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: z Overall Group materiality: 6.4 million which represents 5% of z Dunelm Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent profit before tax.
Company financial statements the financial statements Materiality give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of z The Group is structured with the Parent Companys affairs as at 2 July 2016 and of the one segment that comprises a Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys consolidation of six legal entities.
cash flows for the 52 week period the period then z We conducted an audit of the ended: Audit scope complete financial information of these six legal entities, together z the Group financial statements have been properly with additional procedures prepared in accordance with International Financial performed, including over the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Areas Group consolidation.
Union: of focus z the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by z Inventory provisions.
the European Union and as applied in accordance with the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International z the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as We designed our audit by determining materiality and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors What we have audited made subjective judgements, for example in respect of The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, significant accounting estimates that involved making comprise: assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of z the consolidated and Parent Company statements of management override of internal controls, including evaluating financial position as at 2 July 2016: whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that z the consolidated income statement and consolidated represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
statement of comprehensive income for the period then The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect ended: on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and z the consolidated and Parent Company statements of cash effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We flows for the period then ended: have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these z the consolidated and Parent Company statements of specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial changes in equity for the period then ended: and statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the z the notes to the financial statements, which include a results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is summary of significant accounting policies and other not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2016 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. dunelm.
indd 86 12 10 2016 09:55:22 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory provisions Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 49 We tested the inputs to the provision calculation, including and the use of estimates and judgements in the Accounting the classification for example continuity line or discontinued Policies on page 96. of inventory to reports from the buying department, which is segregated from the finance department, and found them Inventory represents a significant asset on the Groups balance to be consistent.
We also re-performed the weeks cover sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable calculation, identifying no exceptions.
We challenged the expected realisable value of inventory The NRV provision involves judgement in assessing slow by reference to the historic experience of selling inventory moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group accounting policy at below cost and managements intended plans for future is based upon an analysis of the number of weeks cover of routes of clearance.
We found that the provision rates were inventory i. e. number of weeks sales held in inventory based consistent with the evidence obtained, based on past activity, upon an average of the previous 26 weeks of sales.
are recorded according to the number of weeks cover, type of inventory, certain classifications such as whether inventory is a continuity line or discontinued and managements assessment of the expected realisable value for each category of inventory.
How we tailored the audit scope In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of the remaining four non-significant legal entities such that the audit We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we work was complete prior to finalisation of the audit of the performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on Group financial statements, thereby providing further evidence the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the in support of our Group opinion.
geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The audits of these six legal entities, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including The Group is structured with one segment.
The Group financial over the Group consolidation, gave us the evidence we statements are a consolidation of six legal entities within needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a this segment, comprising the Groups operating business, whole.
intermediate holding companies and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified two legal entities: Dunelm Soft Furnishings Limited and Dunelm Group plc, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their financial significance to the Group.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 87 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-back.
indd 87 12 10 2016 09:55:22 financials Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED to the members of Dunelm Group plc Materiality Going concern The scope of our audit was influenced by our application Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern.
These, together with qualitative considerations, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating in relation to the Directors statement about whether they the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in financial statements as a whole.
We have nothing material Based on our professional judgement, we determined to add or to draw attention to.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Overall Group 6.4 million 2015: 6.1 million.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern materiality basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the How we 5% of profit before tax.
Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from determined it the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going benchmark generally accepted auditing practice, as concern basis is appropriate.
applied we believe this is the key measure used However, because not all future events or conditions can be by the shareholders in evaluating the predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the performance of the Group.
Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.05 million 2015: 0.05 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
indd 88 12 10 2016 09:55:23 The Directors assessment of the prospects of Other required reporting the Group and of the principal risks that would Consistency of other information threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Companies Act 2006 opinions Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we In our opinion: have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation z the information given in the Strategic Report and the to: Directors Report for the financial period for which the z the Directors confirmation on page 83 of the Annual financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that financial statements: and they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal z the information given in the Corporate Governance risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten Statement set out on pages 40 to 46 with respect to internal its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
control and risk management systems and about share We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
z the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those ISAs UK & Ireland reporting risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
our opinion: z the Directors explanation on page 83 of the Annual Report, z information in the Annual Report is: in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how materially inconsistent with the information in the they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what audited financial statements: or period they have done so and why they consider that apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will Parent Company acquired in the course of performing be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as our audit: or they fall due over the period of their assessment, including otherwise misleading.
any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have no exceptions to report.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
z the statement given by the Directors on page 83, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit We have no exceptions to report.
z the section of the Annual Report on page 48, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 89 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-back.
indd 89 12 10 2016 09:55:23 financials Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED to the members of Dunelm Group plc Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for of making enquiries and considering the Directors process and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in supporting their statements: checking that the statements are accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these considering whether the statements are consistent with the opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received What an audit of financial statements involves Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts you if, in our opinion: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free z we have not received all the information and explanations from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
we require for our audit: or This includes an assessment of: z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not z whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the been received from branches not visited by us: or Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: z the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in z the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates agreement with the accounting records and returns.
made by the Directors: and z the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors remuneration Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial opinion statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We test and examine information, using sampling and other to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to the Companies Act 2006. provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We Other Companies Act 2006 reporting obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no information in the Annual Report to identify material exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Corporate governance statement identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement become aware of any apparent material misstatements or has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
We have no inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further for and on behalf of  LLP provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors performed our review.
Birmingham 14 September 2016 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
