Financial Independent Auditors Report to the Statements members of Electrocomponents plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Electrocomponents plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: the Group Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group and Company Accounts, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 3.6 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax and reorganisation costs.
Materiality We conducted audit work over the complete financial information for seven components: UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, China and Electrocomponents plc.
The components that are part of our scope as set out above Audit scope account for 79% of Group revenues and 83% of Group profit before tax and reorganisation costs.
We focused on the following areas: Area of focus Inventory obsolescence provision: Tax provisioning: Reorganisation costs, and Hedging and financing activities.
com Electrocomponents plc 75 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained an understanding of the inventory provisioning Inventory obsolescence provision methodology and how it is applied.
Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, page 108 Note 17 Inventories and page 88 Basis of Preparation We assessed the completeness of the data used by the system to calculate the provision by agreeing the subledger to the general The balance of gross inventories at 31 March 2016 was 297.6 ledger.
We recalculated the provision to ensure mathematical million, against which a provision of 28.2 million was held.
We noted no material exceptions.
The valuation of inventory was a focus of our audit for the following We challenged the reasonableness of managements judgement reasons regarding the obsolescence percentage applied and expected Electrocomponents business model is based on having the future sales levels by comparing these assumptions to historic broadest range in the industry and delivering products on write-offs and historic sales and found the assumptions to be time, often next day.
This results in large quantities of inventory reasonable.
comprising many different types of product, being held for We tested manual overlays to the automated calculation by long periods of time which raises the risk of obsolescence of understanding the market-specific considerations behind the inventory.
adjustments and whether there was a right of return under the There is uncertainty about the impact of technological contractual arrangements.
advances, expiry dates, and future sales levels which require management to make assumptions based on information available at period end.
The inventory provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
Where necessary manual overlays are applied to this provision to account for unusual circumstances that may have arisen during the year.
76 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Financial Statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Reorganisation costs We examined the nature of costs presented as exceptional, and obtained a broader understanding of the impact of the Groups Refer to page 93 Note 5 Reorganisation costs reorganisation.
The Group has incurred reorganisation costs of 41.9 million We tested the costs settled during the year and accrued at the during the year, following the announcement of the strategic year end, verifying the obligations that existed at the balance Performance Improvement Plan, which have been classified sheet date.
The costs relate to centralisation of processes, streamlining of operations and changes in the ecommerce We challenged the reasonableness of managements judgement infrastructure.
regarding identification of the costs presented as exceptional.
In particular we verified that intangible assets written off were linked There can be complexity in the timing of recognition of costs, to Board approved strategic reorganisation and that the remaining completeness of the costs included and whether items are truly assets were in respect of ongoing projects.
one-off and exceptional in nature.
We also considered the appropriateness of the presentation and disclosure by management of the reorganisation costs as one-off, including discussions with senior management, review of Board papers, and internal communications made to staff to ensure that the nature of the costs and classification is consistent with the accounting principles.
Tax provisioning Similar to the approach adopted in the prior year, we involved our teams in key jurisdictions to assess the reasonableness Refer to page 88 Basis of Preparation and page 101 Note 9 of provisions held in the context of local tax law and any new Income tax expense developments in the application of these laws.
We have also The group continues to provide for uncertain tax positions in considered the impact of audits which have been concluded respect of transfer pricing.
The provision is based on the estimates during the year on the level of provisions to assess the accuracy of the potential outcome of audits by tax authorities in jurisdictions of managements estimates of potential tax exposures.
in which the group operates.
We discussed with management its rationale for the tax treatment Due to reorganisation of the Groups operations carried out in the of exceptional costs.
Management commissioned a study by the second half of the year, we have also considered the tax treatment Groups external advisers to specifically consider the treatment of exceptional costs as the impact of these could be material.
of the reorganisation costs in respect of transfer pricing.
We reviewed this study and noted it to be consistent with the conclusions reached by our own transfer pricing specialists.
We assessed this approach based on our knowledge of tax legislation and the current position adopted by tax authorities on similar matters.
We found managements treatment of these costs to be supportable.
com Electrocomponents plc 77 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Hedging and financing activities We examined the nature of the hedge relationships that were entered into and whether these were in line with the Groups Refer to page 88 Basis of Preparation and page 110 Note 21 treasury strategy.
For the derivatives outstanding at the year end Financial Instruments we assessed their completeness and existence through obtaining The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge currency external confirmations and their fair value through performing our and interest rate exposures on assets, liabilities and future cash own independent calculations.
flows in accordance with parameters approved by the Board.
The We checked compliance with specific hedge accounting net fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts was a liability requirements for net investment, fair value and cash flow of 4.6 million and the net fair value of interest rate swaps was an hedging.
We considered whether the hedge accounting asset of 11.2 million at 31 March 2016.
In particular the Group documentation and effectiveness rules were met and whether hedges the currency risk on its external debt, net investments hedge accounting could be achieved.
Our work examined the in overseas operations and on future purchases.
In addition, the accounting treatment applied for derivatives, in particular when Group hedge the interest rate risk on its external debt.
reclassifying gains and losses from reserves to the income Rules on accounting for derivative instruments are complex and statement and adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged hedge accounting requirements, including documentation, can be item.
Lack of compliance with documentation rules, hedge We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure of effectiveness rules, and probability criteria could lead to income financial instruments and the related hedge accounting by statement volatility.
agreeing the financial statements to the underlying workings Following the updated guidance from the IFRS Interpretation prepared by management and ensuring classification is Committee on cash pool netting in April 2016, management has consistent with the accounting principles.
reassessed its accounting policy in this area.
This has resulted in a We confirmed that management has the legal right of off-set change of presentation in respect of the multi-currency cash pools on the single currency cash pools and we have considered to reflect the updated accounting requirements to physically net managements intent to net settle both in the current year and balances at the year end going forwards.
under the updated guidance going forward.
We considered the accounting policy change in respect of the multi-currency cash pools and associated disclosure within the financial statements to determine if this is consistent with the accounting principles and how the cash pools are managed.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in 21 countries, which report into a centralised Group finance function.
The local finance functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Group finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of the UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, China and Electrocomponents Plc.
In each country we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that country.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group team visited all of the component teams to obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising.
We directed the work of component teams, reviewed the component team audit files and participated in the closing meetings of the significant components.
The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 79% of group revenues and 83% of group profit before tax and reorganisation costs.
78 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Financial Statements The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement items accounted for centrally, including goodwill impairment, derivative financial instruments, share based payments, and inventory provisioning were also audited by the group engagement team at the head office.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 3.6 million 2015: 3.7 million.
Overall group materiality 5% of profit before tax reorganisation costs of 41.9 million see Note 5 How we determined it Rationale for We believe that profit before tax adjusted for one-off items is the key measure used by the shareholders benchmark applied as a body in assessing the groups performance.
We consider that excluding the reorganisation costs is appropriate as this provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring impact of these items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.18 million 2015: 0.19 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 38 to 42 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
com Electrocomponents plc 79 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 74, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced exceptions to and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and parent report.
companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 43, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of We have no the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 24 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing material to add or to that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 24 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
80 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Financial Statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 74, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
com Electrocomponents plc 81 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Electrocomponents plc What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 May 2016 82 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
