Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Electra Private Equity PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the groups profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context Each year we undertake a planning process which involves meeting with the independent investment manager the Manager to understand the changes in the investment portfolio and to discuss any potentially complex valuation or accounting issues.
The groups return is driven by the performance of the underlying private equity investee companies and funds in which it holds a stake and so the underlying performance and prevailing trading conditions of these companies and funds is of particular relevance to our audit.
Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: 36 million which represents 1.75% of Net Assets.
Audit scope The principal activity of the group comprise investing in a portfolio of unlisted investments.
The group is based solely in the UK and the financial statements are a consolidation of the parent company and a number of subsidiaries which hold the investments.
We audited the financial statements of one significant subsidiary, the parent company and the investments held at fair value within entities controlled by the group which themselves do not require an audit.
Areas of focus Valuation of unlisted investments.
Recognition of unrealised gains and interest income.
Calculation of incentive scheme provision and priority profit share.
108 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of unlisted investments The unlisted investments are initially valued by the Manager and then Refer to page 146 of the Report of the Audit subject to review by the groups Valuations Committee.
We attended Committee, page 101 Basis of Accounting and the Valuations Committee meeting to observe this process and assess Significant Accounting Policies and page 76 the level of challenge and rigour in the valuations process.
We also Notes to the Financial Statements.
discussed with and challenged the Manager as to the appropriateness of the valuations, using our knowledge of the investments and the The group holds investments in unlisted International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines.
companies as well as various private equity funds and listed companies.
The valuation of the Applying a multiple to earnings has been used as the valuation unlisted investments is complex and requires methodology for 79% of the value of the unlisted investments.
For a the application of significant judgement by the sample of investments we tested the techniques which the Manager directors.
The unlisted investments are valued on used to value the unlisted investments as follows: a basis considered the most appropriate by the directors, dependent on the nature of the We obtained the Managers valuation model containing underlying business which has been invested in.
earnings, trading multiples for listed comparable companies and This includes: the multiple used to value the investment.
We checked the mathematical accuracy of the model.
applying a multiple to earnings: We obtained management information including budgets and using recent transaction prices: and forecasts from the portfolio companies being valued.
We used using underlying asset valuations.
this to corroborate the earnings being used in the model in relation to the unlisted company being valued.
We assessed the Where a multiple is applied to earnings the appropriateness of the earnings being used based on our multiple is normally calculated by taking a understanding of the financial performance of the portfolio discount to the multiple of similar, listed companies.
The discount reflects differences We independently sourced trading multiples for comparable between these companies and the company companies including, where applicable, considering whether being valued, for example, size and marketability other companies may be relevant and compared them to the differences between listed and unlisted multiples used in the valuation.
We discussed with management the discount taken to these comparable multiples to arrive at the multiple used in their Both determining the valuation methodology valuation.
This included considering changes in the discount since and determining the inputs to the valuation are the later of the deal date and the prior year-end date and subjective.
This, combined with the significance considering how this compared relative to the performance of the of the unlisted investments balance to the portfolio company against the relevant set of comparable Balance Sheet, meant that this was an area of companies.
We obtained independent confirmation from an appropriate person at the portfolio company to confirm the percentage and nominal holding of the debt and equity instruments.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 109 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Based on this work, we were satisfied that the assumptions used by the directors were acceptable and that the calculations were mathematically accurate.
Applying a recent transaction price has been used as the valuation methodology for 12% of the value of the unlisted investments.
For a sample of these investments, we challenged the Manager on whether there had been any changes in facts and circumstances since the deal date which may indicate that a change in valuation would be appropriate.
This included the use of financial information to assess the performance of the company.
Applying an underlying asset valuation has been used as the valuation methodology for 9% of the value of the unlisted investments.
For a sample of these investments, we corroborated these by tracing them to supporting documentation such as third party valuation reports.
We did not identify any issues as a result of this testing.
We assessed, using our knowledge of the investments and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines, whether the valuation methodologies applied to value the investments were appropriate and were satisfied that they were.
We also read the disclosures made in the financial statements regarding the key sensitivities in the valuations and were satisfied that these sensitivities were described appropriately in the notes to the financial statements.
Recognition of unrealised gains and We tested interest income receipts by tracing a sample to interestincome supporting documentation and performing procedures, including: See page 101 to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the related accounting agreeing amounts to bank statements: and policies, judgements and policies and page 76 recalculating interest income based on the terms of the for further information.
underlying investment and considering the recoverability of accrued income.
Investment income comprises mainly dividends and interest received from investments.
Dividends We recalculated unrealised gains on investments using the are recognised on the ex-dividend date and valuation movement in investments over the year.
These gains interest income is recognised on an effective yield were supported by the work we performed over the investment basis when the value attributed to the investee valuations as outlined above.
company supports the payment of interest.
There is therefore some subjectivity in the recognition We understood and evaluated the controls over the accuracy of interest income.
Net gains represent fair value increases in the We reviewed the revenue recognition accounting policy for value of investments over the financial year and compliance with applicable accounting standards and ensured gains made on the disposal of investments.
Fair that revenue is being accounted for in line with the policy.
value movements are unrealised and are based on the change in investment valuations which We did not identify any differences as a result of this work.
in themselves are subjective as noted above.
We assessed the appropriateness of the allocation of unrealised gains and interest income between income and capital and were Investment income and net gains is the measure satisfied that these had been allocated based on the requirements used to calculate returns being achieved by the of the Association of Investment Companies Statement of group and as the recognition of unrealised gains and interest income is subjective there is a Recommended Practice and on a basis consistent with prior years.
potential incentive for management to overstate these figures in order to enhance results.
110 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus This, combined with the size of the balance, made this an area of focus.
Investment income and net gains are presented as either income or capital in the primary statements depending on the nature of the underlying transaction.
Calculation of incentive schemes provision and We recalculated the amounts payable under the incentive schemes priority profit share and priority profit share using the methodology and fee rates See page 101 to the financial statements for the outlined in underlying scheme documentation in the management directors disclosures of the related accounting agreements.
policies, judgements and policies and Note 21 for further information.
For the incentive schemes, we checked inputs to the calculation back to supporting documentation such as: Incentive scheme provisions comprise amounts payable to certain members of the Manager to agreeing gains recognised on the sale of investments to the compensate them for their services in a way work we performed over net gains: and which aligns their remuneration with investment agreeing the gross value of investments to the work we performance.
There are a number of different performed over the fair value of investments.
schemes in place and the calculations are relatively complex which increases the risk of error.
This testing did not identify any differences.
The incentive scheme provisions are calculated We also recalculated the returns achieved to check that the based on a percentage share of a combination conditions of the incentive scheme agreements had been met of: before the incentives were paid and found the calculations to be the gross value of investments held: and mathematically accurate.
profits realised on the sale of investments.
For the priority profit share we recalculated the amounts paid each In some instances the percentages are variable quarter and agreed the inputs to the calculation to the underlying based on when certain returns are achieved.
We have also checked that the calculation was together with the dependency on investment consistent with the underlying priority profit share agreement and valuations means that some of the calculations was mathematically accurate.
No differences were identified are based on subjective judgements.
as a result of this testing.
In addition, the Manager is paid a priority profit We checked the assumptions used in determining whether any share based on a percentage of the value of adjustments were needed to the incentive scheme provision due investments at each quarter end.
Similar to the to the termination of the management agreement and found the incentive schemes, the investment valuations assumptions to be reasonable.
are a key input to the calculation and these are subjective in nature.
The nature of both the incentive scheme provisions and priority profit share charges means that there may be an incentive for these to be overstated.
When the management agreement with the Manager terminates in May 2017, any provision on post- 2006 pools, which remain unpaid at that date and any future uplift to them will be reduced by 20% which will revert back to the Company.
We have therefore considered whether any adjustments are required to the current provision balance to take account of this future 20% reduction.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 111 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The group has one line of business which is to make investments, primarily in the private equity sector.
The objective of the group is to increase the value of these investments over the long-term in order to deliver returns to shareholders.
The group comprises a number of subsidiary companies, including limited partnerships which hold the investments.
The Manager of the investments is not part of the group.
All accounting is performed by the finance function of the Manager in the UK.
Audit work has been performed in respect of one significant subsidiary which requires an audit of its own financial statements, together with the parent company.
The limited partnerships which hold the investments do not require an audit, however we have audited the investments held by them.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, has provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 36 million How we determined it 1.75% of Net Assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that net assets is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the group, and this is a generally accepted auditing benchmark used for companies in this industry.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.8 million 2015: 1.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on pages 120, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
112 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 138 to 145 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 148, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual to report.
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 146, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address to report.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 10 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the add or to draw attention to.
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material to are being managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 14 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, add or to draw attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 113 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
114 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 8 December 2016 T he maintenance and integrity of the Electra Private Equity PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 115 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
