Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc Opinion on financial statements of Elementis plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated Financial Statement related notes 1 to 31: the Parent Company Balance Sheet: the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and, the Parent Company Statutory Accounts related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Environmental provisions: Post-retirement benefits: Deferred tax assets: and Revenue recognition.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $4.7 million which was determined on the basis of 6.2 per cent of profit before tax.
Scoping We have performed full scope audits of five components comprising 88 per cent of the Groups revenue and 94 per cent of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes After his appointment during the year, the CEO reorganised the leadership team and we have inourapproach structured our component audit teams to follow this structure as closely as possible.
This resulted in the identification of six components, of which five are considered to be significant to the Group.
We have included an additional risk over revenue recognition given the proportion of audit effort and allocation of resources as part of our audit strategy.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 63 Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc continued Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the attention to in respect of these matters.
going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 tothe financial statements and the Directors statement on We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going thelonger-term viability of the Group contained within the concern basis of accounting and we did not identify Directors report on page 61. anysuch material uncertainties.
However, because notallfuture events or conditions can be predicted, We are required to state whether we have anything material thisstatement is not a guarantee as to the Groups toadd or draw attention to in relation to: ability to continue as a going concern.
the Directors confirmation on page 17 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 19 to 21 that describe those risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate toadopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 61 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to beappropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting We confirm that we are independent of the Group Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we andwehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other inaccordance with those standards.
We also confirm ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
wehave not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Environmental provisions Risk description In line with other companies within the chemicals industry, Elementis holds provisions for the monitoring and remediation of a number of operating and legacy sites, including those sold off orno longer occupied.
In accordance with Elementiss environmental provision policy, a provision isrecognised for the restoration of contaminated land when the land is contaminated.
As at 31December 2016, Elementis holds a provision of $31.4 million 2015: $29.5 million against theseliabilities.
The accounting for these provisions involves judgement as to the estimated future cash flows required to remediate these sites.
The determination of these cash flows and the discount rates applied is fundamental to this audit risk.
The Groups accounting policy is included within note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, where this is included as a critical accounting judgement.
There is additional disclosure included within note 15.
The Audit Committee discussion is included on page 36.
64 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information How the scope of our audit We have audited the assumptions used in managements calculation of the provision.
responded to the risk Ourprocedures included: Holding discussions with management and the Groups external environmental consultants on the identified environmental issues to confirm our understanding of the current situation and to understand the process by which management and the external consultants prepared the cash flow forecasts.
Performing searches of external databases to determine completeness of the identified environmental issues and sites.
Assessing recent forecasting accuracy against actual performance.
For a sample of locations, agreeing the forecast cash flows to supporting documentation and historical experience and assessed the expected monitoring time frames.
Involving our internal valuation specialists to challenge the appropriateness of the discount rates applied by comparison to our own internal benchmark data.
Key observations As a result of our work, we have concluded that the provisions held by Elementis in relation to environmental remediation and monitoring appear reasonable.
We note that management had reassessed the discount rate used in the calculation of the provision, which has resulted in a one-off charge to the income statement of $4.5 million.
Post-retirement bene ts Risk description Elementis provides post-retirement benefits, including defined benefit pensions and  benefits, to employees in a number of locations, primarily the US and the UK.
There are significant judgements made in valuing the Groups obligations in respect of these schemes, namely the discount rates, inflation rates and mortality assumptions and a change in oneof these assumptions could give rise to a material impact on the financial statements and the Group has engaged actuarial specialists to assist management in this regard.
The Group has valued the net liability for all schemes after offsetting against the scheme assets of $30.1 million 2015: $29.0 million.
The gross liability for all schemes was $842.8 million 2015: $869.9 million.
The Groups accounting policy is included within note 1, where this is also included as a key source of estimation uncertainty.
Additional disclosures on the assumptions used in valuing the schemes are included within note 23 of the financial statements, which includes details of the principal assumptions used, as well as the key movements in the assets and obligations of the schemes.
The Audit Committees consideration in respect of this risk is included on page 37.
How the scope of our audit For each of the material schemes held by the Group, we have performed the following substantive responded to the risk audit procedures: Involved our own actuarial specialists to challenge the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the valuation of the schemes liabilities, to determine whether they are reasonable by comparison to external benchmark data and by consideration of the methodology used to derive the assumptions.
Tested the completeness and accuracy of the information provided to the Groups actuarial specialists.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the methodology and assumptions applied in determining the scheme liabilities are appropriate.
Deferred tax assets Risk description The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of $16.1 million 2015: $14.2 million, including $23.0million 2015: $34.0 million in respect of Advanced Corporation Tax ACT credits as a result of franking credits paid on historical dividends pre-1999.
There is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting the future profits which support the extent to which these assets can be recovered.
The Groups accounting policy is included within note 1, where this is also included as a key source of estimation uncertainty, as well as additional disclosure within note 16.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 65 Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc continued How the scope of our audit We have engaged our own internal tax specialist to assist in understanding and assessing the responded to the risk Group structuring put in place to determine whether the ACT credits were kept available for future use by the Group.
We have considered the relevant tax legislation and the measures implemented by management to ensure that the ACT credits are available for future use.
We have reviewed correspondence with HMRC and other supporting documentation to determine the historic amounts paid in respect of ACT and assessed managements determination of the amounts available for use by the Group.
We have reviewed and challenged the technical advice that management have received in respect of the ACT credits.
We have also assessed the forecast future pro ts by: considering the process by which management had prepared its forecasts: assessing recent forecasting accuracy against actual performance: determining whether the 2017 projections for the UK were consistent with the budget for 2017 asadopted by management and approved by the Board of Directors: and determining whether the cash flow projections for 2018 and 2019 as included in managements three year plan were in line with our understanding of trends in the business.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable in the context of the information currently available to them and no matters were identified by our work that was not adequately reflected in the estimate of the amounts recoverable.
Revenue recognition Risk description Revenue is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and an adjustment is made at the period end for goods which have been despatched but have not yet met the criteria for recognition.
This adjustment is made using managements best estimate of the date at which goods reach the destination port.
Management have determined that a more prudent revenue recognition policy, based on the shipping terms, is to recognise revenue ata reliable estimate of the date at which goods reach the destination port and that therefore they have applied this accounting policy change retrospectively.
The accounting policy is described in note 1 and additional disclosure on the restatement, including the financial impact, is given in note 31 and is also given in the Audit Committee report on page 37.
How the scope of our audit We have performed the following procedures in order to address the risk: responded to the risk reviewed and assessed the commercial arrangements covering shipments, to determine the correct point of revenue recognition for different shipment arrangements and agreements with customers: selected a sample of international shipments made pre-year end for time periods varying by destination port and therefore transit time for shipments and agreed these to customer order, shipment and invoice details, cash receipts and goods receipt notes: and substantively tested post year end credit notes raised to determine if revenue was inappropriately recognised in the year.
Key observations From the work performed, we agree with managements assessment and application of the new accounting policy.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwe do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
66 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our application of materiality We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or in uenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $4.7 million 2015: $6.0 million Basis for determining Materiality was set on the basis of forecast profit before tax, and is calculated at 6.2 per cent of materiality profit before tax.
In 2015 the previous auditor set materiality on the basis of 4.9 per cent of profit before tax.
Rationale for the We have used profit before tax as the benchmark for our determination of materiality as benchmarkapplied weconsiderthis to be a critical performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a keymetric to analysts and investors and has substantial prominence in the Annual Report.
Component materiality range $2.35m to $2.8m Group materiality $4.7m PBT $75.5m Audit Committee reporting threshold $0.235m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $235,000 2015: $300,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identi ed when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
After his appointment during the year, the CEO reorganised the leadership team and we have structured our component audit teams tofollow this structure as closely as possible.
This resulted in the identi cation of six components, of which five are considered to be signi cant to the Group: the Specialty Products operations in the US, the Chromium operations in the US: the Specialty Products operations in the UK: the Specialty Products operations in Taiwan, including the Chinese operations: and the Surfactants operations in the Netherlands.
All five of these locations were subject to full scope audits performed by local component teams, except the Specialties UK operations where the Group audit team performed the audit without the involvement of a component team.
Our audit work at the five locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $2.5 million to $2.8 million 2015: $0.4 million to $4.7 million.
As this was our first year as auditor, the Senior Statutory auditor and senior members of the Group audit team visited each component team at least once, and in some cases twice, during the year.
Going forward, the Senior Statutory Auditor plans to visit the US component team at least once each year and all other locations at least once every two years.
In addition to the planned programme ofvisits, we send detailed instructions to our component teams, include them in our team brie ng, discuss their risk assessment, andreview documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to con rm our conclusion that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject toaudit or audit of speci ed account balances.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 67 Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc continued 6% 12% Pro t Revenue before tax 88% 94% Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at Group level Review at Group level Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identi ed any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by theparent company, or returns adequate for our audit havenot been received from branches not visited by us: orthe parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part ofthe Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
68 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not identified any such Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, inconsistencies or misleading statements.
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kerr Mitchell, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 1 March 2017 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2016 69
