COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Essentra plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 88 to 145.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit significance, that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Identified risk Our response Carrying value of goodwill 348.0m 2015: 367.2m and customer relationships 223.8m 2015: 317.2m Our procedures included evaluating the Groups key assumptions New risk in 2016 Refer to page 61 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2016 and methodology, in particular those in respect of the Health & Personal Care Packaging group of CGUs.
We challenged the Annual Report, page 96 accounting policy and pages 110 to 112 financial disclosures.
Groups growth assumptions and cash flow projections by comparing to recent historical trading performance, benchmarking The risk The Group has significant goodwill and intangible against external data on market growth rates and assessing operating margins at sites that have experienced continuing assets that arose on past acquisitions, whose recoverability is dependent on the ability of the businesses acquired sustaining operational issues as a result of site consolidation.
sufficient profitability in the future and the Group realising synergy savings associated with the acquisitions.
We obtained an understanding of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and considered the The carrying value of these assets is assessed for impairment historical accuracy of key assumptions by comparing the accuracy of the previous estimates of revenue and cost growth to the actual at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the assets may be impaired.
Intangibles are tested for impairment amounts realised.
at the level of the cash-generating unit CGU to which they belong, and goodwill is tested at the level of the relevant group We used our own valuation specialists to assist us to critically challenge the discount rates used by the Group, by comparing the of CGUs.
The impairment reviews are based on discounted cash flow projections, reflecting a number of assumptions inputs and forecast risk against external data.
and estimates which require significant judgment and are inherently uncertain.
We applied sensitivities to the key judgements and assumptions, such as the discount rates and long term revenue growth rates In the period, an impairment has been recognised in the Health and operating margins, used by the Group in its impairment calculations to evaluate the impact on the headroom for those & Personal Care Packaging group of CGUs due to operational issues from the integration of the Clondalkin acquisition CGUs or groups of CGUs with lower headroom.
The risk associated with the carrying value of the remaining goodwill and customer relationships, which To assess reasonableness of the forecast cash flows, we compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation.
has not been impaired in the year, is dependent on the Group retaining its customer base and demand for the current We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect portfolio of products.
of impairment testing, and whether disclosures in relation to the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets.
146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Identified risk Our response Revenue recognition 998.5m 2015: 1,006.5m New risk in 2016 Our procedures included testing transactions before and after Refer to pages 60 to 61 Report of the Audit Committee of the period-end, by agreeing to underlying documentation, in order 2016 Annual Report, pages 97 to 98 accounting policy and to assess whether sales were recorded in the appropriate period.
We compared the monthly revenue trend in the period against The risk The Group generates revenue through a high volume of prior year with an emphasis on sales around the period-end, transactions, with a peak towards the end of the financial year.
challenging the directors on rationale for significant variances, This increases the risk that sales are not recognised in the and performing additional procedures where relevant, to assess appropriate period.
In the period, the Group has published a number of downwards We inspected a sample of manually-entered revenue journal revisions to its revenue and profit guidance as a result of entries and assessed whether these reflected the underlying challenging market and operational conditions.
There have been conditions or transactions and were recorded in the significant associated decreases in the Groups share price.
circumstances give rise to an increased risk of management bias or fraud over the timing of revenue recognition.
Presentation of exceptional items for continuing and discontinued operations 133.7m 2015: 39.1m New risk in 2016 We critically assessed the Group policy and criteria for exceptional Refer to page 61 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2016 items and considered whether the resulting presentation gives Annual Report, pages 98 to 99 accounting policy and page a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Group's 104 financial disclosures.
The risk The Groups measure of underlying profit, is stated We assessed whether the approach taken to identify exceptional before exceptional items including goodwill impairment of items was consistent between gains and losses and by using our 123.9m 2015: nil and other exceptional items of 9.8m 2015: knowledge of the Groups transactions gained throughout the 39.1m.
The Directors believe that the separate identification of audit, we considered the completeness of exceptional items.
exceptional items and the resulting presentation of alternative We considered whether the same category of material items income statement measures can assist shareholders to obtain have been treated consistently each year.
a better understanding of the Groups performance.
We considered any material recurring items and challenged the As there is limited specific guidance in IFRS for the definition Directors as to how these are one off in nature and are separately and presentation of exceptional items in the income statement, presented as exceptional.
judgement is required to identify those items of income or expense which are exceptional whilst still presenting a fair, We agreed material items to underlying documentation balanced and understandable view of financial performance.
The identification of exceptional items should therefore be even handed between gains and losses, clearly disclosed and applied consistently year on year.
Judgement is needed to determine if material items of the same nature and amount, which recur in multiple periods, should continue to be shown as exceptional rather than part of the Group's underlying operating activities.
Due to the increased judgement around the identification of items presented as exceptional in the current year, we have identified this as one of the key judgemental areas that our audit focused on.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Identified risk Our response Taxation liabilities 24.4m 2015: 26.8m Refer to page 60 Report of the Audit Committee of the 2016 We used our own tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, Annual Report, page 97 accounting policy and pages 105 to its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse 106 financial disclosures.
and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of the The risk Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and courts.
exposures due to the Group operating in a number of different tax jurisdictions and the complexities of transfer pricing and We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect other international tax legislation.
of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.45m 2015: 7.2m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation for continuing and discontinued operations normalised for exceptional operating items of 86.5m 2015: 129.5m which it represents 6.3% 2015: 5.6%.
We reported to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.27m 2015: 0.35m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups reporting components, we subjected 48 2015: 25 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 11 2015: 8 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
In aggregate our audit procedures covered 73% of total Group revenue: 92% of Group profit before taxation for continuing and discontinued operations normalised for exceptional operating items: and 80% of Group net assets.
The remaining 27% 2015: 28% of Group revenue, 8% 2015: 3% of Group profit before tax and 20% 2015: 22% of Group net assets is represented by 82 2015: 85 components, none of which individually represented more than 2% 2015: 2% of total Group Revenue or 3% 2015: 4% of Group profit before tax, or 4% 2015: 3% of Group net assets.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.1m 2015: 0.1m to 2.7m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all 2015: all components were performed by component auditors.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
The Group audit team visited 5 2015: 4 component locations in United Kingdom, United States and Hungary to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone meetings were also held with component auditors of key regions and the Group audit team attended a selection of component auditors closing meetings with the components local management team.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of viability on page 86, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2019: or the disclosures in Note A of the accounting policies on page 93 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 86 and 93, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 51 to 57 of the 2016 Annual Report relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 87 of the 2016 Annual Report, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 17 February 2017 150
