Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit The claims outstanding reserve includes specific claims 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified reserves for reported claims plus an estimate for claims We have audited the financial statements of esure Group incurred but not reported IBNR as some claims can plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages take some time to emerge or develop.
In our opinion: are required to determine the actuarial best estimate of reported claims and the IBNR.
Resulting key areas of focus the financial statements give a true and fair view of the are the actuarial assumptions, such as claims development state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs trends and discount rates applied to PPOs, and the as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the completeness and accuracy of the data underlying the year then ended: actuarial projections.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial An additional margin is included in the claims outstanding Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: reserve above the actuarial best estimate to account for the parent company financial statements have been current uncertainties around factors that may influence the properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting final cost of settlement of the claims.
The margin is based Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure on the Directors judgement, supported by quantitative and Framework: and qualitative analysis to inform their views.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act Claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers: 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, A portion of the claims outstanding balance is recoverable Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
from reinsurers dependent on the reinsurance coverage of the relevant claims.
An element of judgement is involved in 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the valuation relating to the level of reinsurance coverage In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial of the IBNR which depends on the specific terms of the statements the risks of material misstatement, in reinsurance contracts in place.
Reinsurer credit default also decreasing order of audit significance, that had the greatest results in credit risk over these reinsurance recoveries, effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2015 : being particularly relevant for the recoveries associated with the claims outstanding that have a long duration.
Claims outstanding 672.9m 2015: 614.2m and claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers Our response 271.1m 2015: 209.3m.
Risk vs 2015: vw Gross claims outstanding: We have tested governance arrangements and key Refer to page 40 Audit Committee Report, page 87 controls around the internal reserving process, including accounting policy and pages 109 to 113 financial controls over the setting of reserves for reported claims disclosures.
and controls over the completeness and accuracy of the data underlying the actuarial projections, such as data in The risks: respect of current and historical claims, used to set the As part of its business model the Group incurs insurance reserve for IBNR.
claims and there is typically a time lag between a claim We evaluated the competence, capabilities and being incurred and being reported and subsequently objectivity of the internal and external actuaries settled.
The resulting claims outstanding on the Groups used by the Group, based on discussions with them, balance sheet at any point in time, including year-end, are our knowledge of the actuaries qualifications and the therefore significant.
Valuation of the claims outstanding professional standards that their work is subject to, and has inherent risk of uncertainty with some claims not yet by providing challenge to their analysis through the being reported and the final costs of the majority of claims procedures described below.
outstanding being unknown at the point of reporting.
A We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in portion of these claims outstanding are recoverable from our challenge of the reserving methodology and the key reinsurers based on the policies in place across the Group.
We have assessed these assumptions At 31 December 2016 the Group had claims outstanding for reasonableness, through analytical procedures representing 55% 2015: 56% of total liabilities, and including claims development trends over time, as well claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers as consistency with prior periods.
We considered the representing 18% 2015: 14% of total assets.
movement in reserves relating to claims incurred in prior years to assess the reasonableness of Directors past Gross claims outstanding: assumptions and the methodology used to estimate The valuation of claims outstanding remains one of the claims outstanding.
Where there have been changes in key judgemental areas upon which our audit is concentrated, the methodology or key assumptions we have assessed due to the level of subjectivity inherent in the estimation of whether these are reasonable based on changes in the the effect of uncertain or unknown future events and the industry and the Groups historical claims experience, resulting potential exposure to large losses.
The most and have considered whether all changes we would notable claim events with significant levels of uncertainty expect to see have been made.
We have also considered include losses arising from periodic payment orders PPOs the reasonableness of the differences in methodologies, a structured settlement in the form of a regular series of assumptions and projections between the internal and payments over the remainder of a claimants life and which external actuary by understanding the rationale for both approaches and comparing the impact of these inherently has considerable uncertainty associated with it in respect of longevity and cost inflation, see page 109 and differences on the outputs in the context of materiality for the Group financial statements.
In doing the above, large bodily injury claims for motor insurance.
we have focused on the amounts provided both on PPOs, due to their inherent uncertainty, and large bodily injury claims in the context of significant uncertainty.
This is 74 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials especially relevant in relation to the uncertainty over During the year, there was a demerger of one of the estimating the ultimate claims liabilities given the change Groups components, Gocompare.
For ten months in line Ogden rate, over which sensitivity analysis has of the year, this component was part of the Group been performed.
and consolidated accordingly into the Group financial We benchmarked the Groups methodology, key statements.
The Group team instructed the Gocompare.
assumptions and projected results such as the ultimate com component auditor to perform an audit for Group loss ratios, being the ultimate losses as a proportion of reporting purposes over the significant area of profit before the premiums received against our expectations given tax, for the ten-month period to be consolidated and the our cumulative knowledge of the sector.
information to be reported back.
The audit of the remainder In respect of the margin that the Directors have set over of the Group including its components was undertaken by the internal actuarial best estimate, we considered the the Group audit team.
The components scoped in for Group consistency of the margin applied against developments reporting accounted for 100% of total Group revenue, in the level of uncertainty over the claims.
This also Group total assets, and Group profit before tax.
The Group included a critical assessment of the quantitative and team approved the component materialities, which ranged qualitative considerations made by the Directors when from 1.25m to 6.7m 2015: 1.0m to 5.6m, having selecting the specific level of margin to be held for the regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group period as well as consideration of industry related across the components.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the disclosures over the degree of estimation uncertainty Companies Act 2006 is unmodified and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in In our opinion: assumptions, and assessed whether the disclosures comply with relevant accounting standards.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We have sampled a number of large loss reserves to audited has been properly prepared in accordance with verify that case reserves held are supported by the Companies Act 2006: and underlying documentation and are quantified in line with the information given in the Strategic Report and the the Groups reserving methodology.
We have also Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with performed trend analysis over specific characteristics of the financial statements.
case reserves and obtained explanations for variances and outliers.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from Claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers: reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: We evaluated and tested key controls around reinsurers share of claims outstanding, including the governance we have not identified material misstatements in those process in determining reinsurance IBNR and reports: and reinsurance credit controls in place to provide comfort in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in over the recoverability of amounts owed by reinsurers.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We used our own actuarial specialists to assist in evaluating the appropriateness of reinsurance recoveries 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of on IBNR by considering the historical ratios of paid and principal risks reported claims, net of reinsurance recoveries to paid Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, and reported claims, gross of reinsurance recoveries.
we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in We assessed the methodology applied to calculate the relation to: allowance for reinsurance bad debt, by reference to common approaches within the market and consistency the Directors viability statement on pages 24 to 27, with prior periods.
We assessed the existence of any concerning the principal risks, their management, and, potential indicators of credit default issues with regard based on that, the Directors assessment and to reinsurance over reported claims through analysing expectations of the Groups continuing in operation aged debt and reinsurance counterparty credit ratings.
over the next three years to 31 December 2019: or the disclosures on page 71 concerning the use of the 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the going concern basis of accounting.
scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters was set at 7.5m 2015: 6.6m, determined with reference on which we are required to report by exception to a benchmark of Group total income including revenue Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to contributed by Gocompare.
com, consistent with 2015, of you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our which it represents approximately 1% 2015: 1%.
Group audit, we have identified other information in the Annual total income is considered to be the most appropriate Report that contains a material inconsistency with either benchmark as it provides a more stable measure that knowledge or the financial statements, a material year-on-year than Group profit before tax against misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.4m 2015: 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 75 Independent auditors report to the members of esure group plc only continued In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Corporate Governance Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 68 and 24, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 46 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 9 March 2017 76 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
