Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion: Euromoney Institutional Investor PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at September 30 2016 and of the groups profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at September 30 2016: the Company Balance Sheet as at September 30 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH OVERVIEW MATERIALITY Overall group materiality: 4.1m which represents 5% of statutory profit before tax, adjusted for certain non-recurring items.
AUDIT SCOPE We conducted work in four key territories, being the UK, US, Canada and India.
This included full scope audits at five components with specified procedures performed at a further three components.
Taken together, the components at which audit work has been performed accounted for approximately 75% of the groups revenue, 76% of the groups statutory profit before tax and 91% of the groups statutory profit before tax, adjusted for certain non-recurring items.
AREAS OF FOCUS Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles Carrying value of investments Uncertain tax positions Pensions Presentation of exceptional items 59 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 WWW.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, understanding and testing management incentive plans, undertaking cut-off procedures to test proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Areas of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained managements goodwill impairment model and tested the reasonableness of CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL AND key assumptions, including revenue, profit and cash ow growth rates, cash conversion, ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS terminal values and the selection of discount rates.
We agreed the underlying cash ow Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 39 and projections to management approved budgets and forecasts and assessed how these to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
Deploying our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth The group has 551.1m of goodwill and intangible rate and discount rate applied to each CGU compared with third party information, past assets, including 148.3m of acquired intangibles performance, the groups cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
We evaluated indicative and 396.1m of goodwill as at September 30 2016. offers from third parties where CGUs are held for sale and have therefore been valued on a fair value less cost of disposal basis.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering During the year, the group recognised a 27.0m historical performance and managements forecasting accuracy by applying any current year impairment charge in relation to goodwill for Mining budget shortfalls to future forecasts to highlight the CGUs with either lower headroom Indaba 12.9m, HedgeFund Intelligence HFI or which are more sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
We focussed our attention 5.9m and Total Derivatives 8.2m.
The group on those businesses where headroom has decreased or where management has identied also recognised a 1.7m impairment in relation to impairments, namely Mining Indaba, HFI, Total Derivatives and Euromoney Indices.
the acquired intangible assets for Euromoney Indices.
We performed our own sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of reasonable changes The carrying values of goodwill and acquired in managements assumptions on the available headroom.
We challenged the significant intangible assets are contingent on future cash ows assumptions, specically relating to revenue and profit growth in light of the individual of the underlying cash generating units CGUs CGUs past performance to assess whether the forecasts are achievable.
We focussed in and there is a risk that if these cash ows do not particular on the goodwill relating to Ned Davis Research, Inc. NDR which is more sensitive meet managements expectations the assets will be to change than other CGUs.
We considered the need for additional sensitivity disclosures for impaired.
The cash ow forecasts and related value this CGU as required by IAS 36 and we agreed with managements decision to provide these in use calculations include a number of significant additional disclosures for NDR given that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions judgements and estimates including profit growth, would give rise to an impairment.
cash conversion, terminal growth rate and discount rate.
Where fair value less cost of disposal rather We checked for any additional impairment triggers in other businesses through discussions than value in use has been used to value CGUs, with management, review of management accounts and board minutes and examining the related calculations are based on an estimate performance of recent acquisitions to identify under-performing businesses.
of disposal proceeds where businesses are held for As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge recognised in 2016 was sale.
Changes in the key assumptions underpinning appropriate.
For those intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined these calculations have a significant impact on the that no impairment was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures should be headroom available in the impairment calculations.
given, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
60 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Areas of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained managements impairment model and tested the reasonableness of key CARRYING VALUE OF INVESTMENTS assumptions, including revenue, profit and cash ow growth rates, terminal value and the Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 39 and selection of discount rate.
We engaged directly with Dealogic management to understand to note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
key performance trends and the basis for future projections.
We reviewed Dealogics The group has 35.8m of investments including quarterly trading history in order to determine any impairment indicators and to evaluate 29.8m of investment in associates, 0.2m of historical accuracy of budgeting.
We agreed Euromoney managements base case cash ow investment in joint ventures and 5.8m of availableprojections to Dealogics board approved budgets.
We assessed Euromoney managements for-sale investments.
downside case projections utilised for impairment review purposes.
We deployed our valuations experts to assess the terminal growth rate and discount rate applied by Euromoney We focussed on the groups investment in Diamond management compared with third party information, past performance, the groups cost TopCo Limited Dealogic and the key accounting of capital and relevant risk factors.
Even based on Euromoney managements downwards judgements taken by management in relation to this adjusted cash ow projections, we noted that the carrying value of the investment was investment, namely: supportable.
Managements assumptions would require significant downside changes The assessment of the recoverability of the before any material impairment was necessary.
investment: and We assessed managements judgement regarding classication of Dealogic as an associate Consideration of the ongoing judgement that the and the extent to which the group is able to exert significant inuence.
We agreed the key investment in Dealogic should be accounted for terms of Euromoneys relationship with Dealogic to the shareholders agreement and articles as an associate on the basis of the group having of association, including shareholder voting rights of 20% and how these are enforceable, significant inuence.
and we validated managements attendance and exercise of significant inuence at Dealogic board meetings.
We were satisfied that it remains appropriate to equity account for Dealogic as an associate given the groups ongoing exercise of significant inuence.
We evaluated managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the groups tax provisions.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 39 and to notes 8 and 22 to the consolidated financial In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we deployed our tax specialists statements.
and considered third party tax advice received by the group, the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions The group operates in a complex multinational tax taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
environment in relation to direct and indirect taxes and there are a number of open tax matters with We undertook an independent assessment of tax risks, including permanent establishment tax authorities, especially in the UK, US and Canada.
risks in the groups most material markets UK, US and Canada and we evaluated the From time to time the group enters into transactions appropriateness and completeness of related tax provisions.
with complicated accounting and tax consequences and judgement is required in assessing the level In particular, we focussed on managements assessment of the open US sales tax inquiry of provisions needed in respect of uncertain tax for which an additional provision of 7.9m has been recorded in 2016.
confirmed and discussed this matter directly with the groups external legal adviser and we are satisfied with the position taken.
In addition, the group recorded an additional provision amounting to 7.9m relating to a potential From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning for direct and indirect US sales tax exposure based on an adverse court taxes to be acceptable in the context of the consolidated financial statements taken as a ruling in June 2016. whole.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued Areas of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We considered managements IAS 19 assumptions used in determining the net dened PENSIONS benefit liability as at September 30 2016 by deploying our pension experts to test the Refer to note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
reasonableness of key assumptions, including discount rate, RPI ination rate and CPI The company operates the Metal Bulletin Pension ination rate, by considering the methods and inputs used in determining the assumptions Scheme MBPS and participates in the Harmsworth compared to market comparisons.
We also tested the existence and valuation of the plan Pension Scheme HPS, which is a group scheme assets at year-end through direct conrmations with investment managers.
We tested operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the underlying census data and validated that no new participants joined the HPS and both of which are now closed to new participants.
MBPS schemes during the year and that any movements were veried to supporting documentation.
As a result of our work, we concluded that the assumptions used in As at September 30 2016, the group recognised determining the net dened benefit liability were within our expected range.
a net dened benefit liability of 10.0m 2015: 2.0m, which has increased mainly due to a We evaluated managements accounting treatment for the recognition of the Harmsworth decrease in discount rate along with the recognition Pension Scheme in 2016 and we note that management has treated the recognition of of the groups share 1.2m of an additional Euromoneys share of the scheme as a past service cost which has been charged to the pension scheme.
Previously, HPS was accounted for consolidated income statement.
We considered this approach to be appropriate and in the consolidated financial statements as a dened supportable.
contribution scheme as DMGT did not have a policy of allocating the net dened benefit scheme deficit to other DMGT group entities.
However, due to a change in DMGTs policy at year-end, Euromoneys share of the underlying assets and liabilities has now been recognised.
There is management judgement inherent in the assumptions selected to value the liabilities of both dened benefit schemes.
62 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Areas of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made to statutory profit measures PRESENTATION OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS to derive adjusted profit measures.
We understood managements rationale for classifying Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 38 and items as exceptional and considered whether this is reasonable and appropriate in arriving to note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
at an adjusted profit measure for 2016.
The group continues to present adjusted earnings We considered the goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment charges.
Due to the by making adjustments for costs and profits which size and nature of these impairments, we accepted managements presentation of these management believes to be exceptional by virtue of items as exceptional.
During the year, the group presented 37.3m of We considered the provision for US sales taxes to be exceptional by nature of its size and recognising that the additional provision taken in 2016 all relates to prior periods.
net costs as exceptional items, comprising: goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment charges We considered the appropriateness of the restructuring costs determined to be exceptional 28.6m : provision for US sales tax 7.9m : and, on the basis that they all relate to a series of linked initiatives underpinning onerestructuring and other exceptional costs 6.5m : off strategic changes implemented by the group in 2016, we accepted managements recognition of the Harmsworth dened benefit presentation of these items as exceptional.
We confirmed that restructuring costs not scheme 1.2m : offset by profit on disposal of associated with this major restructuring programme have not been treated as exceptional businesses 7.1m.
and have continued to be charged within rather than excluded from the groups adjusted profit measures.
Given that the group presents adjusted earnings measures in addition to its statutory results, we Similarly, the recognition of the Harmsworth dened benefit pension scheme for the first focussed on the classication of these items as time in 2016 was triggered by a one-off change in accounting policy and will not recur and exceptional in the consolidated financial statements, was accepted as being exceptional on this basis.
We were satisfied that excluding the oneparticularly considering the nature of such items, off profit on disposal of businesses from adjusted profit was consistent with the groups whether they are non-recurring and whether they historical practice and demonstrates an even handed approach to adjusting for credits as are significant in size.
well as debits in arriving at an adjusted profit measure.
We considered the appropriateness and transparency of the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements regarding the nature of the reconciling items between statutory and adjusted profit measures, especially in the context of the principle that financial reporting as a whole should be fair, balanced and understandable.
As a result of our work, we determined that the classication of exceptional items was appropriate, that the groups policy in this area has been consistently applied and that the rationale for including or excluding items from adjusted profit has been consistently applied across gains and losses.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the group operates.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of 183 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
We identied five components in the US, Canada and UK that required a full scope audit due to size.
For a further three components in the US, UK and India, specic audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed to give appropriate audit coverage.
None of the components not included in our group audit scope individually contributed more than 5% to consolidated revenue or 8% to statutory profit before tax, adjusted for certain non-recurring items.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components by us, as the group audit team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network rms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
We performed full scope audits in respect of Euromoney Trading Limited UK, Euromoney Global Limited UK, BCA Research, Inc. Canada, Institutional Investor, Inc.
US and Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC UK the parent company which, in our view, were nancially significant and required a full scope audit due to their size.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued We performed specified procedures at Ned Davis Research, Inc.
US over revenue and receivables including accrued and deferred revenue, ISI India over cash and Tipall Limited UK over property, plant and equipment.
This ensured that appropriate audit procedures were performed to achieve sufficient coverage over these financial statement line items.
In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our component audit teams, we conducted visits to our full scope components in the US and Canada, which included le reviews and attendance at key audit meetings with local management.
We also had regular dialogue with all component teams throughout the year.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and corporate functions were audited by the group audit team.
This included our work over goodwill and intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, post-retirement benets, share-based payments and tax.
Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 75% of the groups revenue, 76% of the groups statutory profit before tax and 91% of the groups statutory profit before tax, adjusted for certain non-recurring items.
This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures, which covers certain of the groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our group audit scope.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 4.1m 2015: 4.3m How we determined it 5% of statutory profit before tax of 43.9m, adjusted for certain non-recurring items comprising the exceptional items identied in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements and amounting to 37.3m.
Rationale for benchmark applied The groups principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted operating profit, which adjusts statutory profit for a number of income and expenditure items.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in non-recurring items.
We have taken this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we have not adjusted profit before tax to add back amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share of results in associates and joint ventures or net finance costs as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the groups earnings.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.1m and 3.7m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 0.2m 2015: 0.2m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement set out on page 43 in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and the company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to remain in operation, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
64 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
Information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 45, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and the company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 37 and 38, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report.
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation on page 45 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing material to add Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those or to draw attention to.
that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or We have nothing material to add mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material to add Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and or to draw attention to.
why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
COM EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC continued ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 44 and 45, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
GILES HANNAM Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom November 24 2016 66 24992.04 16 December 2016 4:22 PM Proof 6
