Independent Auditors report to the Members of EVRAZ plc Our opinion on the Financial Statements In our opinion EVRAZ plcs financial statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited EVRAZ plcs financial statements comprise: Group Company the Consolidated Statement of Operations, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Separate Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: the Separate Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Separate Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: and the Separate Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 34. the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview 1 Materiality Overall Group materiality of $41.0 million which represents 2.7% of adjusted EBITDA.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of five components and audit procedures on specific balances, where we consider the risk of material misstatement to be higher, for a further ten components.
The 15 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 78% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA and 93% of the Groups revenue of which 60% and 76% respectively were covered by full scope components.
For the remaining 45 reporting components of the Group with no individual component greater than 6% of EBITDA or 1% of Revenue we have performed other procedures appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Areas of focus Goodwill and non-current asset impairment Going concern Completeness of related party transactions What has changed In the prior year the accounting for a contract with Praxair was assessed as an area of audit focus.
As the determination of the accounting treatment was a once-off event and considered to be appropriate, we have concluded that this is no longer an area of audit focus in 2016.
1 Managements EBITDA in the annual report does not include social and charitable expenditure.
These expenses have been included in adjusted EBITDA used for our calculation of materiality as they are incurred every year.
138 Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Our assessment of focus areas We identified the following risks that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Consolidated financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these issues as areas of focus and our audit response are set out in the table on pages 139 to 140.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated with each focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2015.
Changes from the prior year Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the EVRAZ business and impacting the Consolidated financial statements.
Since the 2015 audit we have made the following changes to our areas of focus: The accounting treatment of a Praxair contract is no longer an area of focus for the current year as the determination of the accounting treatment was a once-off and was considered to be appropriate in the prior year.
What we reported to Area of focus Our audit approach the Audit Committee Goodwill and non-current asset impairment Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 110, the estimates and judgments on page 158 to 162. and the disclosures of impairment in note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2016 the carrying value of goodwill was We performed audit procedures on all impairment models relating to material cash We consider the US$880 million 2015: US$1,176 million.
Our audit procedures were performed mainly by the Group audit managements estimates recognised impairment charges in respect of goodwill, team with the exception of certain location specific inputs to managements models to be reasonable for other intangible assets and items of PP&E during the which were assessed by the component teams.
the current year with year of US$465 million 2015: US$441 million.
assumptions within Our audit procedures included the evaluation of managements assumptions used in an acceptable range.
In accordance with IAS 36 management disclosed that, their impairment models.
The assumptions to which the models were most sensitive Management has also in addition to the impairment charge already recognised, and most likely to lead to further impairments were: reflected known changes a reasonably possible change in discount rates, sales Decreases in steel prices: in the circumstances of prices, sales volumes and cost control measures, could Increases in production costs: and each CGU in its forecasts lead to impairments in other CGUs where no impairment Discount rates.
We corroborated managements assumptions with reference to historical data and, We concluded that the We focused on this area due to the significance of the where applicable, external benchmarks.
related disclosures carrying value of the assets being assessed, the number provided in the We tested the integrity of models with the assistance of our own specialists and and size of recent impairments, the current economic Consolidated Financial carried out audit procedures on managements sensitivity calculations.
environment in the Groups operating jurisdictions and Statements are because the assessment of the recoverable amount of We assessed the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts, and appropriate.
the Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs involves sought appropriate evidence for any anticipated improvements in major assumptions significant judgements about the future results of the We are satisfied that such as production volumes or cost reductions.
We corroborated previous forecasts business and the discount rates applied to future cash the Groups CGUs meet with actual data.
the definition of IAS 36 We tested the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in the and are appropriately In particular we focused our effort on those CGUs Consolidated Financial Statements.
In particular we tested the completeness of disclosed in the Financial with the largest carrying values, those for which an the disclosures regarding those CGUs with material goodwill balances and where a Statements.
impairment had been recognised in the year and those reasonably possible change in certain variables could lead to impairment charges.
We assessed whether the revised CGUs for North America are consistent with IAS This year we performed a detailed evaluation of 36 and the actual business operations, and challenged the extent and nature of managements reassessment of CGUs for EVRAZ Inc underlying changes driving the reassessment.
NA and EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada.
The CGUs for North America have been restructured to reflect changes in the business and cash flow interdependence.
com 139 What we reported to Area of focus Our audit approach the Audit Committee Going concern Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 110, the Directors report on page 130 and within significant accounting policies on page 155 of the Consolidated Financial Statements The Group is highly geared net debt at 31 December Since managements going concern model and analysis are prepared centrally, audit Based on audit 2016 US$4,802 million, 2015 US$5,349 million, has procedures on this area were performed directly by the Group audit team.
Covenant procedures performed regular debt repayments and a number of restrictive compliance testing was split between the Group and component teams as appropriate.
we agree with the covenants over a proportion of its debt.
conclusion reached by We discussed the detailed cash flow forecasts prepared by management in their management that there Management and the Board prepare a cash flow model.
The main procedures performed on the models and areas where we is no material uncertainty forecast and undertake sensitivity analysis Base and challenged management were as follows: in relation to the going Pessimistic cases of the key assumptions to verify that We have tested the quality of management forecasting by comparing cash flow concern assumption for the Group can operate as a going concern for at least forecasts for prior periods to actual outcomes: the preparation of the 12 months from the date the financial statements are We verified the consistency of forecasts used in the going concern assessment financial statements.
with those used for impairment calculations: We tested the appropriateness of the assumptions that had the most material During 2016 management negotiated covenant holidays for the periods ranging from 31 December impact.
In challenging these assumptions we took account of actual results, 2017 to 30 June 2018 for the loan balances that external data and market conditions: were subject to financial maintenance covenants.
We tested the arithmetic integrity of the calculations including those related to Furthermore, actual Group EBITDA for 2016 as well managements sensitivities: as forecast Group EBITDA for are higher than the We also performed our own sensitivity calculations to test the adequacy of the respective figures in the previous year.
We therefore available headroom and, in particular, covenant compliance: and consider the level of risk in relation to Going Concern to We agreed the sources of liquidity and uses of funds to supporting documentation.
We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of going concern.
Completeness of related party transactions Risk direction: Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 110 and note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements At the end of 2015, management discovered historic At both a component team and group level, we have understood and tested Based on our procedures transactions with a company controlled by a key managements process for identifying related parties and recording related party performed we consider management person had been erroneously omitted from transactions.
We have tested managements controls in relation to the assessment the related party the prior years disclosures of related party transactions and approval of related party transactions.
disclosure provided in the in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated Financial We assessed managements evaluation that the transactions are on an arms Statements not to be Although the error itself was not material, given regulatory length basis by reviewing a sample of agreements and comparing the related party materially misstated.
and investor interest in this area coupled with the risk transaction price to those quoted by comparable unrelated companies.
that this might not be an isolated incident, we considered Across the Russian components we obtained an understanding of unusual or high our audit risk had increased.
We therefore reassessed value transactions with unknown counterparties.
the risk of completeness of related party transactions as significant and adapted our audit strategy accordingly.
We randomly selected a sample of key management personnel and ran a search for any companies controlled by those individuals the search was performed via We consider the increased risk to be limited to the Russian an independent register of all companies based in the CIS and their directors entities within the Group where external business interests, or shareholders.
We compared the results of the research made with the list especially in relation to local product suppliers, are more of entities included in related party listing provided to us by management and common amongst members of key management.
investigated the differences between the listings.
Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
Materiality Performance materiality Reporting threshold US$41.0 million US$20.5million US$2.1 million 140 Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $41.0 million 2015: $37.8 million, which is set at 2.7% 2015: 2.7% of adjusted EBITDA.
We adjusted EBITDA to include social and charitable expenditure, which is excluded from the Groups reported EBITDA.
These expenses have been included in our calculation for materiality purposes because these are costs that are incurred every year.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
With respect to disclosure and presentational matters, amounts in excess of the quantitative thresholds above may not be adjusted if their effect is not considered to be material on a qualitative basis.
How we determined materiality: EBITDA of US$1,542 million as included in the Consolidated Financial Statements Starting basis Inclusion of social expenses of US$23 milllion to determine adjusted EBITDA Adjustment Take 2.7% of the adjusted EBITDA Materiality Rationale for basis We have used an earnings based measure as our basis of materiality.
It was considered inappropriate to calculate materiality using Group profit or loss before tax due to the historic volatility of this metric.
EBITDA is a key performance indicator for the Group and is also a key metric used by the Group in the assessment of the performance of management.
We also noted that market and analyst commentary on the performance of the Group uses EBITDA as a key metric.
We therefore, considered EBITDA, adjusted for social and charitable expenditure, to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered that to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that given the number and monetary amounts of individual misstatements corrected and uncorrected identified in prior periods as well as the nature of the misstatements, overall performance materiality for the Group should be 50% 2015: 50% of materiality, namely $20.5 million 2015: $18.9 million.
Audit work on individual components is undertaken using a percentage of our total performance materiality.
This percentage is based on the size of the component relative to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $4.1 million to $13.3 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.1million 2015: $1.9 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
com 141 Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we analyse the implications for our report.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group which, when taken together, enable us to form an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The EVRAZ Group has centralised processes and controls over the key areas of our audit focus with responsibility lying with group management for the majority of estimation processes and significant risk areas.
We have tailored our audit response accordingly and thus for the majority of our focus areas, audit procedures were undertaken directly by the Group audit team with testing undertaken by the Component audit team on the verification of operational data and other routine processes.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts, of the 60 reporting components of the Group we selected 15 components covering entities within Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland, Canada and the USA, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 15 components selected, we performed a full scope audit of five components full scope components, which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining ten selected components specific scope components we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within the component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The extent of our audit work on the specific scope accounts was similar to that for a full scope audit.
The 15 reporting components where we performed full or specific scope procedures accounted for 78% 2015: 77% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 93% 2015: 92% of the Groups revenue and 86% 2015: 86% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 60% 2015: 60% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 76% 2015: 74% of the Groups revenue and 57% 2015: 57% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 19% 2015: 17% of the Group adjusted EBITDA, 18% 2015: 18% of the Groups revenue and 29% 2015: 29% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
A further breakdown of the size of these components compared to key metrics of the Group is provided below.
1 EBITDA Revenue Total assets % % % Full 60 Full 76 Full 57 Specific 19 Specific 18 Specific 29 21 6 14 Other Other Other 1 The percentage of the Groups adjusted EBITDA attributable to full and specific scope entities is lower than the revenue metric because some of the full and specific scope entities contribute to the Groups revenue but individually have a negative adjusted EBITDA.
142 Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 For the remaining 45 components of the Group with no individual component greater than 3% of EBITDA or 1% of Revenue, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, review of internal audit reports, testing of consolidation journals, and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential significant risks of material misstatement to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Changes from the prior year Our scope allocation in the current year is broadly consistent with 2015 in terms of overall coverage of the Group and the number of full and specific scope entities.
Integrated team structure The overall audit strategy is determined by the senior statutory auditor, Steven Dobson.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK but, since Group management and many operations reside in Russia, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and Russia.
The senior statutory auditor visited Russia five times during the current years audit and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the audit process.
Whilst in Russia, he focused his time on the significant risks and judgemental areas of the audit.
He attended managements going concern, impairment and significant estimates and judgements presentations to the Audit Committee.
During the current years audit he reviewed key working papers and met, or held conference calls, with representatives of the component audit team for all Russian based full scope components including internal valuation specialists used in the audit to discuss the audit approach and issues arising from their work.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit team or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the five full scope components, audit procedures were performed on all of these by the relevant component audit team.
Of the 10 specific scope components selected, audit procedures were performed on five of these directly by the Group audit team.
For the components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to component teams in Russia and the USA.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work.
The Group audit team participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specific scope locations.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 135, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com 143 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 104 to 119 in the annual report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures and in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority: is consistent with the Financial Statements: and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirement: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, rules 7.2.
7 in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees have been complied with if applicable.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the We have annual report is: no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Consolidated financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement included on page 135 of the Annual Report that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained We have in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report, no exceptions to report.
Directors Report or Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 8-37, 130-135, 104-119 of the Annual Report at http: www.
com We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 131, and longer-term viability, set out on page 36: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review 144 Independent Auditors Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Steven Dobson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 February 2017 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the EVRAZ plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
