108 Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Experian plcs Group and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows and the Companys loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2016: the Group income statement, Company profit and loss account and Group and Company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in total equity and Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced disclosure framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: US$51m which represents 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
We conducted work on three full scope reporting units.
Materiality These three reporting units, together with the corporate function and consolidation at the Group level, where we also conduct audit procedures, accounted for 88% of the Groups revenue and 97% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We focused on: Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning.
Areas of focus Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment in respect of the Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA and Asia Pacific cash generating units CGUs.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Financial statements Independent auditors report 109 The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Tax uncertain tax positions and tax planning In conjunction with our UK and international tax specialists, we Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 4, 5 and evaluated and challenged managements judgments in respect 15 to the Group financial statements.
of estimates of tax exposures in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
In understanding and evaluating The Group operates in a number of territories and recognises managements judgments, we considered the most recent tax based on the interpretation of local laws and regulations correspondence with the relevant revenue services, judgmental which are sometimes uncertain.
positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and The directors are required to exercise significant judgments in developments in the tax environment.
We made an assessment determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of of whether management has taken an appropriate position in potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
The most light of the tax authoritys arguments and the relevant law, and significant of these relate to Brazil, the USA and the UK.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
Regulatory matters and litigation Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 5 and 40 Open legal cases were discussed with Experians in-house legal to the Group financial statements.
counsel, Global Compliance team and, where appropriate, the Groups external legal advisers and appropriate documentation The consumer data industry continues to have increasing considered to understand the legal position and the basis of regulation in key markets across the world.
The Group operates material risk positions.
in an increasingly scrutinised regulatory environment, including regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB We also obtained external confirmations from legal counsel on in the USA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the UK.
The regulatory regime in these countries increases the risk that In relation to the North America security incident, in addition to violations may result in penalties.
The Group is also subject to assessing the status and likely outcome of legal claims arising increased levels of consumer claims, especially in Brazil relating from the incident, we considered the nature and completeness to the disclosure and use of credit scores.
of the costs recorded by the Group in relation to the incident In addition, the Group is subject to new actions and and evaluated the appropriateness of the associated accounting proceedings resulting from the North America security treatments adopted and disclosures.
We also considered external incident in September 2015. information sources to identify potential legal actions and regulatory findings and no further matters were identified.
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is uncertain and the positions taken by the directors are based on We found that in the context of the Group financial statements the application of material judgment and estimation about the taken as a whole the judgments made by the directors were likelihood and magnitude of any potential penalties and claims, reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these including judgment involved in whether to make additional contingent liabilities are appropriate.
We obtained the Groups impairment analyses and tested the Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment reasonableness of key assumptions including long-term growth rates assessment in respect of EMEA and Asia Pacific CGUs and short-term forecast profit margins for the EMEA and Asia Pacific Refer also to the Audit Committee report and notes 4, 5, 19 CGUs.
We assessed the assumptions against managements record and 20 to the financial statements.
of historical forecasting accuracy and evaluated the methodology The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets at used to allocate central overhead costs to individual CGUs within 31 March 2016 is US$5,629m.
Of this, US$5,123m relates to the impairment models.
We tested the mathematical integrity of the CGUs where there is substantial headroom between value-in-use forecasts and carrying values in managements impairment model.
calculations and the carrying value of net assets.
We used valuations specialists to assess the discount rate for each The estimated recoverable amount of the EMEA US$247m CGU by comparison to third party information, past performance, goodwill and other intangible assets and Asia Pacific US$163m the Groups cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
goodwill and other intangible assets CGUs shows there is low We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity analyses headroom and some risk of impairment if growth assumptions to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in and forecasted improvement in margin are not achieved.
assumptions and we performed our own sensitivity calculations to The recoverable amount of goodwill and other intangible assets quantify the downside changes to managements models required is contingent on future cash flows and there is a risk that, to result in impairment, focusing in particular on EMEA and Asia if these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations, the Pacific where the headroom is lower than the other CGUs.
We determined the change in those assumptions that either The impairment reviews performed by management contain a individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and number of assumptions that are subject to significant judgments other intangible assets to be impaired.
We then considered the and estimates including revenue growth, profit margins and likelihood of such movements in key assumptions occurring and discount rates.
determined that these sat outside of the range of what we would consider to be realistically possible outcomes.
We consider that the disclosures highlight the key sensitivities used by management in its sensitivity analysis.
110 Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Group and Company financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into five geographical regions, being North America, Latin America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Each region comprises a number of reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
We identified three reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size or risk characteristics.
These reporting units are all the significant businesses within the North America region, Serasa S. A. in the Latin American region and Experian Limited in the UK and Ireland region.
The three reporting units, together with the corporate function and consolidation at the Group level, where we also conducted audit procedures, accounted for 88% of Group revenue and 97% of Group profit before tax.
In the current year, the Group engagement team visited two of the three component audit teams and these visits involved discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from the work, as well as meeting local management.
In addition to this, the Group team attended all clearance meetings either in person or by call.
This, together with additional procedures performed at a Group level, including procedures covering consolidation, financial statement disclosures, financial instruments, impairment, pensions, litigation and share incentive plans, gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality US$51m 2015: US$50m.
How we determined it 5% of the Groups profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that the Groups profit before tax provided us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and it represents the generally accepted auditing practice benchmark for such businesses.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between US$12m and US$48m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above US$5m 2015: US$5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern The directors have complied with provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the Directors report.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Financial statements Independent auditors report 111 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the Code, that We have no exceptions to report.
they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the We have no exceptions to report.
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the Corporate governance report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation in the Viability statement, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and we have also reviewed the statement that the directors have made in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules of the UK FCA we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten further provisions of the Code.
112 Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Experian plc continued Other voluntary reporting Directors remuneration The Company voluntarily prepares a report on directors remuneration in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the report on directors remuneration specified by the UK Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the Company were a UK registered company.
In our opinion, the part of the report on directors remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ranjan Sriskandan for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, United Kingdom 10 May 2016
