F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Independent Auditors Report Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our opinion The subsidiaries and the parent company are all domiciled in Guernsey.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of F&C Commercial Key audit matters Property Trust Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group as at 31 December 2016, and of their consolidated Valuation of Investment Properties financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year Risk of fraud in Revenue Recognition then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and have been Audit scope properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated What we have audited financial statements.
In particular, we considered where management The Groups consolidated financial statements comprise: made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override year then ended: of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of ended: material misstatement due to fraud.
the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then Our understanding of the controls environment was informed by ended: and our review of the controls report available on BMO REP Asset the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include Management plc the property manager as well as our on site visit a summary of significant accounting policies.
to the Dorking office of the property manager, however our approach remained predominately substantive in nature.
The basis for our opinion We engaged the PwC UK Real Estate team to review the valuation We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of investment properties as internal experts.
Their findings are on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are documented in the Key Audit Matter Valuation of Investment further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Properties below.
consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Independence We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Materiality Ethics for Professional Accountants IESBA Code.
We have fulfilled The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code.
An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
Our audit approach Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error.
They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be Overview expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Materiality basis of the consolidated financial statements.
Overall group materiality was 14.1 million which represents 1% Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain of group total assets.
quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole Audit scope as set out in the table below.
These, together with qualitative Group audit scoping was performed based on total assets held considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and within each of the eight components in the group covering 100% the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate of group total assets.
the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types financial statements as a whole.
of Real Estate investments within the Group, the accounting processes and controls.
32 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited AUDITORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT AUDITORS REPORT Overall group materiality 14.1 million We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million, as well How we determined it 1% of Total Assets as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Rationale for the materiality We believe that Total Assets is the benchmark applied primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the Key audit matters performance of the Group.
We did not Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional apply a separate specific materiality judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated to the statement of comprehensive financial statements of the current period.
Our overall materiality was of addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial a level sufficient to address the risk of statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we material misstatement in the statement do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter Objectivity and experience of the Valuer Valuation of Investment Properties The Groups Investment Properties comprise retail, office and We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read industrial portfolios and, at 1.3 billion, represent the majority of their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or the assets as at 31 December 2016.
Please see Note 9 to the may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the Valuer in their The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently performance of the valuations was compromised.
subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its location and the expected future rental income External valuations for that particular property.
We attended the initial valuation meeting between the Valuer The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with and the Investment Manager to observe the process and initial the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual discussions covering key developments in the property portfolio.
property valuation assumptions, when aggregated, could result in Furthermore, we analysed movements between the draft and material misstatement, is why we have given specific audit focus final valuation figures to determine where there was evidence of and attention to this area.
undue influence on the Valuers conclusions for each property.
No The valuations of the Groups property portfolio were carried evidence of management bias was identified.
out by the third party valuer CBRE Limited the Valuer.
The We read the valuation reports for all properties and discussed the Valuer was engaged by the Group, and performed its work reports with the Valuer.
We confirmed that the valuation approach in accordance with the Global RICS Valuation Professional for each property was in accordance with professional valuation Standards January 2014 and the RICS UK valuation standards, standards and suitable for use in determining the fair value of appendices and guidance notes December 2014.
The Valuer Investment Properties at 31 December 2016. used by the Group is a well-known chartered surveyor, with It was evident from our discussions with management and the experience in the markets in which the Group operates Valuer and our work surrounding the valuation reports that close In determining a propertys valuation, the Valuer takes into attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics account property specific current information such as the current and its overall quality, geographic location and marketability as a tenancy agreements and rental income earned by the property.
They then apply assumptions in relation to capitalisation rates and We agreed the property specific information supplied to the Valuers current market rent and growth, based on available market data by the Group to, on a sample basis, to test whether it reflected the and transactions, to arrive at a range of valuation outcomes, from underlying property records held by the Group.
No issues were which they derive a point estimate.
Due to the unique nature of identified.
each property, the assumptions applied take into consideration the individual property characteristics at a tenant level, as well Assumptions as the qualities of the property as a whole.
Comparable market Our work over the assumptions encompassed all properties in the information is available for the Groups properties.
We engaged our own internal valuation expert to critique adopted the assessed values determined by the Valuers.
and challenge the work performed and assumptions used by the Valuer.
In particular, we compared the valuation metrics used by the Valuer to recent market activity.
We challenged management on significant movements in the valuations.
Due to the subjectivity involved in determining valuations for individual properties and the existence of alternative assumptions and valuation methods, we determined a range of values that were considered reasonable to evaluate the independent property valuations used by management.
We determined that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 33 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Substantive testing Risk of Fraud in Revenue Recognition There exists a risk that management may be incentivised to We obtained a sample of lease agreements and checked that the manipulate reported revenue in order to artificially overstate the associated revenue recognised in the financial statements was perceived yield of the Group to investors.
This risk is increased in consistent with the contractual terms therein.
An assessment market traded companies due to market pressure to deliver results in was performed of the accuracy of rent straight-lining calculations line with market expectations.
resulting from rent free periods and other lease incentives.
There is a large number of individual lease agreements held by the We selected a sample of turnover leases and checked the Group with diverse lease terms.
This creates a level of inherent mathematical accuracy of the rental calculation.
We also agreed the complexity in the calculation of lease incentives which may increase tenant turnover to independently audited financial information.
the opportunity for a fraud to be committed.
We tested manual journal entries made in the preparation of the The lease population also includes a number of turnover leases financial statements at year end and manual journals to revenue which incorporate a higher level of subjectivity in the calculation of nominal accounts throughout the year by agreeing them to rental income.
supporting to documentation to check the accuracy and validity of the journal entry.
The Group utilises an administrator, which is under common control with the Investment Manager, and hence this implies reduced Our work did not indicate the existence of management bias of inherent segregation within the structure, increasing the opportunity material misstatement due to fraud.
for fraud to occur at the property manager and financial reporting level through the posting of manual journal entries.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the Company summary, the Financial Highlights, the Performance Summary, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Model and Strategy, the Viability Assessment and Statement, the Managers Review, the Property Portfolio, the Board of Directors, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Directors Responsibilities the Shareholder Information, the Historic Record, the Alternative Performance Measures, the Glossary of Terms, How to Invest and the Corporate Information but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Other than as specified in our report, our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of directors for the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, the requirements of Guernsey law and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
34 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited AUDITORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT AUDITORS REPORT Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: proper accounting records have not been kept: or the consolidated financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have reviewed: the directors statement set out on page 23 in relation to going concern.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern: the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten further provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members as a body in accordance with Section 262 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Evelyn Brady For and on behalf of  CI LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 3 April 2017 Report and Accounts 2015 | Report and Accounts 2016 | 35 35
