FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC We present our audit report on the Group and Company financial statements as defined below of Ferrexpo plc, which comprise the Group primary statements and related notes set out on pages 94 to 149 and the Company primary statements and related notes set out on pages 150 to 161.
Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Ferrexpo plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The Group and Parent Company financial statements of Ferrexpo plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise: Group Parent Company the Consolidated Income Statement the separate Parent Company Statement of Financial Position the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income the separate Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position the separate Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows the related notes 1 to 13 to the financial statements the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity the related notes 1 to 40 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Areas of focus Community support donations Going Concern Impact of Bank F&C liquidation Completeness of related party transactions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific balances, where we consider the risk of material misstatement to be higher, for a further one component.
The seven reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 95% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax and 94% of the Groups revenue.
For the remaining 23 components in the Group we have performed limited procedures appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group which assists us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$12.0 million which represents approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Profit before tax, adjusted for the allowance on the remaining Bank Finance & Credit restricted cash and write-offs and impairment losses, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Our assessment of focus areas We identified the risk and focus areas described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
84 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Community support donations Risk direction Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 57, the Strategic Report on page 43, and the disclosures in note 11 of the Group Financial Statements During the year the value of community Due to the geographical location in which community Based on our procedures support donations has remained significant support expenditure has taken place work on this area undertaken we are satisfied at US$27.5 million for the year ended was undertaken by our Ukrainian component team that the expense is 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 under the direction and supervision of the UK Group appropriately classified in US$25.8 million.
90% was donations to the Blooming Land Charitable Foundation Blooming Land, Our procedures focused on donations made to Blooming a local charity based in Ukraine.
These Land and subsequently paid on to the specific funds.
amounts donated to Blooming Land were passed on to three separate funds called We traced a sample of payment orders confirming money Ukraine Healthy Country Diabetes A to transferred to Blooming Land.
Z, Healthy Sight To see it all and Institute of social programmes Happy old age We reviewed board minutes to ensure that all charity to be used on projects within Ukraine.
donations were subject to appropriate approval in These three separate funds provide accordance with the Groups procedures.
amounts to private individuals acting as project managers who are responsible for We held a meeting with a representative of Blooming Land organising specific events during the year to discuss its community support activities.
We have obtained the financial statements of Blooming The risk to the financial statements is in Land for the year ended 31 December 2016 which have respect of the appropriate classification been subject to Agreed Upon Procedures by a local audit and disclosure of the expenditure.
Our component team in Ukraine held discussions with a representative of the local audit firm.
Given the significant amount of donations, the specific nature of the funds receiving We have received signed confirmations from the donations and the importance of representatives of each of the three specific charity funds transparent reporting of such expenditure, confirming their receipt of funds from Blooming Land and we consider this to be a key area of focus.
that they have spent the funds in accordance with the articles of Blooming Land and also signed Bribery Act compliance forms by representatives of each of these three specific charity funds.
The Compliance forms confirmed that the activities of the charities and use of the funds would not violate any anti-corruption laws applicable to the respective charity or Ferrexpo including the UK Bribery Act.
We obtained a list of the private individuals that receive donations from the funds for the purpose of organising community support events and the amounts provided to each individual.
We undertook a search of publicly available information in respect of these individuals.
We met with three of these private individuals responsible for organising events on behalf of the funds during the year.
We attended one event organised by the Healthy Sight Fund in relation to community education on sight related issues including the provision of an on-site ocular assessment and obtained invoices contracts for the expenditure in relation to this event.
FERREXPO PLC 85 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Going concern Risk direction Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 57 and the Directors Report on page 81 The Directors of the Group are required to Since managements going concern model and analysis Based on our work on the make a rigorous assessment of whether are prepared centrally, audit procedures on this area were going concern analysis the Group will remain a going concern for performed directly by the Group team.
prepared by management, a period of at least twelve months from the we agree that no material date of approval of the financial statements We challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions in uncertainty in relation to the and assess whether there are any material the going concern model, in particular the iron ore price, going concern assumption uncertainties in relation to the going pellet premium, C1 costs and foreign exchange rates.
In for the preparation of the concern basis of preparation.
challenging these assumptions we took account of actual financial statements is results, external data and market conditions.
required and managements In the prior year the Company recognised disclosure in the Directors a material uncertainty in respect of going We tested the arithmetic integrity of the calculations Report is appropriate.
The Groups realised prices for including those related to managements sensitivities.
We pellet sales have improved since November, also performed our own sensitivity calculations to test the and actual and forecasted cash flow adequacy of the available headroom and we considered generation has also strengthened.
We the mitigating actions available to management under therefore consider the level of risk in relation thesescenarios.
to Going Concern to have decreased.
We have tested the quality of management forecasting by comparing EBITDA forecasts for prior periods to actualoutcomes: We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group financial statements in respect of goingconcern.
86 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Impact of Bank F&C liquidation Risk direction Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 57 and the disclosures of in Notes 29, 35 and 39 of the Group Financial Statements Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C entered A.
We have made enquiries of the Groups external legal We are satisfied with the administration in 2015 with a total exposure counsel and obtained a legal letter to confirm the status disclosures in the financial at 31 December 2016 exchange rates of of the Groups legal disputes.
We have discussed with statements in respect of the US$156.9 million.
management their view at the balance sheet date of the Bank F&C issue, in particular recoverability of this amount given the outcome of legal the judgements made in The three areas of focus relevant for the proceedings during the year.
respect of the provision for year were as follows: the US$8.5 million claim and A.
An additional allowance for US$8.5m B.
We considered managements judgement in respect the recognition of a deferred was recorded in the current year in of the deferred tax on the Bank F&C losses, and the tax asset relating to the respect of amounts which are being clarification of changes in Ukrainian tax legislation.
We allowance for the entire pursued through the court system.
have discussed this judgement with management and balance held by Bank F&C.
the Audit Committee to understand their conclusions.
Management continue to recognise the Based on the procedures deferred tax asset on the Bank F&C We have performed audit procedures on managements performed no evidence allowance for the future tax impact of taxation workings and validated their key assumptions.
came to our attention that the Bank F&C being formally liquidated valid guarantees had been on the basis of their judgement on Utilising our local tax experts, we have assessed issued by the company of the deductibility of the amount for whether the allowance is deductible for tax purposes the manner alleged in the tax purposes and the likelihood of and the recognition of a deferred tax asset is court proceedings and the subsequent utilisation of the appropriate.
therefore we are satisfied deduction.
Should these judgements be that no accounting incorrect there is a risk of misstatement In order to ascertain whether FPM will generate suitable consequences should have of assets included in the Group taxable profits in the future to utilise the asset, we been reflected in the financialstatements.
reviewed profit forecasts ensuring consistency with financial statements and the models used for other accounting purposes.
C. In April 2016, the Ukrainian subsidiaries of the Group received certificates C. We have made enquiries of management and reviewed issued by the liquidator of Bank F&C board minutes at both operating company and group recognising only UAH540 million of their level for any indication of guarantees being issued claims totalling UAH4,262 million.
We have confirmed the terms of the claims made by FBM have gone through required authority for the issuance of guarantees and court proceedings and court records obtained representation from management that no valid relating to the proceedings allege that guarantees were issued.
guarantees were made by the Group to the Bank F&C in respect of other creditors.
Had such guarantees been issued there would be accounting or disclosure implications.
FERREXPO PLC 87 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Completeness of related party transactions Risk direction Refer to the Group Audit Committee report on page 57 and the disclosures of related party transactions in note 39 of the Group Financial Statements The completeness of related party In addressing this area of focus, audit procedures on the Based on the completion transactions is a key area of focus due completeness of related party transactions were performed of the procedures performed to the high volume and nature of such by component teams in Ukraine and Switzerland and the we are satisfied that the transactions that the Group enters into.
related party transactions There is a risk of undisclosed related party and balances are transactions as well as the risk that these We understood and documented managements process appropriately disclosed in transactions are not transacted on an arms for identifying related parties and recording related the financial statements in length basis when disclosed as such.
compliance with the relevant accounting standards.
We have assessed managements controls in relation to the assessment and approval of related party transactions and substantiated managements disclosures in respect of thetransactions.
We assessed managements evaluation that the transactions are at an arms length basis by reviewing a sample of tender documentation and comparing the related party transaction price to those quoted by comparablecompanies.
We have reviewed significant agreements during the year, including agreements with related parties, and through corroboration of our review of the minutes of meeting of the Board of Directors, we have confirmed that there are no transactions arrangements outside the normal course ofbusiness.
We investigated significant new counterparties for evidence of relationships with the entity noting no material issues.
Throughout the performance of our audit we remained alert for any evidence of related party transactions that had not been disclosed.
Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the Groups business and impacting the Group financial statements.
The areas of audit focus remain consistent with the 2015 audit but our procedures have changed as these risks have evolved: During 2015 the going concern area of focus included a reference to the compliance with covenant terms, specifically Net Debt to EBITDA ratios.
The Group repaid US$196 million of debt and increased its cash balance by US$110 million in 2016, thereby reducing the gearing of the Groups balance sheet and reduced the risk that covenants will be breached.
The accounting treatment and disclosure of the impact of the liquidation of Bank F&C continues to be relevant to our audit approach but the focus has evolved to consider the impact of the creditor claims process and the existence of any guarantees granted by theGroup.
88 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Our application of materiality The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
M AT ERI A LIT Y PERF ORM A NCE REP OR T ING M AT ERI A LIT Y T HRE SHOLD US$12.0m US$6.0m US$0.6m Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$12.0 million 2015: US$8.0 million, which is approximately 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that adjusted profit before tax provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
There were no changes to our basis of materiality during the year.
How we determined materiality: Pro t before tax of US$231.4 million STARTING BASI S Add back the following non-recurring items: US$8.5 million allowance for restricted cash in Bank F&C ADJUSTMENTS US$2.5 million of impairments and write offs US$242.4 million of adjusted pro t before tax Materiality of US$12.0 milion 5% of adjusted pro t before tax MATERIALIT Y Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality should be 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely US$6.0 million 2015: US$4.0 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the fact that the engagement has been designated as subject to higher risk by our internal risk criteria given the issues surrounding the Directors assessment of going concern brought forward from the prior year.
FERREXPO PLC 89 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$0.6 million to US$6.0 million 2015: US$0.4 million to US$4.0 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.6 million 2015: US$0.4 million, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The scope of our audit Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the consolidated and parent Company financial statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We take into account the size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group has centralised processes and controls over the key areas of our audit focus with responsibility lying with Group management for the majority of judgemental processes and significant risk areas.
For going concern, the majority of the audit work is performed by the Group team.
However in respect of the other areas of focus, the substantive audit work is performed by the component teams under the direction and supervision of the Group team.
Responsibility for focus areas was split across the relevant components in Ukraine, Switzerland and the UK with the Primary Team maintaining an appropriate level of involvement throughout the audit cycle.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts, we selected seven out of 30 components covering entities within Ukraine, Switzerland and the UK, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the seven components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components in Ukraine, Switzerland and the UK, which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining one selected component specific scope component in Ukraine, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 95% 2015: 92% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax, and 94% 2015: 94% of the Groups revenue.
Only balance sheet items were subject to specific scope procedures for the specific scope component and therefore this component does not contribute to the coverage of adjusted profit before tax or revenue.
The audit scope of this component may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Of the remaining 23 components that together represent 5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
90 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 A R d j e u v s t e e n d u P e B. T. 9... 4.
The chart below illustrates the coverage obtained during the year from the work performed by our audit teams.
5% 6% Full Other 94 % 95 % Changes from the prior year Our scoping allocation in the current year is broadly consistent with 2015 in terms of overall coverage of the Group and the number of in scope entities.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 7 full and specific scope components, audit procedures were performed on 2 of these directly by the primary audit team, and for the remaining 5 entities were performed by our component teams in Kiev and Zurich.
Where the work was performed by the component auditor, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group team to component teams in Ukraine and Switzerland.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at a Group level, gave us appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: FERREXPO PLC 91 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have no ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial exceptions to report.
Ireland reporting information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no 2006 reporting obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the exceptions to report.
Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 81, and exceptions to report.
requirements longer-term viability, set out on page 36: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
92 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity We have nothing ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to Ireland reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
KEN WILLIAMSON SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, STATUTORY AUDITOR London 21 March 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Ferrexpo plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
FERREXPO PLC 93 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
