Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Our opinion on the Financial Statements What we have audited In our opinion the Financial Statements: We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit for the year then The Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2016: ended: The Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended have been properly prepared in accordance with United 31December 2016: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including The Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: and FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and The related notes 1 to 19 to the Financial Statements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the Companies Act 2006. preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall materiality is 8.7m which represents 1% of Net Asset.
Audit scope We performed the audit of the financial statements at Fidelity Investments Limited to which the Board has delegated the provision of company secretarial and administration services: Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company: and All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Risks of material Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition misstatement Valuation and existence of listed investments and derivatives Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Financial Statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
34 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page identi ed no issues with the Walked through the revenue recognition process 33 : Accounting policies page 43 : and Note 3 of accuracy or completeness of to obtain an understanding of the design of the the Financial Statements page 45. income receipts.
controls: The Company has reported income of 27.0m We concur with the Agreed a sample of dividends to the 2015: 23.0m.
accounting classi cation corresponding announcement made by the adopted for material special Overstatement of revenue often results from investee company and agreed cash received to dividends as revenue or fraudulent financial reporting and management bank statements: capital.
The investment income Agreed, for a sample of investee companies, receivable by the Company during the period Based on our work the dividend announcements made by the directly a ects the Companys ability to pay a performed, we have no investee company from an external third party dividend to shareholders.
There is also a manual matters to report to the Audit source to the income entitlements recorded by and judgemental element in allocating special Committee.
the Company: dividends between revenue and capital.
Given this, Agreed material accrued dividends to an we considered there to be a potential fraud risk, in external pricing source and to post year end accordance with Auditing Standards, in this area of bank statement to assess the recoverability of our audit.
these amounts: Considered the recognition criteria applied to the special dividends received during the year and assessed the allocation between revenue and capital as documented by the Manager: For all samples selected, we tested the exchange rate used to translate the dividend income received in foreign currency to an independent source: and Performed a review of revenue related journal entries, focusing in particular on journals posted around the year end date and raised in the processing and recording of special dividends.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 35 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Valuation and existence of listed investments We performed the following procedures: The results of our and derivatives procedures identi ed no Walked through the investments valuation Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page material error in the value, process to obtain an understanding of the 33 : Accounting policies page 44 : and Notes existence and ownership design of the controls: 10 and 11 of the Financial Statements pages 49 of listed investments and Independently valued 100% of the listed and 50. derivatives investments and derivatives prices in the The valuation of the investments held at fair value Based on our work portfolio using our bespoke asset pricing tool: through pro t and loss and derivative instruments performed, we have no For those investments priced in currencies at 31 December 2016 was 862.2m 2015: matters to report to the other than sterling we have tested the 746.6m comprising 862.7m 2015: 746.6m Audit Committee.
exchange rates to an independent source: of investments and 0.6 m 2015: 0.02 m of and derivatives.
Agreed 100% of the holdings in the investment The investment portfolio is focused on listed portfolio and derivatives to third party investments and derivatives.
con rmations received from the Custodian The valuation of the assets held in the investment and Brokers.
portfolio is the key driver of the Companys net asset and total return.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain proper legal title of the assets held by the Company could have a signi cant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
Materiality 8.7m Basis 1% of Net Asset Rationale We applied this basis as it is a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
Performance materiality for the Financial 4.4m Statements as a whole Speci c performance materiality for the income 1.0m statement column Reporting Threshold 0.4m 36 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Our application of materiality to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Statements and to identify any information that is apparently or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or of our audit procedures.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.7m, which is 1% of the Companys Net Asset.
We believe that Net Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Asset provides the most important financial metric on which As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors shareholders would judge the performance of the Company and Responsibilities set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible it is a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being audits.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in Performance materiality accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply The application of materiality at the individual account or balance with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected This report is made solely to the Companys Members, as a misstatements exceeds materiality.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment state to the Companys members those matters we are required of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
that performance materiality was 50% of materiality, namely 4.4m.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have opted for 50% of materiality as it is a first year audit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Given the importance of the revenue capital distinction for the or for the opinions we have formed.
Company, we also applied a lesser testing threshold of 1.0m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of profit Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies before taxation.
Act2006 Reporting threshold In our opinion: An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be being clearly trivial.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Companies Act 2006: and them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The inf ormation given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light Statements: and of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The St rategic Report and the Directors Report have been The scope of our audit prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 37 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception International Standards on Auditing We are required to report to you if, in our We have no exceptions UK and Ireland reporting opinion, financial and nonfinancial information toreport.
in the annual report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of We have no exceptions the Company and its environment obtained in toreport.
the course of the audit, we have identi ed no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
38 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions toreport.
The Directors Statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 21, and longerterm viability, set out on page 11: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity International Standards on Auditing We are required to give a statement as to whether We have nothing material to UK and Ireland reporting we have anything material to add or to draw add or to draw attention to.
attention to in relation to: The Directors con rmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The Directors statement in the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and The Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 14 March 2017 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the Fidelity International web site is the responsibility of Fidelity International: the work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 39 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
