Fidessa group plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only Opinion and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2016 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatements, in decreasing order of audit significance, that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2015 : 1 Revenue recognition 331.9. million 2015: 295.5m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2d and notes to the consolidated financial statements note 4a.
The risk The group provides its products and services to customers in bundled packages.
These packages may contain two or more of the following elements: software rental, consultancy services including those required to deploy the groups software, market data charges and connectivity services.
The timing of when revenue should be recognised on different elements of a bundled package can require significant judgement, particularly when there is a significant deployment phase.
Consultancy services, particularly deployment activities, may be provided on a fixed price basis and such services are recognised based on the percentage of completion POC.
Determining the POC of the contract, which may include making estimates of cost contingencies, requires significant judgement.
Where the products or services are being deployed at multiple customer sites, judgement is also required to determine whether the group has fulfilled its obligations associated with each element of revenue across the sites.
The allocation of total revenue to the individual elements of the contract and the need to assess the timing of recognition for each element presents a risk of accelerated or delayed recognition of revenue.
1 When the risk significance has increased: Risk vs 2015: When the risk significance has decreased: Risk vs 2015: When the risk significance is unchanged: Risk vs 2015: Fidessa group plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our response Our procedures included: For bundled products, we considered, on a sample basis, whether the fair value attributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable.
For fixed price deployment services which were not completed at the balance sheet date, we assessed the calculation of the stage of completion.
Costs incurred to date primarily include labour costs and our procedures included assessing whether those costs are appropriately allocated to the contracts.
We also challenged the assessment of forecast costs to complete based on our knowledge of the service deliverables and historical accuracy of these forecasts.
Where contingencies were included in the calculation of costs to complete, we inspected and critically assessed the rationale for the basis for their calculation with the directors and project managers who are responsible for delivering the projects.
We also evaluated the historical accuracy of the utilisation of contingencies.
For contracts where software, connectivity and market data revenue has been recognised during the year, our work focused on assessing whether the internal control process regarding approval of contractual terms had been followed.
Our work also focused on assessing whether the group had obtained sufficient evidence, such as through user acceptance, that it has fulfilled the relevant obligations under the deployment phase of the contract.
This included, for a sample of significant contracts, assessing whether the group had obtained appropriate evidence that the relevant deployment services had been completed and that it was therefore appropriate to recognise revenue.
We also performed other substantive, transactional testing and analytical procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as revenue during the period or deferred at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill 44.9 million 2015: 44.9m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and notes to the consolidated financial statements notes 4e and 13.
The risk There is a risk of irrecoverability of goodwill, because of the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which form the basis for the assessment of the goodwill recoverability.
Historical valuations identified that there was significant sensitivity to changes in forecast operating margin and the ability of the buy-side business to achieve its medium-term revenue growth rates.
Our response Our procedures included testing of the forecast cash flows model and assessing the integrity of the model.
We used our own internal valuation specialist to challenge the inputs and methodology used to determine the discount rate in the present value calculation using the cash flow projections, primarily through comparable company analysis.
We considered the historical accuracy of key assumptions used in the model by comparing the previous estimates of revenue and cost growth to the actual amounts achieved.
We challenged the growth assumptions applied to revenue over the next five years of the cash flow model through consideration of both the order book and also committed revenue from existing contracts.
We also performed our own break-even analysis on the assumptions used in the model to assess the need for an impairment charge and considered the likelihood of the assumptions reaching these break-even points.
Our assessment included consideration of the potential risk of bias and consideration of the historical accuracy of the directors forecasts.
We considered whether the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill.
Fidessa group plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only continued Capitalised development costs 48.1 million 2015: 45.2m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2j and notes to the consolidated financial statements notes 4b and 13.
The risk The group capitalises eligible employment costs of its software developers, which are incurred on the development of its software products.
In order to determine the amount of cost that should be capitalised, including the proportion of cost associated with its software developers on both new products and enhancements to the groups existing products, the group must assess whether the cost meets the capitalisation criteria set out in the accounting standards.
Our response Our procedures included evaluating the design and effectiveness of controls in place to separately identify the time on development activities which is categorised as meeting the capitalisation criteria set out by the accounting standards.
On a sample basis, we agreed capitalised amounts to supporting documentation including timesheet data.
We also made enquires of the development board and inspected the minutes of this board throughout the year to support compliance with the relevant accounting standards.
We considered whether any recently launched products or those previously under development had been discontinued or their deployment delayed and, if this had occurred, we evaluated whether any impairment of the capitalised costs was required.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of capitalised development costs.
Income tax expense 13.1 million 2015: 9.6m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committees report, accounting policy note 2h and notes to the consolidated financial statements notes 4c and 9.
The risk Tax provisions require the group to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on due to the group carrying out contracts across a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with tax authorities.
Our response Our procedures included the use of our own tax specialists to assess the accuracy of any provisions for uncertain tax positions.
In making our assessment, we considered correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the tax disclosures including any uncertainties relating to recognised tax liabilities and assets.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0 million 2015: 1.7 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before income tax, of 48.8 million 2015: 39.1 million, of which it represents 4.1% 2015: 4.3%.
Fidessa group plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 0.1 million 2015: 0.1m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups four 2015: four reporting components, we subjected three 2015: three to audits for group reporting purposes.
These were carried out in the UK, North America and Hong Kong components 2015: the same.
The UK audit team performed the work in the UK and North America and the work in Hong Kong was completed by a component auditor.
These procedures covered 91% 2015: 93% of total revenue: 87% 2015: 96% of profit before taxation: and 94% 2015: 93% of total assets.
For the remaining component, a review for group reporting was performed on the operations in Japan by a local review team.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components were all performed to local materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team.
These local materiality levels were set individually for each component and ranged from 0.5 million to 1.5 million 2015: 0.4 million to 1.0 million.
The review work in Japan was completed using a materiality set by the group audit team.
Detailed audit and review instructions were sent to each auditor in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team.
Telephone meetings were held with the auditor in Hong Kong and the team performing the review in Japan.
On these calls the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditors.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited, being the sections entitled Remuneration details and Directors shareholdings, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of going concern and longer-term viability, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31st December 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Fidessa group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc only continued 6 We have nothing to report to you in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committees report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the corporate governance report relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Bennett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 Forest Gate Brighton Road Crawley RH11 9PT 10th February 2017
