Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc Opinion on financial statements of FirstGroup plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groupsprofit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 38, the parent company balance sheet, the parent company statement of changes in equity and the related notes to the parent company balance sheet 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained with the Strategic report on page 46 and Other statutory information on pages 103 to 104 and note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 41.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 58 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 36 to 41 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement within the Strategic report on page 46 and Other statutory information on pages 103 to 104 and note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as agoing concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 155 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of First Student We challenged managements assumptions used in their impairment model goodwill 1,123m in the consolidated balance sheet forgoodwill, specifically including the cash flow projections, discount rates The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and andgrowth rates applied.
intangibles, as described in note 2, involves judgement in Our procedures included: relation to forecasting future cash flows and is sensitive to growth rates and the discount rate applied to the future considering the identification of appropriate cash generating units: cash flows.
The Cash Generating Unit CGU most assessing profit forecast projections with reference to historical trading performance sensitive to variation in these assumptions is the First and profit forecasting accuracy: Student CGU, as described in note 11 to the financial comparing the discount rate applied against a broad comparator group as well as statements, where headroom has decreased from 301m involving our internal valuation specialists to review underlying calculations and assess to 232m as it continues to implement its returns based the key components of the discount rate calculation: strategy while facing certain cost challenges.
comparing the growth rates applied to the long term average growth rate of the relevant Management has highlighted impairments of intangible jurisdiction, as well as comparing historical growth rates to the equivalent measures: assets including goodwill as a key accounting judgement and source of estimation uncertainty in note 2. considering the reasonableness of, and recalculating, the sensitivity assessment applied by management: performing further independent sensitivity analysis on the impairment model: and considering the appropriateness of the disclosure on reasonably possible changes.
The assessment of the valuation and completeness of The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk included: third party claims and associated provisions 408m working with our own actuarial experts to test a range of estimates determined by in the consolidated balance sheet management and their external actuary considering the methodologies employed and The valuation and completeness of both legal and US comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience: self-insurance provisions are a source of estimation independently developed an actuarial calculation and compared the provision recorded uncertainty, as described in note 26, which require to the actuarial range calculated by the external actuary: managements best estimate in assessing the likeliness and valuation of settlement, where applicable, the discount tested a sample of the underlying data used to develop the provision for rate applied to the expected settlement values.
The US completeness and accuracy and challenged the appropriateness of the discount self-insurance claims have decreased in both volume and rate used through comparison to previous years and those used by similar entities: severity during the year, but the claim development has evaluating historical accuracy of claims forecasting to determine the increased.
reasonableness of the provision: and Management has highlighted self-insurance as a key for legal claims, obtaining confirmations from internal and independent external accounting judgement and source of estimation legal counsel.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities 4.0bn in the The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk included: consolidated balance sheet working with our own actuarial experts to test the assumptions used by The Group operates in a labour intensive industry with management in valuing the Groups defined benefit pension scheme liabilities large membership to a number of defined benefit pension suchas the discount rate, inflation and mortality rate: schemes.
The gross pension liabilities, as disclosed in testing the values of the assets in the schemes and the accuracy and note 35, are materially sensitive to changes in the completeness of the member data used by the actuaries in performing their underlying assumptions adopted.
Management exercise assessment of the schemes: significant judgement when determining those assumptions, particularly the discount rate, inflation, and performing sensitivity analysison the key assumptions and comparing them to mortality rates.
During the year the Group has revised the industry benchmarksand the prior years rates adopted: and calculation of the First Rail franchise pension adjustment audited the change in estimate for the calculation of the rail franchise adjustment, under IAS19 Revised to more accurately reflect the confirming its consistency with the principles of IAS19 Revised and market shorter duration and commercial terms of GWR and TPE practice in the sector.
This change in accounting estimate has been triggered by the new direct awards operated by GWR and TPE in the period and has been applied prospectively from 1 April 2015.
Management has highlighted defined benefit pension arrangements as a key accounting judgement and source of estimation uncertainty in note 2.
156 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition including contract accounting To test the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue recognition, our The Group operates a number of long term contracts procedures included: including First Rail franchises and certain North American assessing and challenging the judgements taken by management by reference to the passenger and service contracts.
Management exercise underlying contract terms and applicable accounting standards: and judgement in determining the appropriate timing and challenging the levels of income accrued at the balance sheet date in relation to unbilled valuation of revenue recognised, valuation of associated contract revenue in particular in the North American businesses, and deferred in deferred and accrued income and the evaluation of the relation to ongoing compensation claims in the UK rail businesses.
overall profitability of these contracts.
Management has highlighted contract and franchise accounting as a key accounting judgement and source of estimation uncertainty in note 2.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page67.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8.0m 2015: 7.9m, which is 4.8% 2015: 4.8% of adjusted pre-tax profit as defined on page 118, and below 1% 2015: 1% of equity.
The adjusted pre-tax profit measure has been used to exclude the volatility of non-recurring items.
In addition, the exclusion of amortisation and the income statement effect of ineffective and unhedged financial derivative valuation is consistent with the key measure used by the Group for internal and external reporting purposes.
This measure has been used to facilitate a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 160,000 2015: 158,000 as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the four First Bus operating regions, two significant Train Operating Companies, the operations in North America and the Group, Rail division and Bus division corporate head office functions as well as the UK Shared Service Centre.
These locations were subject to full audit procedures.
First Rail Holdings was subject to specified audit procedures on rail franchise bid costs based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
These locations were subject to full audit procedures and represent the principal business units and account for 89% of the Groups net assets, 99% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at locations subject to full audit procedures was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual location which was lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and a senior member of the Group audit team has visited all locations to review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistentwith the financial statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 157 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches notvisited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 14 June 2016 158 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016
