Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report Opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: Scope of the audit of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and at 31 December 2016 and of the Companys profit for the year disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable then ended: assurance that the financial statements are free from material have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, FRS102 The Financial assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Ireland: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Report and Accounts to identify material What we have audited inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify We have audited the financial statements for Foreign & Colonial any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 which materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the comprise: course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent the Income Statement for the year then ended: material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications the Statement of Changes in Equity: for our report.
the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: and Our assessment of risks of material misstatement the related notes 1 to 27 to the financial statements We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting of the audit team.
From our discussions with the Directors and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,  LLP, we believe that the risks identified including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the are consistent with those identified by  UK and Republic of Ireland.
LLP in the Companys 31 December 2015 Audit Report.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the individual areas.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 44, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
46 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to Valuation of unquoted investments the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: as described by the Audit Committee on page 42 The Company holds unquoted We obtained an understanding of the Companys and PE The results of our investments in Private Equity PE through Managers processes and controls for the valuation of the procedures identified funds or partnerships which are managed unquoted investments by performing walkthrough procedures and no control weaknesses by HarbourVest Partners LLC, Pantheon inspecting the PE Managers internal control reports.
in the Directors Ventures Limited and F&C Investment assessment of fair We obtained an understanding from the Investment Trust Business Limited FCIB together the value of the Companys Accounting team at FCIB of the governance structure and protocols PE Managers.
For the year ended 31 unquoted investments surrounding the valuation process.
December 2016 the PE portfolio totals that might result in a 266.1m which represents 7.7% of the We have evidenced the oversight at Board level through our material misstatement Companys total investment portfolio.
review of minutes, board packs and discussions with the Audit of the unquoted Committee.
The 31 December Net Asset Value NAV of the PE funds is based on estimates We held meetings with HarbourVest and Pantheon to discuss: Based on the work and unaudited NAV statements.
The the annual performance of the funds in which the Company held performed we have no Investment Trust Accounting team at FCIB an investment at 31 December 2016: matters to report.
apply consistent controls to the valuation the reasons for the immaterial variances noted between process which are subject to oversight by estimated and actual NAVs for the year ended 31 December the Board.
2015: and whether, based on any recently available information there are We focus on the valuation of unquoted any adjustments required to the estimated 31 December 2016 investments because there is the risk NAV to the date of our opinion.
that inappropriate judgments made in the assessment of fair value, could materially We compared the Companys valuation methodology to the misstate the value of the investment requirements of United Kingdom Accounting Standards United portfolio in the Balance Sheet, the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS unrealised gains in the income statement 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and and the NAV per share.
There is also the risk that FCIB or the Board As the 31 December 2016 NAVs received are estimated NAVs may influence the unquoted investment we checked for fair value adjustments made to the 30 September valuations in order to meet market 2016 reported NAV reported and corroborated them to supporting expectations of the overall NAV of the documentation to establish the reasonableness of the estimated Company.
We agreed the NAV of the PE funds per the Company to the estimated 31 December 2016 NAV statements which we received directly from the PE Managers.
We performed a back testing exercise comparing the Companys unquoted investment values for HarbourVest and Pantheon managed investments to audited values for the year ended 31 December 2015.
We recalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of unquoted investments impacting the income statement.
We recalculated investments in foreign currencies to gain assurance over the reasonableness of foreign currency rates used and agreed the exchange rates used to third party sources.
We confirmed the total committed capital investments directly to the Limited Partnership Agreements and drawn-down capital notices received from the PE Managers.
To test for the risk of management override we checked for any manual journal entries posted in relation to unquoted investments during the year and confirmed there were none.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 47 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to Recognition of investment income the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: as described by the Audit Committee on page 42 As can be seen in note 3 in the notes to We obtained an understanding of State Street Bank and Trust The results of the financial statements, the Company has Company the Administrator and FCIBs processes and our procedures reported investment income of 70.4m controls for the recognition of investment income by performing identified no issues 2015: 57.4m.
walkthrough procedures and inspecting the Administrators and with the accuracy FCIBs internal control reports and obtaining an understanding or completeness of Investment income is received primarily from FCIB of the governance structure and protocols for oversight income receipts.
in the form of dividends from UK of investment income recognition.
and overseas investments in quoted We concurred with the companies, as well as distributions from We agreed all dividends declared for the ten highest dividend accounting treatment unquoted investments.
Overseas dividends paying securities during the financial year to bank statements adopted for special are recorded gross of withholding tax.
and to an external pricing source to verify occurrence and dividends and also the measurement.
basis of recognition of Distributions from PE funds are recognised income from unquoted when the right to the distribution is For an additional representative sample we: investments.
agreed dividends received from the income report to an Based on the work independent pricing source for occurrence and measurement.
There is a risk of incomplete or inaccurate performed, we have no agreed dividends to bank statements to test the receipt of recognition of income through the failure matters to report.
to recognise proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment We agreed a sample of accrued dividends at the period end to in particular relating to the categorisation post year end bank statements and an external pricing source to of special dividends and journal entries test the income was appropriately recognised in the correct period.
applied to the income account.
We tested all special dividends received during the year to an Special dividends by their nature external source and reviewed their recognition basis to ensure that require the exercise of judgment as to they were appropriately allocated between revenue and capital whether the income receivable should within the income statement.
"be classified as revenue or capital We agreed a sample of the distributions received from the for S1158 Corporation Tax Act 2010 unquoted investments to the notices received from the PE CTA"" purposes."
The revenue column of Managers and to the bank statements to gain assurance over the the income statement is the main driver occurrence, appropriate classification and measurement.
of the minimum dividend calculation.
There is therefore a risk that an incorrect For completeness of income we selected a sample of holdings classification could potentially result in an from the portfolio: we checked whether any dividends had been under distribution of income and put the declared during the period by these holdings and then checked Companys investment trust status at risk.
the dividends had been correctly recorded in the income receipts report.
We additionally checked for securities sold during the year There is also a risk that inappropriate that dividends declared after the sale date were not recognised journal entries applied to the income as revenue.
account could result in a manipulation of the Companys revenue to support To test for the risk of management override we tested a sample performance and dividend targets.
of manual journal entries posted to the income account during the year.
For the samples discussed in the paragraph above we recalculated income received from overseas to gain assurance over the measurement and recognition of income in foreign currencies.
48 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to Valuation and existence of the quoted the Audit Committee investment portfolio We performed the following procedures: as described by the Audit Committee on page 42 The investment portfolio at the year-end We obtained an understanding of FCIBs, the Administrators, the The results of our comprised of quoted equity and fund Custodians and the Depositarys processes and controls for the procedures identified investments 3,433m, 2015:2,934m valuation and existence of the quoted investments by performing no material error page 66. walkthrough procedures and inspecting their internal control in the valuation or reports.
existence of the quoted The Company holds a significant portfolio investments portfolio.
of quoted investments both in the UK and We agreed all of the quoted investment holding prices to an overseas.
Quoted investments are valued independent pricing vendor using our Visual Portfolio team.
We Based on the work at bid value at the close of business on the investigated any pricing variances over 0.75% to a second source performed, we have no relevant date on the exchange on which the to verify the prices.
matters to report investment is listed.
We recalculated the value of quoted investments in foreign There is a risk of incorrect valuation of the currencies to verify the accuracy of the corresponding sterling investment portfolio, including incorrect balances and verified the exchange rates used to an external application of exchange rate movements source.
We reviewed the year end reconciliation of the Companys and assessment of stock liquidity which records to those of the Custodian and the Depositary.
could result in the Balance Sheet and We obtained confirmation from the Custodian and Depositary Income Statement being materially of all securities held at the period end and agreed these to the misstated.
Certificates of investment ownership are held by the JPMorgan Chase the Custodian and not directly by the Company.
JP Morgan Europe Limited the Depositary provides depository services to the Company.
There is a risk of assets being misappropriated and the ownership of investments being unsecured.
Our application of materiality Performance materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the The application of materiality at the individual account audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an and in forming our audit opinion.
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds Materiality materiality.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for that overall performance materiality for the Company should be 75% determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage based on our knowledge of the control We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 30.5m environment and discussion with prior auditor that indicate a lower which is 1% of net assets.
We derived our materiality calculation risk of material misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
from a percentage of the net asset value, as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital judge the performance of the Company.
During the course of for the Company we also apply a separate, lower performance our audit, we re-assessed initial materiality in the context of the materiality of 3.3m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, Companys performance and this resulted in no change from being 5% of the revenue return on ordinary activities before taxation.
our original assessment of materiality.
The predecessor auditor  LLP set their materiality at 27.0m, being 1% of net assets, for the Companys 31 December 2015 audit.
Report and Accounts 2016 | 49 Reporting threshold An overview of the scope of our audit Our reporting threshold is defined as An amount below Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our which identified misstatements are considered as being allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for clearly trivial.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all audit of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and differences in excess of 1.5m as well as differences below that changes in the business environment when assessing the level of threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on pages 28 and 29, and longer-term viability as set out in the Ten Year Horizon on page 15: and: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
50 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in We have nothing relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Julian Young Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2017 Report and Accounts 2016 | 51 Our direct and indirect costs, expressed as the ongoing charge, were 0.79%, down from 0.80% in 2015 52 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
