Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc Overview Report on the financial statements Materiality Our opinion Overall Group materiality: 15 million which represents In our opinion: approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax, being profit before tax after adding back certain non-recurring items.
G4S plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true Audit scope and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Our audit included full scope audits of the Groups seven companys affairs at 31 December 2016 and of the geographical regions.
The regional and corporate head office Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: audits were supported by full scope audits at 130 country the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in components with specified audit procedures performed at a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards further 11 country components.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Taken together, the components at which either full scope the parent company financial statements have been properly audit work or specified audit procedures were performed prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally accounted for 85% of consolidated revenue, 81% of Accepted Accounting Practice: and consolidated profit before tax and 83% of consolidated the financial statements have been prepared in accordance adjusted profit before tax.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Areas of focus regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Onerous contract provisioning Goodwill impairment What we have audited Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets The financial statements, included within the Integrated Report Control environment and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Income statement presentation the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the parent company statement of financial position at We conducted our audit in accordance with International 31 December 2016: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated income statement and consolidated We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective then ended: judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future then ended: events that are inherently uncertain.
Consistent with all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of the parent company statement of changes in equity for the internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence year then ended: and of bias by management that represented a risk of material the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue of significant accounting policies and other recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included explanatory information.
testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial check proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting occurrence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the each year.
The financial reporting framework that has been The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on applied in the preparation of the parent company financial our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures Our audit approach should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all G4S is an integrated security company specialising in the provision risks identified by our audit.
of security and related services to customers in around 100 countries which are organised into seven geographical regions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 103 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Area of focus Onerous contract provisioning Certain of the Groups contracts are onerous and long-term in nature.
These contracts can be complex and incorporate penalty and key performance indicator KPI clauses in the event of non-compliance.
The Group is therefore required to make operational and financial assumptions to estimate future losses over periods that can extend beyond 20 years.
The prediction of future events contains inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement.
Variability of contract penalties, underlying delivery costs and customer disputes can put additional pressure on margins and on future contract profitability, giving rise to onerous contract provisions.
The Groups onerous contract provisions at 31 December 2016 are 69m 2015: 83m.
The income statement charge for onerous contracts in 2016 amounts to 6m.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 33 of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus Our global approach to testing complex contracts starts with an evaluation of managements process to identify and quantify onerous and at-risk contracts.
Management focuses on the top 25 contracts by region and on contracts with margins of less than 3%.
We performed scanning analytics on contract margins and investigated unusual or unexpected trends to check inclusion of all relevant contracts in managements assessment.
Our sampling of contracts focused our testing on higher risk and larger contracts and enabled us to form an independent view as to whether managements process had identified all onerous and at-risk contracts.
For each contract in our sample, we obtained and read the contractual terms and tested that the revenue recognised in the period was in accordance with the contractual terms and was supported by evidence of service delivery.
We read and understood the contract penalty clauses and evaluated the completeness of penalties through discussions with contract managers and reading minutes of meetings between G4S and the customer and customer correspondence.
We assessed each of the key assumptions used in managements forecasts to identify and quantify onerous contract provisions.
Where possible, we obtained third party evidence to corroborate managements assumptions and assessed the appropriateness of the Groups forecasts based on past performance.
The Groups policy is to include the benefits of performance improvement plans only where there is evidence of plans being achievable.
We critically challenged these benefits based on observable benefits achieved to date and the extent to which these plans are within the Groups direct control.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the obligation and checked that the rate appropriately reflected the risk in the underlying cash flows.
We also assessed the recoverability of dedicated contract assets where the contract was identified as onerous.
We are satisfied that assets directly attributable to delivering onerous contracts have been appropriately impaired at 31 December 2016.
Having examined managements analysis, our procedures focused on the Facilities Management and Care & Justice businesses in the UK and specifically on the Compass contract and on a legacy PFI contract which are both long-term in nature, sensitive to changes in assumptions and have given rise to changes in provisioning levels at year-end.
For these contracts, we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis and we have undertaken additional analysis on key assumptions to which managements provisioning judgements are more sensitive.
We also held discussions with in-house and external legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to evaluate contractual claims and disputes with customers and sub-contractors and to assess any issues with the interpretation of contracts.
From the evidence obtained, we did not identify any incremental onerous contracts over and above the arrangements identified by managements own procedures.
We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
We are satisfied with the Groups related disclosures of these onerous contracts in light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgements made.
Goodwill impairment The Group has 1.99bn of goodwill at 31 December 2016 2015: 1.83bn.
During the year, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 9m 2015: 66m relating to a business classified by management as portfolio and identified for closure.
Management determines the recoverable amount of a CGU as the higher of value in use VIU or fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD for continuing operations.
For portfolio businesses where management is committed to either sell or exit the business, a market valuation or market participant cash flows are used.
The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future cash flows and there is risk if these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations that the assets will be impaired.
The impairment reviews performed by the Group contain a number of significant judgements and estimates including revenue growth, profit margins, cash conversion and long-term growth and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the headroom available in the impairment calculations.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 18 of the Group financial statements.
104 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Financial report How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the mathematical accuracy of managements cash flow model and agreed the underlying forecasts to board approved budgets and assessed how these budgets were compiled.
With the support of our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rates and discount rates applied by management to third party information and confirmed they fell within a reasonable range of external market data.
Where they did not, we applied our independent view of a more appropriate rate to managements forecast.
We considered the reliability of managements forecasting for revenue, profit and cash conversion by comparing budgeted results to actual performance over a period of three years, which we considered appropriate.
Where we identified significant shortfalls against budget in prior years, this informed our determination of sensitivities to apply as we formed our independent view about reasonable downside scenarios.
Where the recoverable amount has been assessed with reference to a valuation multiple, including for portfolio businesses, we assessed the appropriateness of the multiple by comparison to recent business disposals and to other third party information.
With the support of our valuations experts, these multiples were found to be within a reasonable range.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering historical performance, forecasting accuracy and modelled headroom to highlight the CGUs with either a lower headroom or which are more sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
We also considered the valuation multiple implied by managements estimate.
For those CGUs with low headroom, we performed our own sensitivity analysis to understand the impact of changes in the assumptions on the available headroom.
We critically assessed managements forecast by comparing growth forecast to actual growth to date and to IMF projections.
The recoverable amount of a number of CGUs including South Africa Cash, Brazil Secure Solutions and UK Cash Solutions were found to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and we satisfied ourselves that this risk is appropriately highlighted in the disclosures in note 18.
As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of the impairment recognised in 2016 was appropriate and that adequate disclosure has been made.
Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to a range of tax risks during the normal course of business including transaction related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the future liability.
At 31 December 2016, the Group has recognised provisions of 37m related to uncertain tax positions 2015: 16m.
In addition, the Group has recognised 285m of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2016 2015: 187m.
The recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgement by management regarding the likelihood of the realisation of these assets.
The expectation that these assets will be realised is dependent on a number of factors, including whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support utilisation of these assets.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to notes 13 and 34 of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
Where appropriate, we also read appropriate documentation to understand the legal positions reached.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that is there a broad range of possible outcomes.
In respect of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we evaluated managements assessment of how these assets will be realised and whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support their recognition.
We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were prepared ensuring consistency of cash flows with those used for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing.
Based on our procedures, future cash flow forecasts were both consistent with those used for impairment testing and supported the recoverability of the deferred tax assets recognised.
Control environment The geographical span and decentralised structure of the Group, coupled with the current disparate systems landscape and evolving control environment, means that there is an increased risk of errors remaining undetected and aggregating to cause a material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Progress has been made by the Group in 2016 to strengthen the controls framework through the implementation of Minimum Financial Controls MFC.
However, as the new framework was rolled out and implemented in 2016, the controls were not necessarily operational for the whole year.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 105 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued How our audit addressed the area of focus In recognition of the Groups scale and decentralised structure and aligning to the Groups regional management structure, we continued to deploy teams in each of the Groups regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed at a country component level and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
Given that the MFC framework and controls were not operational for the full year in 2016, we did not seek to test or rely on these controls for our 2016 audit.
We therefore instructed our component teams not to seek to rely on financial controls at the local business level but to perform a substantive audit focused on transaction testing and on the integrity of the year-end balance sheet.
With the support of our regional teams, we determined the entities to be included in our Group audit scope based on those locations with significant risk and those which contribute a significant amount to material line items in the Group financial statements.
Recognising the systemic risk associated with the current control and IT environment, all entities which contributed more than 2% of consolidated revenue and consolidated profit before tax were included in our audit scope.
We applied a reduction to our overall materiality to set a performance materiality benchmark that we used to determine the nature, timing and extent of our detailed audit procedures.
Our performance materiality benchmark of 9.5m reflected the Groups evolving control environment, the risk of multiple misstatements resulting in a material misstatement and the history of past audit adjustments.
Wherever we identified audit adjustments, we instructed our regional and country component teams to assess whether similar errors had arisen elsewhere.
While we did identify audit differences across the Group, management corrected the more significant items meaning that the uncorrected items reported to the Audit Committee were considered to be immaterial for adjustment, both individually and in aggregate.
Income statement presentation The Group has historically reported specific and other items including restructuring costs which are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement and which are excluded from managements reporting of the underlying results of the business.
Consistent with the Groups definition of profit before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA, the following items have continued to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement in 2016: net specific items 13m 2015: 70m : restructuring costs 12m 2015: 44m : goodwill impairments 9m 2015: 66m : and net profit on disposal and closure of subsidiaries 7m 2015: 12m.
The treatment of specific and other separately disclosed items is explained in the Group accounting policy in note 3 b.
We focused on this area because the classification of items as specific requires judgement and because certain of these items are excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration in line with the Groups remuneration policy.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting in the Annual Report.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 3 b of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate corroborating evidence.
We considered whether the designation of individual items as specific was consistent with the Groups accounting policy and treatment in prior years.
Furthermore, we considered whether amounts included as specific items related to the current year and might be more appropriately reflected in the underlying results.
We considered whether the Group has taken a balanced approach to this area, checking that exceptional one-off items of income are treated consistently with one-off items of cost.
We tested managements process for identifying and tracking the current year reversal of any prior year specific items, or utilisation of or adjustment to related provisions, to identify whether these have been appropriately presented in the current year income statement.
Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classification of these items were consistent year-on-year and with the Groups policies.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into seven geographical regions being Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, Middle East & India, North America and the UK & Ireland UK&I.
A corporate head office region is managed at a Group level.
Each geographical region regional component is an aggregation of a number of country-based components along with the Groups interests in joint ventures together the country components.
Each geographical region has a separate management team which coordinates the businesses within that region.
The Groups accounting processes are structured around a local finance function in each of the country components.
In addition, finance shared service centres in the UK, North America and India support certain of the Groups businesses.
The country components report to the regions and to the Group through an integrated consolidation system.
In performing our audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the regional components.
We therefore deployed regional component audit teams in each of the seven regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed on the country components and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
In addition to the seven regional components, specific audit procedures over central functions, the 106 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Financial report Group consolidation and areas of judgement including taxation, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, treasury and post-retirement benefits were directly led by the Group audit team.
Recognising that not every country component in each regional component is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained in aggregate by our regional component teams by reference to country components at which audit work had been undertaken.
Beneath the regional component layer, the Group financial statements are an aggregation of over 700 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a country component.
We identified 130 country component units that, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further 11 country component units to give appropriate coverage of all material balances.
Where the work was performed by regional and country component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components.
As a result, six of the seven regions were visited by senior members of the Group audit team as a supplement to the regular dialogue between our Group and regional teams and the issuance of instructions to direct their work.
Regional teams visited a further 18 country components performing oversight procedures under our instruction.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our Group and our regional component audit teams involvement included regular dialogue with our country component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation in certain component audit clearance meetings for the more significant components.
Taken together, the components and functions where we performed either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures accounted for 85% of consolidated revenue, 81% of consolidated profit before tax and 83% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the regional and Group levels, including disaggregated analytical review procedures and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covered a significant portion of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 15 million 2015: 13 million How we determined it Approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is profit before interest, tax and amortisation adjusted for a number of items of income and expenditure PBITA.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it reflects the underlying performance of the Group.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before tax to add back acquisition-related amortisation and interest as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
Component materiality For each regional and country component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than overall Group materiality.
The range of overall materiality allocated to each regional component was between 3m and 9.5m and to each country component was between 0.01m and 9.5m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million 2015: 700,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 102, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw to your attention.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 107 Independent auditors report to the members of G4S plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 102, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the Code, We have no exceptions that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 72, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 66 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to add or to draw including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so to add or to draw and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a attention to reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
108 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Financial report Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the strategic report and directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 March 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 109
