Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc Our audit approach Report on the financial statements Overview Our opinion Materiality In our opinion: 5 Overall Group materiality: 6,750,000 which represents 5% of 5 Galliford Try plcs Group financial statements and Company profit before tax.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Audit scope view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as 5 The Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and Homes, Partnerships and Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, Companys cash flows for the year then ended: PPP Investments and Central Costs.
In establishing the overall 5 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that needed to be performed at these segments.
Of the Groups six IFRSs as adopted by the EU: segments, we identified that Linden Homes, Building, Infrastructure, Partnerships and Regeneration and Central Costs, in our view, 5 the Company financial statements have been properly prepared required an audit of their complete financial information, either due in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in to their size or their risk characteristics.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and 5 Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 99.7% 5 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of Group revenue and 98.8% of Group profit before tax.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Areas of focus Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited 5 Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: 5 Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued.
5 the Balance sheets as at 30 June 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 5 the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
5 the Statements of cash flows for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, 5 the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for for the year then ended: and example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 5 the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide EU, and applicable law and, as regards the Company financial an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this Companies Act 2006 and applicable law.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
80 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Fraud in revenue recognition Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue 5 For Construction revenue, we identified and assessed key judgments inherent in the recognition.
Construction contract accounting estimation of significant construction contract projects, by validating stage-of-completion is inherently complex and we focused on this and costs to completion on significant projects using surveyors latest valuations, as well area because there is judgment involved in as evaluating the final outcome on projects completed in the year in relation to previous estimating the costs to complete of projects estimates made.
which increases the inherent risk of fraud.
5 We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects to supporting documentation Revenue from fixed price construction contracts such as customer contracts and signed variations.
is recognised based upon managements 5 We tested the timing of construction contract revenue recognition, taking into account assessment of the value of works carried contractual obligations, the percentage of the contract completed, third-party certifications out considering performance against the and the timing of cash receipts.
programme of works, measurement of the 5 For Linden Homes revenue, we tested a sample of sales by examining legal completion works, detailed evaluation of the costs incurred and comparison to external certification of the documents.
We also considered the third-party release of mortgage finance, where appropriate, to check building work was complete.
Profit is not recognised until the outcome of the contract is reasonably certain.
5 We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual journal entries impacting revenue and performed testing on those items.
Refer to note 1: Accounting policies on pages 90 and 91 of the Annual Report and Financial We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Statements Annual Report, and Audit Committee Report on page 59 of the Annual Report.
Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued The valuation of developments is dependent 5 We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around the estimation upon the correct estimation and allocation of and allocation of common costs on sites, estimation of costs to complete and calculation common costs on Linden Homes sites.
Common costs are allocated proportionately 5 We compared managements assumptions on future sales prices for a sample of sites to across the site using projected site margin to completed sales and available industry data.
give a common gross profit margin on all units 5 We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimates of site and on that site, therefore changes in the total project margins, particularly around changes in the allocation of common costs on sites common costs incurred on a site over the life and any disputes or unresolved negotiations with subcontractors.
of the development can cause the profit margin to fluctuate.
There is risk that costs may be 5 We agreed a sample of costs incurred on sites, including common costs, to supporting documentation.
incorrectly estimated and allocated, resulting in developments not being recoverable.
5 We evaluated the ageing of developments and investigated large, older and slower-moving items by obtaining and corroborating explanations for the levels of provisions held against Older or slower-moving developments can such developments.
be an indication of potential impairment.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Refer to note 1: Accounting Policies on page 93 of the Annual Report.
Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued The valuation of amounts recoverable on 5 We assessed the evidence provided by management regarding recovery of the un-agreed construction contracts is dependent on value on projects.
This included external expert and legal advice and correspondence from judgments around stage of completion clients, subcontractors and insurers.
We considered the adequacy of provisions held.
and remaining costs to complete, as well as 5 We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around stage-of-completion, the associated provisions.
In some of the costs to complete and forecast margin calculations.
Groups projects there are assumptions about 5 We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimation of significant recovery of values from clients, designers, projects, particularly around stage of completion, costs to complete and provisions subcontractors or insurers, and value is on loss-making contracts through our testing of contract review meetings, reading recorded within work in progress which is correspondence with the customer and subcontractors, and obtaining audit evidence not yet agreed.
There is risk surrounding the on customer supplier disputes and insurance claims.
recoverability of the work in progress and the 5 We compared the final outcome on projects completed in the year to previous estimates completeness of provisions in place.
made on those projects to assess the reliability of managements estimates.
Refer to note 1: Accounting Policies on 5 We tested whether valid contractual agreements or other documentation was in place page 91 of the Annual Report and the to support a sample of balances.
Audit Committee Report on page 59 of the Annual Report.
5 We identified, and obtained and corroborated explanations for, unusual fluctuations in margins on significant projects.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 81 How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 77, in relation to going concern.
We have as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the nothing to report having performed our review.
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report if we have anything which the Group operates.
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have as a whole, we took into account: the segmental structure of the nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Group: the accounting processes and controls: and the industry As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing accordingly.
The Group is structured in six principal segments, the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the being Linden Homes, Partnerships and Regeneration, Building, Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, Infrastructure, PPP Investments and Central Costs.
The Group and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from financial statements are a consolidation of these six segments in the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we total.
The business segmental reporting also reflects the Groups have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is management and internal reporting structure.
However, because not all future events or conditions can In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups the type of work that needed to be performed at these reporting units.
and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Of the groups six reporting units, we identified that Linden Homes, Building, Infrastructure, Partnerships and Regeneration and centralised functions, in our view, required an audit of their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 99.7% of Group revenue and 98.8% of Group profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included assessment of the valuation of goodwill and legacy defined benefit pension scheme balances.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 6,750,000 2015: 5,550,000.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for Consistent with last year, we applied benchmark applied this benchmark as a generally accepted auditing practice applicable for a trading group of companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 300,000 2015: 277,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
82 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 5 information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
5 the statement given by the directors on page 77, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
5 the section of the Annual Report on pages 58 and 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: 5 the directors confirmation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
5 the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
5 the directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 83 Adequacy of accounting records and information What an audit of financial statements involves and explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes 5 we have not received all the information and explanations we require an assessment of: for our audit: 5 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 5 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from applied and adequately disclosed: branches not visited by us: or 5 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 5 the company financial statements and the part of the Directors by the directors: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
5 the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, Directors remuneration and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We test and examine information, using sampling and other to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide Companies Act 2006. a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Other Companies Act 2006 reporting procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited this responsibility.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Corporate governance statement knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Hook Responsibilities for the financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor and the audit for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibilities and those of the directors London As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation 14 September 2016 of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
