Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report To the members of GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited Opinions and conclusions In arriving at our audit opinion above we evaluated the competence arising from our audit on the financial statements, the risk of the Companys third party of material misstatement that had Valuation Agent in the context Opinion on financial statements the greatest effect on our audit was of their ability to appropriately We have audited the financial as follows: challenge and review the fair value statements of GCP Infrastructure of the Investments prepared by Investments Limited the Company Valuation of financial assets at fair value the Company, by assessing their for the year ended 30 September 2016 through profit and loss Investments professional qualifications, which comprise the statement of 699,682,000 or 93% of total assets experience and independence comprehensive income, the statement Refer to page 42 of the Audit from the Company: of financial position, the statement of Committee report, note 2.2 Significant changes in equity, the statement of we engaged our own valuation accounting judgements and estimates, cash flows and the related notes.
specialist, who used market and note 11 Financial assets at fair value The financial reporting framework that investment specific knowledge to through profit or loss and note 19.3 has been applied in their preparation support our challenge of the Financial instruments.
is applicable law and International inputs and assumptions used by The risk: Financial Reporting Standards as the Company in determining the 93% of the Companys total assets are adopted by the European Union.
discount rates applied in arriving represented by the fair value of a In our opinion, the financial at the fair value of a sample of the portfolio of unquoted infrastructure statements: Investments: and debt investments domiciled in the give a true and fair view of the state we performed substantive United Kingdom the Investments.
of the Companys affairs as at procedures in relation to the The Companys determination of the 30 September 2016 and of its total Companys determination of fair fair value of the Investments involves profit and comprehensive income value on a sample of the using a discounted cash flow for the year then ended: Investments, which included: methodology, where the inputs and have been properly prepared in assumptions such as amounts and comparing the long-term accordance with International timings of cash flows, the calculation forecasted cash flows included Financial Reporting Standards of appropriate discount rates and the in the discounted cash flow as adopted by the EU: and selection of appropriate values models to the terms of the surrounding uncertain future events original agreements such as have been prepared in accordance are subjective.
As a result, there is a the repayment profile, with the requirements of the risk that the Company selects inputs repayment premium, loan term Companies Jersey Law, 1991. and assumptions that may not be and the coupon: Our assessment of risks of appropriate.
This may result in a compared the to date financial material misstatement materially different fair value being performance of the The risks of material misstatement attributed to the Investments.
Investments against forecasted detailed in this section of this report Our response: cash flows for the same period are those risks that we have deemed, Our audit procedures with respect in the context of determining in our professional judgement, to have to the valuation of Investments the accuracy of cash flow had the greatest effect on: the overall included, but were not limited to, forecasts included in the audit strategy: the allocation of the following: discounted cash flow models: resources in our audit: and directing and the efforts of the engagement team.
we tested the design and Our audit procedures relating to these testing the mathematical implementation of controls adopted risks were designed in the context of accuracy of the discounted by the Company over the review, our audit of the financial statements cash flow models.
challenge and subsequent approval as a whole.
Our opinion on the of the fair value of the Investments: financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  53 Financial statements Independent Auditors report continued To the members of GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited Valuation of financial assets at fair value Our audit of the Company was If we become aware of any apparent through profit and loss Investments undertaken to the materiality level material misstatements or 699,682,000 or 93% of total assets specified above, which has informed inconsistencies we consider continued our identification of significant risks the implications for our report.
of material misstatement and the Our response: continued Disclosures of principal risks associated audit procedures performed We considered the adequacy of the Based on the knowledge we acquired in those areas as detailed above.
Companys disclosures in note 19.3 during our audit, we have nothing in respect of the fair value of Whilst the audit process is designed material to add or draw attention to in Investments, specifically the estimates to provide reasonable assurance of relation to: and judgements made by the identifying material misstatements the Directors viability statement on Company in arriving at that fair value.
or omissions it is not guaranteed to page 33 concerning the principal We also reviewed the disclosure of the do so.
Rather, we plan the audit to risks, their management, and, degree of sensitivity of a fair value to a determine the extent of testing needed based on that, the Directors reasonably possible change in the to reduce to an appropriately low level assessment and expectations of the discount rate.
the probability that the aggregate of Company continuing in operation uncorrected and undetected Our application of materiality and an over the five years to 2021: or misstatements does not exceed overview of the scope of our audit the disclosures in note 2.1 of the materiality for the financial statements Materiality is a term used to describe financial statements concerning the as a whole.
This testing requires us to the acceptable level of precision in use of the going concern basis of conduct significant depth of work on a financial statements.
broad range of assets, liabilities, standards describe a misstatement income and expense as well as Matters on which we are required or an omission as material if it could devoting significant time of the most to report by exception reasonably be expected to influence experienced members of the audit Under International Standards on the economic decisions of users taken team, in particular the Responsible Auditing [ISAs] UK and Ireland we on the basis of the financial Individual, to subjective areas of the are required to report to you if, based statements.
The auditor has to apply accounting and reporting process.
on the knowledge we acquired during judgement in identifying whether a An audit involves obtaining evidence our audit, we have identified other misstatement or omission is material about the amounts and disclosures in information in the annual report that and to do so the auditor identifies a the financial statements sufficient to contains a material inconsistency with monetary amount as materiality for give reasonable assurance that the either that knowledge or the financial the financial statements as a whole.
financial statements are free from statements, a material misstatement Materiality for the financial statements material misstatement, whether of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
as a whole was set at 6,860,000. caused by fraud or error.
This includes In particular, we are required to report This has been calculated using a an assessment of: whether the to you if: benchmark of the Companys total accounting policies are appropriate assets of which it represents we have identified material to the Companys circumstances approximately 1% which we believe inconsistencies between the and have been consistently applied is the most appropriate benchmark as knowledge we acquired during our and adequately disclosed: the total assets are considered to be one audit and the Directors statement reasonableness of significant of the principal considerations for that they consider that the annual accounting estimates made by the members of the Company in assessing report and financial statements Board of Directors: and the overall the financial performance.
taken as a whole is fair, balanced presentation of the financial We agreed with the audit committee and understandable and provides statements.
In addition, we read all the to report to it all corrected and the information necessary for financial and non-financial information uncorrected misstatements we members to assess the Companys in the annual report to identify identified through our audit with a value performance, business model and material inconsistencies with the in excess of 343,000, in addition to strategy: or audited financial statements and other audit misstatements below that to identify any information that is the Audit Committee report does threshold that we believe warranted apparently materially incorrect based not appropriately address matters reporting on qualitative grounds.
on, or materially inconsistent with, communicated by us to the Audit the knowledge acquired by us in the Committee.
course of performing the audit.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  54 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Under the Companies Jersey Law, Respective responsibilities 1991, we are required to report to you of Directors and Auditor if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities adequate accounting records have set out on page 52, the Directors are not been kept by the Company: or responsible for the preparation of the the Companys financial statements financial statements and for being are not in agreement with the satisfied that they give a true and fair accounting records: or view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and we have not received all the express an opinion on, the financial information and explanations we statements in accordance with require for our audit.
applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under the Listing Rules we are comply with the UK Ethical Standards required to review the part of the for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Steven D. Stormonth Governance Code specified for For and on behalf of our review.
KPMG Channel Islands Limited We have nothing to report in respect Chartered Accountants and Recognised of the above responsibilities.
Auditors Scope of report and responsibilities Jersey, Channel Islands The purpose of this report and 13 December 2016 restrictions on its use by persons other than the Companys members as a body This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
