Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 89 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Genus plc Opinion on Financial In our opinion: Statements of Genus plc the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 53.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Thefinancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent CompanyFinancial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101.
Going concern and the Directors As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the assessment of the principal risks appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the Financial that would threaten the solvency Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained orliquidity of the Group within the Directors Report on page 86.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 88 that they have carried out a robust assessment of theprincipal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 1819 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors Statement on page 88 that they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: the Directors explanation on page 86 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did notidentify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a goingconcern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any ofthe prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest materialmisstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of theengagement team.
The risks identified are the same risks as in the prior year except that the prior year report included one further risk related to accounting for acquisitions as there was a significant acquisition: nosimilar acquisitions were made in the current year.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not currently required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations inrespect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 90 Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of Genus plc Fair value of biological assets under IAS 41 Agriculture Risk description The Group calculates the fair value of biological assets through the use of discounted cash flow models and recent transaction prices.
As at 30 June 2016, the total fair value of biological assets is 331m.
The valuation models and related data inputs and assumptions require a number of management estimates as explained in note 15 to the Financial Statements.
This is disclosed asacritical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty in note 4.
For bovine asset valuations the key assumptions include: the future demand for semen sales volume : estimated production volume, unit prices and marketable life for each bull: the discount rate applied to the future cash flows: and the percentage of bulls which are expected to be actively marketed.
For porcine asset valuations the key assumptions include: the percentage of production animals expected to be sold: the expected sales price: the expected useful life: and the discount rate applied to the future cash flows.
In addition, for the pure line pigs, the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herd.
How the scope of our audit Our response to this risk considers the separate elements of the fair value calculations: the basis responded to the risk for managements estimates and judgements applied in the key assumptions: the validity of transactional data used for other inputs: and the mechanical integrity of the models themselves.
For the bovine asset valuations, our audit work included obtaining an understanding of managements processes surrounding the compilation of the future demand, marketable life and production volume forecasts.
We considered the appropriateness of projected prices, volume growth rates against historical trends and current performance, and analysed managements historical forecasting accuracy.
For the porcine asset valuations our audit work included consideration of the appropriateness of managements assessment of the number of future generations from which output is attributable to the current herd and expected useful lives.
We tested the expected percentages of animals to be sold, retained and slaughtered as well as recent selling prices by reference to historical transactional data.
For all other assumptions in each model we challenged the significant estimates with reference to third party or historical transactional data as appropriate.
For both species valuation models, we used internal valuation experts in our testing of the discount rates applied to the cash flows.
We also tested the mechanical integrity of the spreadsheets used to calculate the fair values using analytical tools and performed sensitivity analyses on the key assumptions.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions and inputs used within the IAS 41 models prepared by management for bovine and porcine are appropriate.
Valuation of pension schemes and post-retirement benefits Risk description The Group operates several defined benefit pension schemes, for which there is judgement in determining the net deficit valuation under IAS 19.
At 30 June 2016, the net deficit is 44.5m andthe aggregate scheme liabilities are 357m.
The valuation of the aggregate pension net deficit is based on a number of assumptions disclosed in note 27 such as the discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy.
This is disclosed as a critical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty in note 4.
Genus is party to the Milk Pension Fund, a multi-employer pension scheme and is exposed to the risk of additional liabilities from the default of other scheme members beyond its current 75% share of the liabilities.
As part of the 2015 Triennial Valuation process, the trustees of the Milk Pension Fund changed the index used for pension and deferred pension increases from RPI to CPI.
As a result a gain of 43.9m was recorded, as set out in note 27.
Following this change the net present value of deficit repair contributions of 34.3m exceeds the IAS 19 valuation of the net liability of 19.4m, andthus an additional liability has been recorded under IFRIC 14.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 91 Valuation of pension schemes and post-retirement benefits How the scope of our audit In conjunction with our actuarial specialists, we have evaluated the appropriateness of responded to the risk managements methodology and assumptions used to value the defined benefit pension schemes, including the change from RPI to CPI, by benchmarking the assumptions to those usedin the external market as at the same date.
In addition, we circularised the independent actuaries and investment managers responsible for managing the pension funds to provide supporting evidence for the source inputs into the pension valuations, including membership data.
In response to the risk of additional liabilities for the multi-employer scheme arising from other employers, we have considered the financial strength and stability of remaining employers in the scheme and their ability to contribute to the deficit through a review of the most recent publicly available financial information.
In respect of the judgement over the use of the revised Schedule of Contributions to calculate the additional minimum funding liability under IFRIC 14, we have reviewed the relevant correspondence between the Company, the employer group and the trustees.
We have considered the deadline for the agreement of the Schedule of Contributions as set out in Code ofPractice issued by The Pensions Regulator and the extent of the powers held by the Trustees toset the contribution rates for each employer.
Key observations From the work performed above, we are satisfied that all assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities are appropriate and that the fair value of the net deficit of the Milk Pension Fund is calculated appropriately.
Impairment of goodwill Risk description The Group has 86.0m of goodwill on its balance sheet, as set out in note 14.
There is a risk regarding potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill arising from historical acquisitions.
In managements impairment assessment there are a number of key judgements used to determine the recoverable amount, including the identification of cash-generating units CGUs, growth rates in future cash flow forecasts, the cost savings to be derived from the Genus Sexed Semen GSS project and discount rates applied to these forecasts.
How the scope of our audit We challenged the assumptions used by management in their annual impairment assessment by responded to the risk comparing the projected growth rates and forecast cash flows against historical trends achieved in the business in the wake of what has been challenging market conditions.
We analysed historical budgeting accuracy to assess the reliability of managements forecasts.
We reviewed third-party market data sources used by management in their forecast models.
We reviewed and challenged managements identification of CGUs and the level of CGU aggregation at which goodwill is allocated and monitored, which is consistent with last year.
We agreed the projected cost savings from the GSS project to detailed plans and forecasts andverified that the impact of the recent court ruling was included within managements assessment appropriately.
We evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment assumptions to reasonably possible changes and considered the associated disclosures providedby the Group in relation to its impairment review within note 14.
We used valuation specialists within the audit team to challenge the discount rates applied to these cash flows by reference to market data, including the risk premium applied to each CGU.
This involved benchmarking the rates against, for example, other companies operating insimilarregions.
Key observations We have assessed the impairment calculations on goodwill on each CGU and are satisfied that the assumptions applied within the models are appropriate.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 92 Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of Genus plc Impairment of capitalised development costs Risk description As set out in note 14 the Group capitalises development costs in relation to the Genus Sexed Semen project.
The total capitalised to date is 17.8m.
There is a risk regarding potential impairment of development costs capitalised, including theimpact of the recent court rulings in relation to the ongoing case with Sexing Technology, aswell as whether the costs capitalised meet the criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Management assesses these costs for impairment by using a net present value model for the project.
This model includes the following assumptions subject to judgement: the projected cashflows, growth rates and discount rates applied.
How the scope of our audit We tested the development costs capitalised to assess whether they meet the criteria for responded to the risk capitalisation as set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
We reviewed managements assessment of the carrying value of costs capitalised and challenged the assumptions applied to the total project with reference to Board-approved forecasts and historical growth rates.
We reviewed the project specific risk premium added to the discount rate in conjunction with our valuation specialists.
We discussed the progress of the project with project managers and discussed the impact of the related litigation with management and external legaladvisors.
We also assessed whether the additional future costs to be incurred by the Company as a result of the recent court ruling have been correctly incorporated within the impairment assessment.
Key observations We have assessed the impairment calculations for capitalised development costs and are satisfied that the assumptions applied within the models are appropriate.
We are satisfied that the costs capitalised meet the criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 6061.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.2m 2015: 2.3m, which is 5.3% 2015: 5.8% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets, and below 1% 2015: 1% of equity.
We have used a profit-based measure given the Group is listed and therefore shareholders focus on profitability as adjusted for the exceptional items and changes in fair value of biological assets to avoid distortion that could otherwise arise due to non-recurring items and fair value movements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2015: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 1.1m to 1.7m 2015:1.1m to 1.9m.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 93 An overview of the scope of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, ouraudit including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 22 components 2015: 20.
Eleven of these were subject to a full audit 2015: twelve, whilst the remaining eleven 2015: eight were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The change in number of components within scope reflects the impact of acquisitions and certain entities which are no longer significant to the Group following internal restructuring.
These 22 components represent the principal business units and account for 99% 2015: 85% of the Groups net assets, 88% 2015: 78% of the Groups revenue and 92% 2015: 86% of the Groups profit before tax.
Specified audit Full audit procedures Total Revenue 74% 13% 87% Profit before tax 58% 22% 80% Net assets 85% 14% 99% They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits.
The lead audit partner visited the USA, UK, Mexico and Brazil components during the current and previous year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
In 2016, the Group audit team held a global team briefing with all component audit teams to assess the risks facing the Group on an international scale and to plan the work to be performed.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Act2006 accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required toreport by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 94 Independent Auditors Report continued To the members of Genus plc Our duty to read other information Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in the Annual Report inour opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies ormisleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible Directors and auditor for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, forouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial FinancialStatements Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Andrew Bond, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 7 September 2016 Genus plc Annual Report 2016
