STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC Opinion on financial statements of GKN plc The financial statements that we have audited comprise: In our opinion: the Consolidated Income Statement: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and the parent companys profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in accordance with International Financial Reporting in Equity: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the related notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 30: the parent company financial statements have been and properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom the related notes to the Company financial statements 1 to 5.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom IAS Regulation.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules, we have reviewed the Directors statement on going concern We confirm that we have nothing material and the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 38. to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting the Directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the and we did not identify any such material principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future uncertainties.
However, because not performance, solvency or liquidity: all future events or conditions can the disclosures on pages 40-49 that describe those risks and explain how they are being be predicted, this statement is not managed or mitigated: a guarantee as to the Groups ability the Directors statements on page 38 and in note 1 to the Company financial statements about to continue as a going concern.
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 38 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and We confirm that we are independent of confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities the Group and we have fulfilled our other in accordance with those standards.
ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described overleaf are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC CONTINUED Carrying value of assets including goodwill, intangible We have directed our internal valuation specialists to derive an and tangible asset recoverability independent expectation of the discount rates specific to the assets and markets being tested for impairment.
We also compared the Risk description long-term growth rates applied by the Directors to economic Refer to page 76 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting forecasts for regional productivity.
policies and presentation, note 11a and note 11c Goodwill and other intangible assets and note 12 Property, plant and equipment.
In determining the identification of CGUs we have made enquiries of management and challenged the fact pattern, including considering The Group holds goodwill of 0.6 billion, other intangible assets of the independence of cash inflows and the current level of interaction 1.3 billion and tangible assets of 2.7 billion at 31 December 2016. between plants.
The Group recognised impairment charges of 52 million in 2016.
We have audited the disclosures within note 11 to determine whether There are significant judgements attached to managements material disclosures have been made in accordance with IAS 36. impairment review including forecast cash flows, pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates and long-term growth rates which together Key observations give rise to a risk that assets subject to impairment testing are not From our work performed, we are satisfied with the carrying value valued correctly.
We identified four key risks as follows: of assets recognised.
Assumptions used within the forecast cash flows for those cash generating units CGUs which have been identified in our risk Recoverability of material contract related assets assessment as having material asset balances, low headroom and Risk description potential indicators of impairment, being St. Louis, Engine Products Refer to page 77 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting West, Engine Products East and Wheels China.
policies and presentation and note 11b Goodwill and other Value-in-use calculations are sensitive to assumptions derived by intangible assets.
management including discount rates and long-term growth rates.
There are material assets, including operating and non-operating We have identified the use of an appropriate and consistent intangible assets, recorded related to key aerospace contracts that methodology to determine discount rates to represent a key risk.
require management judgement to assess recoverability.
We have Long-term growth rates are calculated from external sources using identified a key risk in relation to the recoverability and therefore an established methodology.
existence and valuation of non-recurring cost NRC associated The appropriate application of IAS 36 in the identification of cash with significant Aerospace programmes.
We have focussed on this generating units.
risk because the Directors assessment of the recoverability of these assets involves complex and subjective judgements and assumptions Presentation in accordance with IAS 36 where the outcome of the about the future results of these programmes, including future impairment model is that a reasonably possible change in production rates and cost reductions.
assumptions may give rise to an impairment.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk In response to the risk identified, we have challenged the underlying We have obtained and understood the Directors impairment models assumptions within managements impairment assessment on for those CGUs including assets where the carrying value is subject material programmes including: to significant management judgement.
We have challenged managements key assumptions around the business drivers of the assessment of programme volume forecasts against external cash flow forecasts, discount rates and long-term growth rates.
analyst and industry expectations including specific consideration of the increase in production on the A350 programme: In evaluating the forecast cash flows presented we have: challenge of labour and overhead cost forecasts based on obtained external support for proposed sales growth: historical performance and assumptions regarding increases verified cost savings to detailed management plans and savings in production rates: already achieved: agreement of forecast pricing to contractual agreements: considered future margins relative to historical performance for engagement of specialists to assess the appropriateness each CGU: of discount rate assumptions through validating inputs and compared the position set out by management to our independently recalculating the rates being used: and understanding of industry factors relevant to that CGU: calculation of value in use under sensitised scenarios, where directed our internal valuation specialists to calculate an successful production increases are not achieved, compared to independent expectation of the discount rates for material CGUs the carrying value of assets.
where there is a risk of impairment, considering the risks specific We have assessed the appropriateness of the methodology applied to the assets and markets being tested for impairment: and by management in line with IAS 36. recalculated growth rates including a comparison of the inputs Key observations to macroeconomic forecasts.
From our work performed, we are satisfied with the carrying value of assets recognised.
112 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Revenue recognition Presentation and disclosure of non-trading items Risk description Risk description Refer to note 1 Accounting policies and presentation and note 2 Refer to page 77 Audit & Risk Committee report, note 1 Segmental analysis.
Accounting policies and presentation and note 3 Adjusted performance measures.
Sales are made worldwide on a number of different terms.
Each division has some areas of complexity.
However those that represent Trading profit, a non-statutory measure, is used by the Group to a key risk to the Group relate to the judgements taken within material report the business performance to investors and wider stakeholders.
risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSP in the Aerospace We have identified a key audit risk in the presentation of the financial division.
These complexities and judgements arise where GKN is performance of the Group, including the separate identification of entitled to a set percentage of revenue per engine as contractually non-trading items in arriving at the trading profit measure, and agreed with the programme partner.
The Directors exercise the completeness of items separately identified.
judgement as to how much revenue to recognise, reflecting the Non-trading items of 349 million were disclosed in 2016, which quantum of products despatched by the engine manufacturer and consisted of changes in value of derivatives and other financial the difference in pricing of original engine manufacturer parts and instruments, losses related to changes in Group structure, amortisation spare parts.
This risk specifically arises in Engine Systems, focussing of non-operating intangible assets, acquisition related restructuring on the timing at which risks and rewards are transferred and charges and impairment charges.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have also identified a key risk in the accuracy and occurrence We challenged and understood managements rationale for including of other material contract variations on existing contracts that certain items outside trading profit to ensure appropriate disclosure have arisen in the year and material new contracts in the year.
This was performed in the context of We note that contracts with customers sometimes contain multiple recent regulatory guidance, ensuring the purpose of using alternative performance obligations and require the Directors to exercise performance measures was set out and that they were clearly judgement over the appropriateness of the accounting treatment defined, consistent over time and included appropriate reconciliations for each individual part of the contract or arrangement.
How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We assessed the completeness of items separately identified as For each material RRSP contract, we have verified the amount non-trading items through an examination of costs recorded to of revenue recognised to check that it has been calculated in determine whether they only related to those non-trading items accordance with IAS 18 Revenue, the contractual agreement and defined above.
We agreed the amounts recorded through to the latest correspondence with the customer.
In particular, we have: underlying financial records and other audit support to verify agreed the percentage of revenue entitlement to the the amounts disclosed were complete and accurate.
customer contract: We focussed our review of the Group financial statements on the reviewed correspondence with the customer in the period: financial statement and narrative presentation of items which may be considered to be non-recurring in nature to determine whether challenged estimations made by the Directors at the year end by principles are being consistently applied and the resulting financial taking account of historical settlements and reviewing previous presentation is true and fair.
We have checked that the narrative estimation accuracy: and within the financial statements is balanced and that there are no performed an assessment of the timing at which risks and items in trading profit which are outside of the ordinary course rewards are transferred and revenue is recognised by identifying of business and materially distort the result.
the performance obligations from the contract and verifying the We tested, on a sample basis, restructuring costs recorded within recognition triggers.
trading profit and confirmed the validity of these costs by agreeing In order to identify material new contracts or contract variations, amounts to supporting contracts and payments.
We performed we have performed enquiries with the Directors and others in the a detailed assessment of the completeness and calculation of the Group and a review of Board meeting minutes and contracts subject restructuring provision held at 31 December 2016 to determine to senior approval under the delegation of authority.
whether the provision recorded was consistent with the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
For material contracts identified, we have reviewed the contract terms and verified assumptions made in determining the revenue Key observations recognition in accordance with IAS 18, including consideration of We are satisfied that the items excluded from trading profit and discounts, performance penalties and other cost implications the related disclosure of these items in the financial statements of the contract.
Key observations We are satisfied that the key assumptions made in determining the fair value of revenue recognised on RRSP contracts and new contracts in the year is appropriate.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC CONTINUED Assumptions made in determining pension liabilities Our application of materiality Risk description We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Refer to page 48 Principal risks and uncertainties, page 77 Audit & financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Risk Committee report, note 1 Accounting policies and presentation decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed and note 24 Post-employment obligations.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
The Group has a number of defined benefit obligation schemes with a gross liability of 4.6 billion, the majority of which relates Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality to schemes in the UK, US and Germany.
We have identified a key for the financial statements as a whole as follows: audit risk on the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities in the UK, US and Germany with specific focus on management judgements Group materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be exercised in selecting the discount rates used to determine the 25 million.
pension liability in accordance with IAS 19.
A relatively small change Basis for Materiality was determined as approximately 5% in assumptions could cause a material impact on the liability.
determining of adjusted pre-tax profit which was determined How the scope of our audit responded to the risk materiality on the basis of profit before tax adjusted to We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions exclude the impact of changes in valuation of for the UK, US and German schemes.
Our assessment included derivatives and other financial instruments, reviewing available yield curves to recalculate a reasonable range impairment charges and losses arising as for the key assumptions.
a result of changes in group structure.
We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes Rationale for the We determine materiality using profit before in key assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that benchmark applied tax adjusted to exclude the impact of changes could be used in their calculation.
Additionally, we benchmarked key in valuation of derivatives and other financial assumptions against other listed companies to identify any outliers instruments, impairment charges and losses in the data used.
arising as a result of changes in Group structure Adjusted PBT as it provides us with Key observations a consistent year-on-year basis for From the work performed, we are satisfied that the significant determining materiality.
assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme liabilities are appropriate.
Group materiality 25m These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Adjusted PBT 507m We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Component materiality was set based on quantitative and qualitative factors on a reporting unit basis between 5.3 million and 12.7 million.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
114 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION An overview of the scope of our audit returning to the largest and most complex sites on a rotational basis or when our ongoing risk assessment identifies such a need.
During the year the Group was structured along four segments: The Group engagement team had ongoing communication with GKN Aerospace, mainly located in the UK, Sweden and component audit teams throughout the year.
Senior members of the the Netherlands.
Group audit team were in contact, at each stage of the audit, with all GKN Driveline, mainly located in Europe and North America component teams including holding global planning calls on a Group, as well as a joint venture in China.
divisional and reporting unit basis which provided an opportunity for component teams to discuss the detailed instructions issued by GKN Powder Metallurgy, mainly located in North America the Group audit team and escalate any findings during the year.
as well as sites in Europe and Asia Pacific.
For a number of the component teams, the Group team was in GKN Land Systems mainly located in Europe and North America.
physical attendance at either the local audit planning or close meetings.
The Group audit team participated in every audit close Each division consists of a number of reporting units and manages meeting of full scope entities and discussed the detailed findings operations on a geographical and functional basis.
There are 235 of the audit with the component team.
reporting units in total, each of which is responsible for maintaining its own accounting records and controls and using an integrated Revenue consolidation system to report to UK head office.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining a detailed understanding of the Review at Group level nature of the Group including both the markets and geographies 12% it operates in.
We also considered the controls exercised by management at a business, divisional and Group level.
We have specified audit specifically considered the quantitative and qualitative risk factors procedures Full audit scope identified through this analysis when performing the scoping of 20% 68% our Group audit.
As this was the first year of our audit engagement, during the first half of the year we directed local Deloitte audit teams to perform preliminary visits to 18 of the most material businesses, and senior members of the Group audit team visited each of these locations.
We also performed a review of controls in place in the central finance team including the consolidation and treasury functions.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Based on our understanding of the Group and the preliminary visits Companies Act 2006 performed above, we selected 71 reporting units where we requested In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course components auditors to perform a full scope audit of the components of the audit: financial information.
Together these businesses represented 68% of the Groups revenue.
A full audit was also performed at the SDS joint the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited venture in China, which represented 86% of the share of post-tax has been properly prepard in accordance with the Companies earnings of equity accounted investments.
Act 2006: We also requested component auditors to perform specified audit the information given in the strategic report and the Directors procedures on certain account balances and transactions at report for the financial year for which the financial statements a further 47 reporting units.
These units represented 20% of the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Groups revenue.
the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared In order to support our opinion that there were no significant risks in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
of material misstatement in the remaining components not subject In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company to detailed audit procedures, we tested the consolidation process and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not and carried out analytical review procedures at a divisional level.
identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the The Group engagement team based at the head office also Directors report.
performed central procedures on post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation and goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
The Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
In addition to those sites visited during the first half of the year, the Group engagement team visited a further 14 locations based on significance and or risk characteristics, as well as on a rotational basis to ensure coverage across the Group.
Going forward, we will follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that senior members of the audit team will continue to visit new sites as well as GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate governance statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report We confirm that we have not identified any such Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, inconsistencies or information in the annual report is: misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
116 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 27 February 2017 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117
