149 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion Our other areas of focus have been rened to reect developments in In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plcs Group financial statements: the Groups business including continued competitive pricing pressure and discounting in the US and the resolution of the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 investigation into the Groups commercial practices by the SEC-DoJ.
December 2016 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: Overview Materiality have been properly prepared in accordance with International Overall group materiality: 260 million which represents 4% Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of profit before tax adding back certain items adjusted profit European Union: and before tax 2015 200 million.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Audit scope Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our audit included full scope audits of 15 reporting components Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB with specic audit procedures performed at a further 45 reporting As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, components.
in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Taken together, the components at which audit work was has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting performed accounted for 71% of consolidated revenue, 71% of Standards Board IASB.
consolidated profit before tax and 73% of adjusted profit before In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as tax and covered all components that individually contributed more issued by the IASB.
than 2% of revenue, profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax.
What we have audited Areas of focus The Group financial statements, included within the Annual Report, Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US comprise: Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2016: Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement Acquisition-related liabilities of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Uncertain tax positions the consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: Litigation the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then Finance transformation ended: and Investigations into the Groups commercial practices the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory The scope of our audit and our areas of focus information.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, Our audit approach including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Context directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to The context of our audit is set by the Groups activities in 2016. fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures Having reduced the extent of finance transformation in 2015 because designed and executed to address these risks included use of data of the completion of the three-part transaction with Novartis, the enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and post-close Group increased the pace of change in 2016, with a number of adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting markets migrating onto the Groups common enterprise-wide estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off resource planning platforms ERP or moving financial transaction procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and processing and accounting services to business process testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In outsourcing locations BPO and to in-house business service addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit centres BSC as well as establishing two new BPOs in Europe and work each year.
The Group also migrated to a new consolidation platform The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our BISON and implemented a new system for tracking intercompany audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are inventory transfers and calculating intra-group unrealised profit in identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out inventory IPT.
As a result, transformation of the Groups finance how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to processes is included as an area of focus in our 2016 report.
provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any In addition, the Group has made certain changes in 2016 to its comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read agreements with Pzer and Shionogi in respect of the non-controlling in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our interest each holds in ViiV Healthcare.
These changes, together with audit.
remeasurements to ViiV and other acquisition-related liabilities, had a significant impact on the corresponding accounting and valuation judgements and have therefore also been included as an area of focus.
150 GSK Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Refer to notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements.
Groups stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall government funded benefit schemes and historical levels of product under certain commercial and government mandated contracts returns.
and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are Medicaid and Medicare.
The Group also provides a right of We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, return to its customers for certain products.
discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current payment trends.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving Groups estimates in previous years, and the impact of competitive at turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide pricing pressures and greater discounting in the US market more customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of generally.
We formed an independent expectation of the largest return, which for unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
elements of the accrual at 31 December 2016 using third party data We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the and returns arrangements are complex and because establishing Group.
an appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material estimation by the directors.
This judgement is particularly complex differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
in a US healthcare environment in which competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are growing trends.
The directors have determined an accrual of 2,218 million to be necessary at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 1,671 million.
The increase in the accrual in 2016 is primarily due to foreign exchange rate impacts.
Two other factors driving the increased accrual were higher sales, as well as greater discounts due to competitive pressures, particularly in relation to Advair.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Groups Refer to notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key statements.
assumptions, including profit and cash ow growth or decline, terminal values, the impact of the expiry of patents, potential product The Group has 17.8 billion of intangible assets 31 December obsolescence and the selection of discount rates.
We challenged 2015 16.0 billion, comprising significant licences, patents and management to substantiate its assumptions, including comparing acquired trademarks and excluding computer software.
In relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
addition, the Group has 6.0 billion of goodwill at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 5.2 billion.
We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we corroborated certain information with third party sources, including The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the contingent on future cash ows and there is a risk that the assets business.
We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity will be impaired if these cash ows do not meet the Groups analyses to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in key expectations.
The impairment reviews performed by the Group assumptions and we performed our own independent sensitivity contained a number of significant judgements and estimates calculations to quantify the downside changes to managements including revenue growth, the success of new product launches, models required to result in impairment.
genericisation of existing products following patent expiry, profit margins, cash conversion, terminal values and discount rate.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge of Changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment to the 22 million recorded for intangible assets was appropriate.
For those carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required, we found that these judgements were During the year, the Group changed its basis of aggregating supported by reasonable assumptions which would require individual cash generating units CGUs for goodwill impairment unreasonable downside changes before any additional material testing purposes now comprising Global Pharmaceuticals, impairment was necessary.
This exercise was undertaken to align to the Groups operating segments, which In respect of the aggregation of CGUs, we confirmed that this is the resulted in the aggregation of Pharmaceuticals and ViiV lowest level at which management monitors goodwill for internal Healthcare.
purposes and that it is consistent with the way in which the Groups results are reported to the Board and the Corporate Executive Team.
We focused on intangible assets acquired through historical acquisitions, as these are the most significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite lives, including the most significant of the intangible assets acquired from Novartis in 2015.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.
151 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition-related liabilities We deployed our valuations specialists in evaluating certain key Refer to notes 3, 27, 30, 38, 39 and 42 in the Group financial assumptions, including growth projections and discount rate as well as the integrity and mechanical accuracy of each of managements valuation statements.
We considered whether reasonably possible changes would have In recent years, the Group has completed a number of significant a significant impact on the value recorded.
Certain procedures are specic transactions, including: to individual liabilities and included the following: The three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015: Consumer Healthcare put option: The redemption price will contractually The establishment of ViiV Healthcare in 2009: and be based on a multiple to be agreed between GSK and Novartis of Consumer Healthcares revenue and profit.
We compared the earnings The acquisition by ViiV Healthcare of the remaining 50% interest forecast approved by the Consumer Healthcare board of directors and in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare in 2012. used by management in its model to the actual earnings in 2016 and Each of these transactions resulted in the recognition and understood the reasons for changes.
We also considered the measurement of material acquisition-related liabilities, which appropriateness of earnings multiples applied to this forecast and the necessitate significant management judgement at each balance assumption about option exercise date: sheet date.
ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: We compared the projections In addition, during February 2016 the Group waived certain rights it for the Groups dolutegravir products to third party expectations of had in respect of non-controlling interests held by Pzer and Shionogi growth and considered the potential upside and downside impact of in ViiV Healthcare and the terms of the arrangement with Shionogi products launched and expected to be launched by the Groups were amended again in December 2016. competitors: and The most significant of the acquisition-related liabilities are outlined ViiV Healthcare put options: We obtained and reviewed the written below: agreements between the Group and each of Pzer and Shionogi.
Certain assumptions related to forecast revenue from dolutegravir Consumer Healthcare put option: The Group recorded a liability products used in the valuation of these liabilities are consistent with the for the present value of the expected redemption price of a written ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration.
For other components of the put option over Novartis non-controlling interest in Consumer valuation, we considered the appropriateness of the assumptions made Healthcare.
At 31 December 2016, this liability had a carrying value about forecast growth rates and margins by reference to historical of 7,420 million 2015 6,287 million : performance and to Board approved budgets and third party forecast ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: On acquisition of the data.
remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture Each of these three acquisition-related liabilities is subject to significant in 2012, 659 million was recorded as contingent consideration.
estimation uncertainty and the range of possible outcomes is very broad.
This represented the fair value of expected payments to be made However, we are comfortable that the value of each liability at 31 December to Shionogi, contingent on future sales of dolutegravir products.
2016 is reasonable and reects managements best estimates at this time.
This liability is required to be re-measured to its fair value at each reporting date.
Since initial recognition, it has been increased in We reviewed the disclosures about each acquisition-related liability, response to actual and future sales signicantly exceeding original including managements commentary about estimation uncertainty and the expectations including the impact of changes in foreign exchange range of alternative outcomes.
We are satisfied that these disclosures are rates.
At 31 December 2016, the liability was 5,304 million appropriate.
2015 3,409 million : and ViiV Healthcare put options: In 2009 and 2012, both Pzer and Shionogi were granted written put options by the Group that enabled each to put its non-controlling interest back to the Group in the future.
Up to and including 31 December 2015, no financial liabilities were recorded for these two options as each arrangement contained clauses that enabled the Group to avoid acquiring these interests if certain conditions were met.
In February 2016, the Group unilaterally waived certain of its rights.
As a result, liabilities with an aggregate value of 2,172 million were recognised.
In December 2016, agreement was reached with Shionogi, whereby it agreed to forego its rights to exercise its written put option.
As a result, the Groups associated liability of 1,244 million was fide recognised during December 2016.
At 31 December 2016, the liability in respect of Pzers written put option had a carrying value of 1,319 million.
In addition to these liabilities, the Group has recorded certain other acquisition-related liabilities at 31 December 2016, including 545 million in relation to contingent consideration payable on the acquisition of Novartis Vaccines business in 2015.
We focused on this area as the carrying value of each of the financial liabilities is material and is determined by management judgements and estimates, including projections of future sales of products, the potential impact of competitor products and the delivery of anticipated synergies.
In addition, each valuation is sensitive to changes in other assumptions, including discount rates and tax rates.
152 GSK Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements.
specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This included and there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and obtaining and evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group overseas tax authorities.
In addition, from time to time the Group has obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
enters into transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences, including the three-part transaction with Novartis In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we in 2015.
Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and required in respect of uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken in 2016, the Group has recorded provisions of 1,892 million in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax respect of uncertain tax positions 2015 1,687 million.
We noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
However, based on the evidence obtained we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
We considered managements disclosures in this regard and we agree with managements view that a material change to the Groups estimates of tax exposures is not expected within the next 12 months.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 46 in the Group financial litigation with in-house legal counsel.
We obtained and substantively statements.
tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or the decisions not to record provisions, including correspondence The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases with legal counsel.
We also monitored and considered external inherent litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal information sources to identify potential legal actions.
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes 29 We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions and 46. based on product litigation history and other available evidence to challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is by the Group.
We obtained conrmations from external legal counsel to uncertain and the positions taken by the directors are based on confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding litigation and the application of material judgement and estimation.
We evaluated significant adjustments to legal unexpected adverse outcomes could signicantly impact the provisions recorded during the year to determine if they were indicative Groups reported profit and balance sheet position.
At 31 December 2016, the Group held provisions of 344 million As disclosed in Notes 29 and 46 to the Group financial statements, the in respect of legal actions 31 December 2015 352 million.
eventual outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the outcome of future events and the position taken by the Group is inherently judgemental.
We found in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole that the judgements made by management were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.
153 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Finance transformation We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing, processes including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource and we conducted oversight visits to key BSC and BPO sites in Group planning system ERP and migrations of accounting services to audit scope namely India, Malaysia, Romania, the US and the UK to in-house business service centres BSCs and to third party direct the work performed.
business process outsourcing locations BPOs.
In addition, the We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key Group migrated onto new platforms for consolidation and for automated and manual controls both before and after the migration to tracking intercompany inventory transfers and calculating the centralised processing environment, including IT general controls intra-group unrealised profit in inventory in 2016. and controls in respect of data migration between ERP systems.
We These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations also substantively tested the accuracy and completeness of data are happening as controls and processes that have been migration into the new ERP along with the controls over this process established and embedded over a number of years are updated and we did not note any significant exceptions.
Similar procedures were and migrated into a new environment.
There is an increased risk of performed for the migrations onto the consolidation and intercompany breakdown in internal financial controls during the transition and profit tracking systems.
In respect of the latter, because of the an increased risk of inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial signicance of the inter-company profit in inventory adjustment we data, which would in turn increase risk of material misstatements performed detailed testing of the calculation at a component and Group to the Group financial statements.
level, supported by validation of key manual controls over this process.
We did not note any significant or unresolved exceptions in our testing.
Investigations into the Groups commercial practices We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel and Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 46 in the Group financial spoke with the Groups external advisors to assess the risk of statements.
occurrence of inappropriate activities, the status of ongoing investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties.
This The SEC-DoJ investigation into the Groups commercial practices included understanding and evaluating the Groups internal was concluded in September 2016, resulting in the Group paying investigations processes, which assess risks and allegations reported a penalty of $20 million.
The Group remains subject to an through various channels including whistle-blowing hotlines.
We also ongoing investigation by the SFO in the UK.
At 31 December evaluated the ongoing enhancements and changes that have been 2016, the Group concluded that it does not have sufficient clarity made to other control processes and business practices in recent years.
on the likely timing of the completion of this investigation nor is it able to make a sufciently reliable estimate of any ne or penalty Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings that the SFO might impose on the Group on completion of its of the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk investigation.
As a result, the Group has stated in Note 46 that it assessment exercise that management has performed into third party is unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the eventual interaction and engagement more broadly.
We used the output of this outcome.
assessment to instruct ten component teams including certain markets not otherwise included in Group audit scope to undertake risk-focused In addition, the Group continues to carry out its own investigations audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial in a number markets to ascertain whether inappropriate statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial commercial practices may have taken place.
implications of alleged illegal acts.
We focused on the following risks, which might have a material In respect of the SEC-DoJ investigation, we veried the settlement impact on the Groups financial statements: agreement and payment.
In respect of the SFO investigation, we That a ne and penalty might be forthcoming in respect of independently circularised external legal counsel engaged by the Group ongoing investigation into the Groups commercial practices by to obtain its views about the status of the investigation and to ascertain the SFO, which could give rise to the need for a material the reasonableness of managements assertions in respect of the likely provision: and outcome.
That inappropriate activities have occurred, which could also Based on these procedures, we were satisfied with the Groups give rise to material fines or penalties or result in asset provisioning decisions at 31 December 2016 and with the adequacy of impairment.
the disclosures given the status of investigations.
154 GSK Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope Further specic audit procedures over central functions, the Group We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed consolidation and areas of significant judgement including taxation, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benets and the as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in inventory were Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in directly led by the Group audit team.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500 audit work accounted for 71% of consolidated revenue, 71% of reporting components.
We identied 15 reporting components that, consolidated profit before tax and 73% of adjusted profit before tax.
in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence due to their size or risk characteristics.
This excludes 13 central from performing audit work at the divisional and Group levels, adjustment entities audited at a Group level.
Specic audit including testing of monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical procedures over significant balances and transactions were review procedures, which covers a significant portion of the Groups performed at a further 45 reporting components to give appropriate smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in coverage of all material balances.
Where these reporting our Group audit scope.
In addition, we obtained indirect audit components are supported by shared financial service centres, these evidence over certain out-of-scope components through the centres were also included in Group audit scope.
None of the procedures we undertook at the Groups shared service centres, reporting components not included in our Group audit scope encompassing BPOs and BSCs, and over centralised IT individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, profit infrastructure where these processes are standardised.
before tax or adjusted profit before tax.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting component units.
As a result, 19 overseas components were visited by senior members of the Group audit team, including each of the Groups nancially significant components in the US which are visited at least annually as well as Belgium, Japan, China, Switzerland, Germany, Ireland and Italy.
In addition, we visited four of the overseas shared service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit scope.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with our component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation in certain component audit clearance meetings.
155 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 260 million 2015 200 million.
How we determined it 4% of profit before tax adding back certain items, including the remeasurement charges for Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration 2,162 million and Vaccines contingent consideration 64 million, the re-measurement charges for the Consumer Healthcare 1,133 million and ViiV Healthcare 567 million put options, major restructuring costs 974 million, legal costs 162 million and impairment of intangible assets 22 million and deducting net income relating to the gain on disposal of assets 525 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in one-off items.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller non-core items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identied during our audit above 10 million 2015 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing statement, set out on page 148, in relation to going concern.
We the Group financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes have nothing to report having performed our review.
that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are also required to report to you if we the Group financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to appropriate.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
156 GSK Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors report continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been applicable requirements prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are audit: required to report if we have identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report in this respect.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 148, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 97, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation on page 106 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business add or to draw attention to.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 56 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing material to have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be add or to draw attention to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
157 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities by the directors: and set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the give a true and fair view.
directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
procedures or a combination of both.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly audited financial statements and to identify any information that is agreed by our prior consent in writing.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent What an audit of financial statements involves with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
With assurance that the financial statements are free from material respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable assessment of: legal requirements.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial Notes: statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December a The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc 2016. website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any auditors name should not be stated.
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in  LLP other jurisdictions.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 March 2017
