Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Opinion on financial statements of Glencore plc In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups income for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Income Loss : the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Loss : the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated Statement of Changes of Equity: and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Key risks Capital preservation Debt reduction plans: Impairments: Revenue recognition: Fair value measurements within the marketing operations: Classification of financial instruments: Credit and performance risk: and Taxation Our assessment of the Groups significant risks is consistent with 2015, except for Capital Projects and Commissioning which is no longer considered a significant risk as a result of the significant reduction in the Groups expansionary capital projects and related capital expenditures in 2016.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $150 million, based on a normalised Materiality 3-year average pre-tax profit.
We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 45 components, Scoping representing the Groups most material marketing operations and industrial assets.
These 45 components account for 92% of the Groups net assets, 95% of the Groups revenue and 89% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA.
Significant changes There were no significant changes to our audit approach when compared to 2015. in our approach 116 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Independence by the IASB We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, in Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in as issued by the IASB.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services Going concern and the Directors assessment referred to in those standards.
of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Our assessment of risks of material We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the misstatement appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting The assessed risks of material misstatement described contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and Group contained within the Governance section of the directing the efforts of the engagement team.
In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, We are required to state whether we have anything material we have considered any significant changes in the Groups to add or draw attention to in relation to: operations and the broader market conditions that may the Directors confirmation on page 89 that they have influence the audit risk profile of the Group.
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Our assessment of the Groups significant risks is consistent facing the Group, including those that would threaten its with 2015, except for Capital Projects and Commissioning business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: which is no longer considered a significant risk as a result of the disclosures on pages 3644 and 8993 that describe the significant reduction in the Groups expansionary capital those risks and explain how they are being managed projects and related capital expenditures in 2016. or mitigated: The description of risks below should be read in conjunction the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial with the significant issues considered by the Audit statements about whether they considered it appropriate Committee discussed on page 95.
These matters were to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in addressed in the context of our audit of the financial preparing them and their identification of any material statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 112 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 117 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Capital preservation Debt reduction plans Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Following the September 2015 announcement of a number of To scope our audit and respond to the risks associated with measures to preserve capital and reduce debt by the announced measures we have: 31 December 2016, the Groups initiatives are now completed undertaken a detailed assessment of each of the measures with Net Funding reduced to $32,619 million as at to assess how it may impact the Group and therefore our 31 December 2016.
Due to the bespoke nature of some of the audit response: specific reduction measures undertaken and the resultant enhanced our Group and component audit approach and market focus on them, we identified a heightened key audit risk assessment to address the risk of material risk relating to potential management override and earnings misstatement and potential management bias associated management with respect to fair presentation and with transactions underlying these measures, particularly disclosure of financial performance and position.
where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions Key measures delivered in 2016 include: are applied: sale of interests in the Agriculture Products business for individually material transactions relating to the Glencore Agri and the Ernest Henry Mining announced measures that were completed during the year operations EHM, disposal of Glencore Rail NSW Pty ended 31 December 2016, reviewed and tested these with Ltd GRail and the Antapaccay streaming transaction: reference to supporting documentation e. g. contractual agreements and assessed the associated reduction in capital expenditure to $3,497 million from accounting treatment focusing on fair presentation $5,957 million in 2015: and and disclosure: working capital management.
reviewed long-term advances including streaming Fair presentation and disclosure is achieved when the transactions received and working capital movements to transactions underpinning the announced measures have understand significant non-routine transactions impacting been recorded: the year-end financial position and reviewed the associated accounting for compliance with IFRS and for when the transaction has occurred occurrence evidence of potential management override and earnings and existence : management: and in accordance with the substance of the transaction rights continued to monitor operations where production was and obligations and classification : curtailed or suspended through on-going focus on in the correct amount in the appropriate accounting impairment of assets see Impairments below.
period measurement and cut-off : and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS including appropriate presentation and disclosure presentation and disclosure.
Refer to Key judgements within note 1 and additionally notes 10, 12, 19, 22 and 23.
Our conclusion Our testing noted no significant bias in the accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management on each of the significant transactions underpinning the measures and we concur with the accounting positions adopted.
We reviewed the disclosures of the sale of interests in Glencore Agri and EHM, the Antapaccay streaming transaction and the disposal of GRail transactions in notes 19 and 23 and found them to be in line with the relevant IFRS requirements.
Significant sales and purchase transactions affecting working capital and containing a financing element have been accounted for in line with IFRS requirements and the Group accounting policies as stated in note 1 of the financial statements.
118 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Impairments Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The carrying value of the Groups non-current assets, which We reviewed managements assessment of the indicators of includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, impairment and challenged the significant investments in associates and joint ventures, amounted to assumptions used.
Where significant indicators of impairment were identified, The volatility in expected future prices of certain we utilised Deloitte mining valuation specialists to assess commodities key to the Group particularly oil, copper, zinc the appropriateness of managements recoverable value and coal and foreign exchange rates, requires management models, which included the underlying model inputs and to closely monitor non-current asset carrying values.
Given the nature of the Groups industrial assets, We challenged the significant inputs and assumptions used developments concerning geology, production or in impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant distribution of the Groups products may also trigger a need and equipment, associates and joint ventures, specifically to consider impairment.
the commodity price, foreign exchange, assumed production levels, operating costs and discount rate assumptions, The outcome of impairment assessments could vary including consideration of the risk of management bias.
significantly were different assumptions applied.
Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 and Our challenge included comparing inputs and significant additionally notes 4, 5 and 9. assumptions, such as commodity price, foreign exchange, and discount rates, to third party forecasts, Deloitte In total, impairments amounting to $1,268 million note 5 developed discount rates, production to life of mine and and $345 million note 9 were recognised in the year ended hydrocarbon extraction plans and reserves and resources 31 December 2016 relating to oil and coal assets primarily estimates, assessing whether macro assumptions had been resulting from a reduction in managements long-term oil applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
price assumptions, specific production and reserve related issues.
Operating costs and production levels were compared to the current period actual results, management approved budgets and life of mine models.
We challenged managements sensitivity analysis by performing independent sensitivity analyses on selected assets, including those which were not identified as having indicators of impairment but have a higher risk of impairment due to lower available headroom in fair value models, volatility in key pricing assumptions or the existence of operational circumstances which may indicate potential for impairment.
We also assessed the adequacy of impairment related disclosures in the financial statements, including the key assumptions used and the sensitivity of the financial statements to these assumptions.
Our conclusion We concluded that managements assessment of impairment indicators was appropriate.
Where there were impairment indicators, our procedures found that the impairment models were in line with the underlying mine and hydrocarbon extraction plans and supported by appropriate inputs and assumptions.
We concluded that the key pricing and discount rate assumptions were in line with third party evidence and our experts acceptable ranges.
We reviewed managements disclosures on key assumptions and impairment sensitivities and found them to be appropriate.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 119 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Revenue recognition Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk primarily We have reviewed Glencores revenue recognition policies relating to the following: for compliance with the requirements of IAS 18 Revenue IAS 18.
Marketing operations: For marketing operations we: The completeness and accuracy of the capture of trades within the trade book and the timing of revenue evaluated the design, implementation and operating recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring effectiveness of key controls over revenue and the on or around year-end trade cycle: Judgement is required to determine when risks and assessed general IT controls surrounding major rewards have transferred under certain contractual technology applications and critical interfaces over arrangements with third parties revenue recognition and completeness and accuracy of trade capture: and Due to the significant volume of transactions and the complexity of the supporting IT systems, minor errors agreed, on a sample basis, deliveries occurring near could, in aggregate, have a material impact on the 31 December 2016 to supporting documentation to assess financial statements that the IFRS revenue recognition criteria were met for recognised sales and obtained third party confirmations Industrial assets: where relevant to check completeness and accuracy of Substantially all output from industrial assets will be sold trade books.
by the Groups marketing divisions.
For direct third party For industrial assets we: sales, a key risk relates to the consideration of embedded derivatives in sales contracts, particularly in commercial assessed the design and implementation of controls transactions with provisional pricing terms.
around the methodology adopted by management to identify the provisional pricing terms and the determination of estimates of metal in concentrate sold: and reviewed key new contracts for the existence of embedded derivatives and performed valuation testing as appropriate.
We also performed testing on journal entries using computer assisted profiling techniques to test for any management override of internal controls related to revenue recognition.
Our conclusion Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the revenue recognition policies are in line with IFRS and were appropriately applied throughout the period.
120 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, We performed internal control testing over managements financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective processes for determining inputs to fair value measurements area often requiring significant estimates, particularly and performed detailed substantive testing on a sample where valuations utilise unobservable inputs e. g. credit risk basis of the related fair value measurements.
assessments, market volatility and forecast operational We specifically tested the evidence supporting significant estimates.
At 31 December 2016, total Level 3 Other financial unobservable inputs utilised in Level 3 measurements in the assets and liabilities amounted to $558 million and fair value hierarchy as outlined in note 26 to the financial $612 million respectively.
statements, which included reviews of broker quotes, recent As the Groups marketing inventories and other financial transactions and other supporting documentation.
assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting date, these fair value measurements significantly impact the Groups results.
Refer to Key estimates and assumptions within note 1 and additionally notes 25 and 26.
Our conclusion Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the Level 3 fair value measurements were supported by reasonable assumptions in line with externally verifiable information where possible.
We have reviewed the financial statement disclosures on fair value measurements in note 26 and found them to be adequate.
Classification of financial instruments Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Glencore trades a diverse portfolio of commodities and We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies and utilises a wide variety of trading strategies in order to profit associated product flows within the Groups marketing from volatility in market prices, differentials and spreads departments using financial instrument experts embedded whilst maximising flexibility and optionality.
within the audit team with experience in commodity trading.
The classification of contracts relating to the Groups marketing operations is a judgemental area, particularly We analysed the trade books to identify incidents where distinguishing sales contracts where the Group physically contracts were not physically delivered net settled, which delivers its own production to a third party own use, may indicate tainting of the own use criteria.
from those which form part of the Groups Where a contract had been net settled, we checked that the marketing operations.
contract was appropriately ring-fenced from the own use Differences in classification affect recognition of associated trade book and mark-to-market reflecting the underlying gains and losses as contracts which are own use are facts and circumstances.
We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in the Refer to notes 25 and 26. financial statements in accordance with the requirements ofIFRS.
Our conclusion Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that all significant assumptions applied in respect of the classification of financial instruments are appropriate and disclosure given around financial instruments to be in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 121 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Credit and performance risk Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We undertook internal control testing of the Groups from the Groups global marketing operations and trade centralised and local credit and performance risk advances, particularly in markets demonstrating significant monitoring procedures.
price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
We challenged managements assessment of the This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, recoverability of aged and overdue receivables, loans and where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery advance payments with delayed or overdue deliveries, and customers are unable to make payments.
considering historical patterns of trading and settlement as well as recent communications with the counterparties and At 31 December 2016, total Advances and loans and other post balance sheet date evidence.
Accounts receivable amounted to $3,483 million and $20,066 million respectively.
In addition, we challenged the valuation of significant fixed price positions in commodities across the Group at year-end Refer to notes 10, 12 and 24. given the high price volatility during the year, particularly with respect to base metals and coal where the risk of non-performance is higher.
Our conclusion We concluded that the Groups provisioning in relation to counterparty and performance risk was appropriately assessed.
Taxation Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk There is significant judgement around accounting for We undertook a specific assessment of the material income taxes particularly in light of the number of components impacting the Groups tax expense, balances jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including and exposures and performed detailed audit procedures in judgements concerning residency of key corporate relation to these.
operations and holding companies, provisioning for tax We considered the appropriateness of managements exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation generating future taxable profits to support the recognition impacts of any corporate restructurings.
of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of profits and consistency of these forecasts with the the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and Groups budgets.
consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax We reviewed and challenged managements assessment of years open to audit.
uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax As at 31 December 2016, the Group has recorded a tax arrangements through discussions with the Group taxation expense of $638 million, $3,904 million of net deferred tax department, reviewing correspondence with local tax liabilities see note 6 and has disclosed its assessment of authorities, reviewing third party expert tax opinions and tax-related provisions in note 20. utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures.
Our conclusion The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the level of tax provisions and disclosures are appropriate.
122 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $150 million 2015: $210 million The applied materiality is approximately 6.7% of normalised 3-year average pre-tax profit 2015: 6.0%, and equates to less than 1% 2015: 1% of equity.
$m 2016 2016 Ind Asset 2016 Marketing 2015 210 150 100 90 75 10 10 Group materiality Maximum allowed Audit Committee component materiality reporting threshold Basis for determining Consistent with the methodology in the prior year, we have determined materiality materiality by using a percentage of normalised 3-year average 2014 2016 of pre-tax profits.
These normalising items are outlined in notes 3, 4 and 23 to the financial statements.
The pre-tax profits for the 2014 2016 years have been normalised in determining Rationale for the benchmark applied materiality to exclude items which, due to their nature and or expected infrequency of the underlying events, are not considered indicative of continuing operations of the Group and so do not form part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary KPIs, and which if included, would distort materiality year-on-year.
We consider this approach to be more appropriate given the nature of the mining industry which is exposed to cyclical commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a more stable base reflective of the scale of the Groups size and operations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all individual audit differences in excess of $10 million 2015:$10 million whilst retaining an internal aggregation threshold of $7.5 million, reported in aggregate to the Audit Committee, representing 5% of the Group materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 123 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these An overview of the scope of our audit in-scope components.
These detailed audit instructions Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an specified areas of audit focus, identified the risks of material understanding of the Group and its environment, including misstatement assessed by the Group audit team and set out group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
misstatement at the Group level.
Based on our continuing The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on regular physical meetings with components that has been the audit work at 45 components 2015: 51 components, designed so that the Group Audit Partner or another senior representing the Groups most material marketing member of the Group audit team periodically meets with operations and industrial assets, and utilised 21 component local management and the component audit team on a audit teams 2015: 19 component audit teams in 18 countries rotational basis.
In 2016, the Group audit team held meetings 2015: 17 countries.
29 of these were subject to a full scope audit Additionally for all in-scope components the Group audit 2015: 34components : and team was involved in the audit work performed by the 16 were subject to specified audit procedures where component auditors through a combination of our global theextent of our testing was based on our assessment planning conference call meetings, provision of referral ofthe risk of material misstatement and of the materiality instructions, review and challenge of related component of the Groups operations at those locations inter-office reporting and of findings from their work 2015: 17 components.
which included the audit procedures performed to respond The reduction in the scoping compared to 2015 is primarily to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component as a result of the restructuring of various Glencore Agri audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any related components into one full scope component in the related audit and accounting matters which arose.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation These 45 components account for 92% of the Groups net process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm assets 2015: 90%, 95% of the Groups revenue 2015: 89% our conclusion that there were no significant risks of and 89% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA 2015: 88%.
material misstatement of the aggregated financial The above mentioned reduction in Group materiality from information of the remaining components not subject 2015 did not significantly impact our assessment of audit toaudit or audit of specified account balances.
coverage because of the significant number of marketing operations and industrial asset components already within Matters on which we are required to report Group audit scope.
byexception Net assets Revenue Adequacy of explanations received and accountingrecords 5 8 1 Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 32 we have not received all the information and explanations 60 we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the 94 parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Adjusted EBITDA Coverage percentages the financial statements are not in agreement with the Full scope audit accounting records and returns.
Specified audit procedures 11 We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
6 Analytical procedures 83 124 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Corporate Governance Statement body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the that we might state to the Companys members those Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Corporate Governance Code.
report and or those further matters we have expressly We have nothing to report arising from our review.
agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Our duty to read other information in the do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than AnnualReport the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Under International Standards on Auditing UK and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, have formed.
information in the Annual Report is: Scope of the audit of the financial statements materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or in the course of performing our audit: or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the otherwise misleading.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups In particular, we are required to consider whether we have circumstances and have been consistently applied and identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant acquired during the audit and the Directors statement accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall thatthey consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read andunderstandable and whether the Annual Report all the financial and non-financial information in the appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the to the Audit Committee which we consider should have audited financial statements and to identify any information been disclosed.
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us We confirm that we have not identified any such in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware inconsistencies or misleading statements.
ofany apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA AUS Respective responsibilities of Directors for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor andauditor London, UK As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities 1 March 2017 Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 125 Financial statements Consolidated statement of income loss For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 1 US$ million Notes 2016 Restated Revenue 152,948 147,351 Cost of goods sold 149,763 144,533 Selling and administrative expenses 1,102 1,096 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 9 11 99 Gains losses on disposals and investments 3 452 994 Other expense net 4 1,589 7,928 Dividend income 27 25 Interest income 155 179 Interest expense 1,688 1,482 Loss before income taxes 549 8,379 Income tax expense credit 6 638 9 Loss for the year from continuing operations 1,187 8,370 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 23 2,123 256 Income loss for the year 936 8,114 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 443 3,150 Equity holders of the Parent 1,379 4,964 Loss per share continuing operations: Basic US$ 15 0.05 0.39 Diluted US$ 15 0.05 0.39 Earnings loss per share continuing and discontinued operations: Basic US$ 15 0.10 0.37 Diluted US$ 15 0.10 0.37 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustment made relating to discontinued operations see note 23, and therefore do not correspond to the consolidated statement of income loss for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
126 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Consolidated statement of comprehensive income loss For the year ended 31 December 2016 2015 1 US$ million Notes 2016 Restated Income loss for the year 936 8,114 Other comprehensive income loss Items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: Defined benefit plan actuarial losses gains, net of tax of $14 million 2015: $29 million 21 41 76 Discontinued operations Actuarial losses gains net of tax of $1 million 2015: $5 million 21 4 16 Net items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 45 92 Items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: Exchange gain loss on translation of foreign operations 472 1,531 Gains losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax of $5 million 2015: $42 million 99 85 Share of comprehensive loss from associates and joint ventures 9 22 Unrealised gain loss on available for sale financial instruments 9 365 488 2 Discontinued operations 43 272 Items recycled to the statement of income upon disposal of subsidiaries 3 23 602 311 Net items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 1,581 2,087 Other comprehensive income loss 1,536 1,995 Total comprehensive income loss 2,472 10,109 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 411 3,217 Equity holders of the Parent 2,883 6,892 1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the adjustment made relating to discontinued operations see note 23, and therefore do not correspond to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income loss for the year ended 31 December 2015.
2 Includes exchange gain on translation of foreign operations of $22 million 2015: loss of $264 million, gain on cash flow hedges net of tax of $21 million 2015: loss of $4 million and share of comprehensive loss from associates and joint ventures of $Nil million 2015: $4 million.
