Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc Opinion on financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion: the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 2 July 2016 and of the liquidity: groups profit for the year then ended: the disclosures on pages 43-45 that describe those risks and explain the group financial statements have been properly prepared in how they are being managed or mitigated: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement in the Directors report on page 106 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the date of approval of the financial statements: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income, whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, Consolidated to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the and Company balance sheets, Consolidated cashflow statement and the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing related Consolidated notes 1 to 28 and Company notes 1 to 18.
The attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The financial reporting framework that has been However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United going concern.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Going concern and the directors assessment of the Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance of the group with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the Managing Risk section of the strategic report on page 41.
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc Opinion on financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in In our opinion: the directors' confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 2 July 2016 and of the liquidity: groups profit for the year then ended: Rail franchise compliance and revenue recognition We have read the key elements of the franchise agreements to understand the disclosures on pages 43-45 that describe those risks and explain their critical elements, inform the audit approach and challenge the accounting As noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements section on page the group financial statements have been properly prepared in how they are being managed or mitigated: treatments adopted.
120 in respect of the three train operating companies TOCs a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement in the Directors report on page 106 to the franchise agreement details the arrangements covering entitlement We have performed a review of all significant assets, provisions and accruals, financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to to revenue, certain costs and performance conditions.
Due to the and associated revenue or costs recognised, to assess whether their recognition the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared complexity of the arrangements there is a risk that the financial adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their and quantum is appropriately stated, and whether there are any indicators that in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to statements do not appropriately reflect the correct revenue and the balances held should no longer be recognised due to the passage of time, Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the costs in terms of completeness, measurement and occurrence, changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the and or income penalties that can arise based on the actual date of approval of the financial statements: We have held meetings with each of the franchise compliance managers to requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group performance of the individual TOC under the franchise agreement.
the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the assess whether there are any new issues of non-compliance or expected nonfinancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why compliance, and whether any franchise committed obligations will not be The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to delivered.
Consolidated and Company statements of comprehensive income, whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able We have tested the schedules prepared by management to source information, Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, Consolidated to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the evaluated whether it is compliant with the franchise agreements, and tested the and Company balance sheets, Consolidated cashflow statement and the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing calculations applied including recalculation where relevant.
related Consolidated notes 1 to 28 and Company notes 1 to 18.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of We have held meetings with the Finance Directors and members of the finance We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by team to assess on a case by case basis the movements in the provisions and accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
The financial reporting framework that has been accruals, during the period under review, and challenged management both on However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is the recognition of new provisions and accruals, and also the continued this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United recognition of long standing provisions and accruals.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 We have reviewed Board minutes and Board papers to assess whether there is Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Independence inconsistency in the determination of the provisions and accruals balances or any significant judgements which have not been accounted for by management.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Going concern and the directors assessment of the Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the We have reviewed relevant legal documentation and minutes of meetings held principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Department for Transport.
of the group with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the We have reviewed the accounts disclosures to assess whether they As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the Rail provisions and accruals We gained an understanding of each significant accrual or provision, the basis of directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained estimate and the range of possible outcomes with the Finance Director and This risk relates to the incorrect valuation of contractual and within the Managing Risk section of the strategic report on page 41. relevant members of the finance team.
Where possible, we have completed a property related liabilities, in particular third party claims: and review of supporting documentation and evidence for the existence of the dilapidation provisions relating to rolling stock, depots and obligation and re-performed managements calculations.
Key judgements are the assessment of the recognition criteria in We assessed whether the provisions meet the criteria for recognition per IAS 37 and whether they have been appropriately classified as provisions or each individual circumstance and the level of the provision required as an accrual.
as noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120.
We assessed whether the third parties used to estimate relevant valuations have the appropriate experience, qualifications and knowledge of the business, and agreed the findings from their surveys into the provision.
We reviewed relevant legal documentation and correspondence with Network Rail.
Uninsured liabilities We have gained an understanding of the Groups obligations under its insurance policies with relevant members of the finance team and reviewed the This risk relates to the incorrect valuation of insurance related documents to confirm these.
liabilities, in particular uninsured liabilities relating to transport incidents.
Judgement is required in the assessment of the We have assessed the self-insurance provision to settle claims for incidents recognition criteria in each individual circumstance and the level which arose prior to the balance sheet date including those for incidents of the provision required.
incurred but not reported for completeness and accuracy through discussions held with the finance team and testing of third party reports.
The application of this accounting treatment requires significant levels of management judgement regarding the level of selfWe have gained a detailed understanding of the methodology used to calculate insurance required and the amount to provide in respect of claims the claims incurred liabilities.
We have tested the completeness of the information received and gained a The uninsured claims provision held in the Group financial detailed understanding of the approach used to determine the provision for statements at 2 July 2016 is 42.1m 41.3m as at 27 June 2015 claims incurred but not received and tested this provision against historical see note 24 and is noted in the Critical Accounting Judgements trends.
We have reviewed group and subsidiary Board minutes, Board papers and held discussions with management to identify any significant matters which should have been considered when creating the provision and to identify any inconsistencies between the minutes and our understanding from the review of provisions performed.
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
com 109 Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Accounting for pensions and related disclosure We have involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values used by managements actuaries for key assumptions at the year-end Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and are within Deloittes acceptable range with a focus on estimations of significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred provided as set out in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120. members and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in longterm assumptions year on year which could materially impact the Groups We have involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness balance sheet position.
of the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension schemes.
The franchise adjustment also requires judgement under the relevant accounting consideration IFRIC 14 and is sector specific in the case of the We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries to calculate Railway Pension Scheme.
the liabilities for the pension scheme.
The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27.
We have reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension Scheme, and the franchise adjustment applied, for compliance with the Groups accounting policy and IFRS.
We have assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements and considered their compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
Revenue recognition bus We have gained an in depth understanding of the process undertaken to recognise revenue in the bus businesses with the finance team and In the bus division the risk over revenue recognition has been focused on the associated reviews and controls performed.
whether recognising revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive Contract premiums in We evaluated the design and implementation of controls related to London Bus is appropriate.
revenue processes to identify any potential areas of risk around the correct recording of revenue.
We have performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of the key revenue balances at each in scope bus business including a focus on the Quality Incentive Contract premium income recognised in London Bus.
Last year the previous auditors report included one other risk which is An overview of the scope of our audit not included in our report this year being the carrying value of goodwill Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group which following the impairments charged in the prior year is no longer and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks considered to be a significant risk to the audit.
of material misstatement at the group level.
We have not scoped in the new overseas businesses in Singapore or Germany reflecting that these The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the were not operational or material to the Group at the balance sheet date.
significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on page 75. the audit work at 10 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses which were subject to a full audit.
The remaining 2 bus businesses were These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial subject to desktop review.
The locations in scope represent the principal statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
business units and account for 98% of the groups total assets, 99% of the groups revenue and 100% of the groups profit before tax with the Our application of materiality businesses subject to desktop review contributing an immaterial loss.
The We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than evaluating the results of our work.
group materiality and ranged from 1m to 2.34m.
We determined materiality for the group to be 3.97m, which is below At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and 5% of statutory pre-tax profit, which is considered an area of focus for the carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there users of the accounts, and below 2.5% of equity.
The previous auditor were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated determined a materiality of 4.38m using 5% of statutory pre-tax profit financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or before exceptional items as the basis.
audit of specified account balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits Committee all audit differences in excess of 78k, as well as differences that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or a below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters the group audit scope was focussed at least once every year and the most that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the significant of them at least twice a year.
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Accounting for pensions and related disclosure We have involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the used by managements actuaries for key assumptions at the year-end Given the size of the Group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and In our opinion: directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements are within Deloittes acceptable range with a focus on estimations of significant judgement is required in determining the value of the liability and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred provided as set out in the Critical Accounting Judgements on page 120. is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and members and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in longthe information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality term assumptions year on year which could materially impact the Groups We have involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to balance sheet position.
of the methodology used by managements actuaries to calculate the consistent with the financial statements.
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and liabilities for the pension schemes.
The franchise adjustment also requires judgement under the relevant applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated Matters on which we are required to report by exception accounting consideration IFRIC 14 and is sector specific in the case of the We tested the membership data utilised by the actuaries to calculate professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27.
We have reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our our opinion: Scheme, and the franchise adjustment applied, for compliance with the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys Groups accounting policy and IFRS.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors for our audit: or We have assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, and considered their compliance with the requirements of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the IAS 19 revised.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for from branches not visited by us: or this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Revenue recognition bus We have gained an in depth understanding of the process undertaken to recognise revenue in the bus businesses with the finance team and the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the In the bus division the risk over revenue recognition has been focused on Scope of the audit of the financial statements the associated reviews and controls performed.
whether recognising revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive Contract premiums in We evaluated the design and implementation of controls related to We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the London Bus is appropriate.
revenue processes to identify any potential areas of risk around the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Directors remuneration correct recording of revenue.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our We have performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made the key revenue balances at each in scope bus business including a circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in focus on the Quality Incentive Contract premium income recognised in disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to London Bus.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In report arising from these matters.
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Corporate Governance Statement annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Last year the previous auditors report included one other risk which is An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially not included in our report this year being the carrying value of goodwill Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge which following the impairments charged in the prior year is no longer and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware considered to be a significant risk to the audit.
We have not scoped in the nothing to report arising from our review.
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the new overseas businesses in Singapore or Germany reflecting that these implications for our report.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report were not operational or material to the Group at the balance sheet date.
significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on page 75. required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual the audit work at 10 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses report is: which were subject to a full audit.
The remaining 2 bus businesses were These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial subject to desktop review.
The locations in scope represent the principal statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do statements: or not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
business units and account for 98% of the groups total assets, 99% of the Christopher Powell, FCA Senior statutory auditor groups revenue and 100% of the groups profit before tax with the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Our application of materiality businesses subject to desktop review contributing an immaterial loss.
The our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial locations were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
London, United Kingdom reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in 8 September 2016 materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the evaluating the results of our work.
directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced We determined materiality for the group to be 3.97m, which is below At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses 5% of statutory pre-tax profit, which is considered an area of focus for the carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we users of the accounts, and below 2.5% of equity.
The previous auditor were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not determined a materiality of 4.38m using 5% of statutory pre-tax profit financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
before exceptional items as the basis.
110 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.
