Independent auditors report to the members ofGrainger plc only Opinions and conclusions arising pages 103 to 106 critical accounting property is tenanted.
The Directors fromour audit estimates and assumptions and are assisted in arriving at VP by the 1 Our opinion on the financial AnnualAccounts pages 126 and 127 in-house surveying team and engage statements is unmodified accounting policy and financial an external valuer to re-perform a We have audited the financial disclosures.
The external statements of Grainger plc for the year valuer also provides recommendations ended 30 September 2016 set out on The risk: for the level of discount to apply from pages 94 to 167.
In our opinion: Investment property is carried at VP to fair value.
VP and the discount fairvalue which relies on assumptions are based on data derived from the financial statements give a true which are inherently judgemental, in comparable market transactions.
and fair view of the state of the some cases unobservable and reflective Thedetermination of the appropriate Groups and of the parent companys of changing market factors.
A small data requires significant judgement.
affairs as at 30 September 2016 and adjustment in one or more of these of the Groups profit for the year assumptions could result in a material For all valuations there is a risk that thenended: change in the carrying value of inaccurate or incomplete information is the Group financial statements have investment properties.
used by the in-house surveying team or been properly prepared in accordance the external valuers in their valuation.
with International Financial Reporting The valuation approach adopted by Standards as adopted by the theDirectors varies between portfolios Our response: European Union: in order to reflect the nature of each We engaged a property valuation the parent company financial type of asset: expertto assist us in assessing the statements have been properly methodologies and key assumptions prepared in accordance with UK For the Tricomm portfolio, used in the valuations adopted Accounting Standards, including valuationis based on a discounted bytheDirectors for use in the FRS101 Reduced Disclosure cash flow model produced by an financialstatements.
There is a risk that the financial statements have the significant assumptions of house Our procedures to address the risks beenprepared in accordance with price inflation HPI and discount inrelation to the three categories of therequirements of the Companies rates are inappropriate.
property identified above included: Act 2006: and, as regards the Group For properties let into the private financial statements, Article 4 of rental market, valuation is derived The Tricomm portfolio theIAS Regulation.
byapplying a gross initial yield to comparing the key assumptions, theestimated rental value of the included in the discounted cash 2 Our assessment of risks of material property.
The yield applied is based flowmodel relating to HPI and misstatement on market evidence for comparable tomarketindices: In arriving at our audit opinion above properties and rental growth assessing discount rates against onthe financial statements the risks prospects.
Rental value is based market information including ofmaterial misstatement that had onexisting tenancy agreements, giltrates and benchmarked thegreatest effect on our audit, in condition and comparable market riskpremiums: decreasing order of audit significance, evidence.
Assessing these factors were as follows unchanged from 2015 : anddetermining the appropriate Private rented sector blocks comparable evidence involves a considering the degree of Valuation of investment properties highdegree of judgement.
comparability and the quality of investment properties 261.3m Property held in UK residential themarket evidence used by the 2015:357.8m portfolios is valued by determining valuer in determining estimated Risk vs 2015: Unchanged vacant possession value VP and rental value: and Refer to Annual Report page 55 Audit deriving fair value by applying a assessing the yield rates applied Committee report, Annual Accounts discount to reflect the fact that the through our understanding of thenature of the assets and benchmarking against market data.
90 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Property held in UK residential portfolios We compared the investment Our response: assessing the design of the valuations propertyvalue recorded in the Residential trading property process and sample testing Directors financialstatements to the independent The procedures outlined above in valuations to evaluate if they have external valuers reports and assessed relation to assessing the process for been prepared in accordance with the adequacy of the Groups disclosures thevaluation of residential portfolio theprocess: about the sensitivities and inputs to the investment properties also formed attending the regional meetings valuations in accordance with relevant partof the response to this risk.
Other between the independent external accounting standards.
procedures included: valuer and the Group, for properties where there is a variance above a set Carrying value of inventories trading comparing the value carried in the percentage between the VP from the properties 904.3m 2015:1,152.2m balance sheet with the sales price external valuer and the Directors Risk vs 2015: Unchanged achieved for a selection of property valuation.
By attending these Refer to Annual Report page 55 sales after the balance sheet date, meetings, together with our valuation AuditCommittee report, Annual and for sales throughout the year expert, we assessed the degree of Accounts pages 103 to 106 critical asa review of the past accuracy challenge, evidence presented and accounting estimates and assumptions ofthe Groups estimates: and the conclusions reached: and Annual Accounts page133 confirming the mathematical evaluating the inputs used in the accounting policy and financial accuracy of, and completeness valuations against our knowledge disclosures.
andaccuracy of inputs to, the and experience of the industry, Directors assessment and including challenging the valuations The risk: sensitisingthe assessment.
by comparison with market Trading properties are held in comparable transactions and inventoriesat the lower of cost and net Development trading property changes in industry benchmarks: and realisable value NRV.
Generally, the We performed a detailed risk assessment performing sensitivity analyses over Groups strategy is to sell trading stock at an individual development level to the identified key assumptions.
on vacancy, and therefore the NRV of identify the sites where an impairment existing residential properties is the net may be required to reduce the carrying For each separate valuation our proceeds expected on sale with vacant amount below cost.
This included procedures included testing whether possession.
An assessment of the NRV comparison of the carrying value theproperty information provided iscarried out by reference to VP which, withmarket value, estimated by the bythe Group to the independent as outlined in relation to investment independent external valuer of the site external valuers and or used by property, requires significant judgement inits current condition, based on theinhouse surveying team was to determine.
This was carriedout by assessing the key For land and property developments For sites where the intention is to inputsinthe Groups property where the intention is to sell on sellwithout further development, database, such as address, rental completion, NRV is the forecast comparing the carrying value of income, occupancy and current sellingprice less the remaining costs inventory to the market value of the tenancydetails, through a mixture toconstruct and sell.
The key risk is sitein its current condition, was one ofcontrols testing, including IT thatdevelopment inventories continue ofour key procedures in challenging controls, and agreeing inputs to to beheld at cost when an impairment NRV assessment.
Groupproperty contracts on a should be recognised, because the samplebasis.
totalforecast profits on the individual developments may be overestimated.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Independent auditors report to the members ofGrainger plc only continued For sites where the intention is to sell In addition, we applied lower materiality 4 Our opinion on other matters oncompletion, for a sample informed of 3.1 million to the specific income prescribed by the Companies Act byour risk assessment, we inspected statement items which depict the 2006 is unmodified theGroups plans and forecasts used trading performance of the Group, In our opinion: tosupport the NRV assessment, which exclude valuation movements, challenged assumptions against taxation and results of discontinued the part of the Directors thirdparty data, and against experience operations.
We believe misstatement of Remuneration report to be audited of actual costs and revenues and these specific income statement items has been properly prepared in performed sensitivity analyses to assess of a lesser amount than materiality for accordance with the Companies Act the headroom before an adjustment to the financial statements as a whole 2006: and the carrying value is required.
could reasonably be expected to the information given in the Strategic influence the Companys members report and the Directors report We also considered the adequacy assessment of the financial forthe financial year for which the oftheGroups disclosures about the performance of the Group.
financial statements are prepared degree of estimation involved before isconsistent with the financial anadjustment to the carrying value We report to the Audit Committee statements.
anycorrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.45m 2015: 5 We have nothing to report on the 3 Our application of materiality and an 0.20m, or exceeding 0.15m where disclosures of principal risks overview of the scope of our audit they relate to specific significant trading Based on the knowledge we acquired We applied materiality at the financial balances listed above, in addition to other during our audit, we have nothing statement level and a lower materiality identified misstatements that warranted material to add or draw attention to for specific significant accounts.
The reporting on qualitative grounds.
inrelation to: materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at Following the business disposals in the Directors viability statement 15.0m 2015: 4.0m, determined Germany as disclosed in Note 3, the onpage 34, concerning the principal withreference to a benchmark of Group team performed the audit of the risks, their management, and, based Grouptotal assets, of which it Group as if it was a single aggregated on that, the Directors assessment represents approximately 1% 2015: set of financial information.
The audit and expectations of the Groups 4.0m representing approximately 5% was performed using the materiality continuing in operation over the four of Group profit before tax normalised to levels set out above and covered 100% years to September 2020: or exclude non-recurring items, as of total Group revenue, Group profit the disclosures in Note 2 to the disclosed in Note 4 and averaged over before tax and total Group assets in financial statements concerning three years to reduce volatility, of 2015, we identified two components, theuse of the going concern basis 74.1m.
We concluded that determining the UK and Germany.
materiality based on total assets was component was subject to a full-scope more consistent with industry peers and audit performed to component 6 We have nothing to report in respect appropriately reflects the nature of materiality of 3.7m.
The German of the matters on which we are thebusiness.
component was subject to audit of required to report by exception specific balances and classes of Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are transactions.
German component required to report to you if, based on the materiality was 2.0m.
The UK and knowledge we acquired during our audit, German component audits covered we have identified other information in 100% of Group revenue, 100% of the Annual Report that contains a Groupprofit before tax and 100% material inconsistency with either that ofGroup total assets.
knowledge or the financial statements, amaterial misstatement of fact, or thatis otherwise misleading.
92 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements In particular, we are required to report Under the Listing Rules we are required toyou if: to review: Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor we have identified material the Directors statements, set out for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, inconsistencies between the onpages 56 and 34, in relation to Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during going concern and longer-term Chartered Accountants ouraudit and the Directors viability: and 15 Canada Square statement that they consider that the part of the Corporate Governance Canary Wharf theAnnual Report and financial Statement on page 43 relating to London statements taken as a whole is fair, theCompanys compliance with the E14 5GL balanced and understandable and eleven provisions of the 2014 UK provides the information necessary Corporate Governance Code 1 December 2016 for Shareholders to assess the specified for our review.
Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or We have nothing to report in respect the Audit Committee report ofthe above responsibilities.
doesnotappropriately address matters communicated by us Scope and responsibilities totheAudit Committee.
As explained more fully in the  Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we setout on page 86, the Directors are arerequired to report to you if, in responsible for the preparation of ouropinion: thefinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair adequate accounting records view.
A description of the scope of an havenot been kept by the parent audit of financial statements is provided company, or returns adequate for on the Financial Reporting Councils ouraudit have not been received website at www.
uk from branches not visited by us: or auditscopeukprivate.
This report is the parent company financial madesolely to the Companys members statements and the part of the as a body and is subject to important Directors Remuneration report to be explanations and disclaimers regarding audited are not in agreement withthe our responsibilities, published on accounting records and returns: or ourwebsite at www.
com uk certain disclosures of Directors auditscopeukco2014a, which are remuneration specified by law are incorporated into this report as if set out notmade: or in full and should be read to provide an we have not received all the understanding of the purpose of this information and explanations we report, the work we have undertaken require for our audit.
and the basis of our opinions.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93
