FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report To the members of Greene King plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 1 May 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the primary statements and related notes of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2016 which comprise: Group Parent company Group income statement Company balance sheet Group statement of comprehensive income Company statement of changes in equity Group balance sheet Related notes 35 to 45 to the financial statements Group cash flow statement Group statement of changes in equity Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall group materiality was 12.4m 2015: 7.8m which represents approximately 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
The increase in the materiality is primarily due to the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc Spirit during the year.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Risks of material Fair value estimates of assets and liabilities acquired in the Spirit business combination.
misstatement Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill.
Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override.
What has changed Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes in response to changes in circumstances affecting the GreeneKing plc business and impacting the group financial statements.
Since the 2015 audit we have made the following changes toour areas of focus: On 23 June 2015, the group completed the acquisition of Spirit.
As part of the acquisition accounting, accounting standards require the purchase price to be allocated between the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, resulting in the recognition of goodwill.
We have identified as an additional risk for this year the fair valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
We no longer consider the funding headroom and compliance with debt covenants as a risk of material misstatement onthe basis of the increased level of headroom over prior years, even after the acquisition of Spirit.
The risk relating to uncertain tax positions has been reduced relative to the prior year due to the agreement of the HMRC on many of the arrangements.
Our performance materiality was set to a lower threshold in 2016, largely due to the significant changes in the group through the acquisition of Spirit which increases the risks of material misstatement.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
This is not a complete list of all the risks identified in our audit.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, wedo not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these risks of material misstatements and our audit response are set out in the below table.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2015.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Fair value estimates of assets and liabilities acquired in the Spirit business combination Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 53 : accounting policies page 82 : and note 17 of the group financial New statements page 106 During the period the group acquired Spirit for We verified the appropriateness of the groups accounting As a result of the procedures a total consideration of 763m.
The acquisition fortheacquisition of Spirit including the following procedures: performed we are satisfied that is accounted for as a business combination assets and liabilities acquired are we challenged the groups preliminary estimates of fair value inrelation to which there are a number of measured at fair value in line totest their robustness, by checking completeness of the significant and complex judgments involved in with the requirements of the companys process to identify the assets acquired and liabilities the determination of the fair value of the accounting standards.
assumed, and checking internal consistency of the assumptions assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
used in the valuations, including of the brand intangible asset, We also concluded that A purchase price allocation exercise has been off-market leases and onerous contract liabilities: appropriate disclosures have performed by management, assisted by external been included in the group we obtained the groups external experts reports supporting experts.
The primary element of the valuation financial statements.
the value of the trading estate and brand intangible assets and exercise assessed the fair value of the trading used our firms valuation specialists to verify the appropriateness estate 1,419m including assets held for sale of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key and the resulting goodwill 434m.
The allocation assumptions and judgments made by the valuers: also considered the fair values of intangible assets favourable operating leases and brands, we also involved our valuation specialists to assist the audit team borrowings, off market contract liabilities, in assessing the appropriateness of the methodology and the derivative financial instruments, post-retirement assumptions applied to value the off market leases and onerous obligations and scheme assets, other assets contracts, and to independently recalculate the fair value of and liabilities and deferred tax.
secured bonds and related interest rate swaps: We have identified the fair valuation of the we checked the arithmetical accuracy of managements assets acquired and the liabilities assumed calculation of the off market liabilities, tested the adequacy ofthe asasignificant risk.
discount rates applied and agreed the future expected payments to the terms in the relevant contracts or other supporting evidence: in respect of post retirement obligations, we involved ourpensions specialists to test the reasonableness oftheassumptions applied by the groups actuaries: we evaluated the competence and independence of theexperts used by the group and our in-house experts byreference to their qualifications and experience: and we evaluated whether appropriate disclosures have been included in the group financial statements.
Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 53 : accounting policies page 82 : and note 14 of the group financial statements page 100 The group has property, plant and equipment We obtained an understanding of the groups process employed We considered the reasonableness PP&E with a net book value of 3,671m relating to identify indicators of impairment and to estimate appropriate and appropriateness of the groups to its trading estate and 1,122m of goodwill impairments of PP&E at a cash-generating unit CGU level estimates, noting that all significant as at 1 May 2016. sitelevel or goodwill at an operating segment level.
We then assumptions fell within a range tested key elements of those processes.
In particular: of acceptable outcomes.
For the trading estate, impairments are considered on a site by site basis when an we compared the profit growth rates in the cash flow As a result of the procedures impairment indicator has been identified forecasts to the budget, external market growth estimates performed, we concluded that through reduced profit performance.
For rates applied by industry peers and recent actual profit growth the groups impairment indicator goodwill, impairment is assessed at an rates over the last five year period, and corroborated analysis and impairment assessment operating segment level i. e. Pub Company explanations for any anomalies: for the groups CGUs had been Greene King, Pub Company Spirit, Pub carried out appropriately and we tested the reasonableness of the discount rate applied to Partners Greene King, Pub Partners Spirit inaccordance with the cash flows through benchmarking to comparator companies andBrewing & Brands, being the lowest accounting standards.
andmarket expectations: levelat which goodwill is monitored.
72 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Asset impairment considerations in relation to the trading estate and associated goodwill continued In assessing impairment, management estimates we reperformed the groups sensitivities applied to the cash We concur with managements the recoverable value of each site by reference flows and considered the groups judgment of how a reasonably assessment that goodwill for to the higher of its value in use based on the possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment each reportable segment is not groups key assumptions in relation to forecast based upon our knowledge of the groups activities and factors impaired and is recoverable.
profits, a growth rate and a discount rate and inthe sector: We concluded that the related fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
As we obtained an understanding of the methodology disclosures in the group financial aresult of the Spirit acquisition and the bond management applied to allocate the new Spirit goodwill to the statements are appropriate.
issue, current valuations were available upon operating segments, as well as the methodology applied for which to base the FVLCD.
The recoverable allocating goodwill to disposals, to ensure that the approach value is compared to the carrying value of taken is in line with the requirements of the applicable each site to determine any impairment.
For accounting standards: and goodwill, the group performs its impairment analysis by considering the value in use of we checked the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the theoperating segment, based on forecast impairment models.
cash flows for that segment, employing For the trading estate, additionally: consistent assumptions.
we checked on the impairment model that the sites These processes have a high degree of recoverable value is the higher of value in use and FVLCD: judgment and therefore carry a higher level of inherent risk of material error.
where the FVLCD was required to support the recoverable value of a site, we evaluated the robustness and appropriateness of the valuation methodologies and the reasonableness of key assumptions and judgments made by the experts, using our own property valuation specialists, who utilised their knowledge of property valuation and comparator transactions on a sample of the sites.
We also evaluated the competence and independence of the experts used by the group and our in-house experts byreference to their qualifications and experience: where impairment indicators existed but no impairment charge had been recognised, we sought and corroborated explanations from management on individual pubs to assess whether animpairment charge was required: and on a sample of sites where judgment has been applied todetermine the recoverable value, we have obtained and corroborated explanations from management.
We evaluated the appropriateness, sufficiency and clarity ofany impairment-related disclosures provided in the group financial statements, including the disclosure of key sensitivities.
Uncertain tax positions Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 53 : accounting policies page 82 : and note 10 of the group financial statements page 96 The group has implemented a number of We used our tax audit specialists to evaluate the groups As a result of the procedures assessment of the liability recognised.
Our work included: intra-group arrangements to finance third performed we have concluded party acquisitions and to effect other intra that the provision for uncertain agreeing the amount of the provision recognised 21.4m to group transactions.
Certain of the potential tax positions is within a range the agreement reached with the HMRC through its 'High Risk benefits from these arrangements were ofprobable outcomes of the Corporate Process' on a number of outstanding matters: under dispute by the HMRC.
with regard to Project Sussex, inspecting correspondence Subsequent to the year end, a settlement We consider the groups level withHMRC and the advice received from the groups advisers, agreement has been confirmed with the HMRC ofdisclosure in the financial and performing our own assessment of the likely outcome of in respect of the majority of legacy tax items statements is appropriate taking litigation on the basis of our experience of similar scenarios: and at 21.4m, similar to the liability recognised at into account the FRC guidance the 2015 year end and of which 9m remains recalculating the accrual for the interest on late paid corporation on this area.
tax if the group were to settle the Project Sussex liability at the amounts provided at the balance sheet date.
The uncertainty over resolution of the remaining arrangements principally an arrangement known as Project Sussex has required the directors to make judgments on the level of tax that will ultimately be paid.
The directors obtained opinions from independent advisers to help them assess the level of tax liabilityrequired.
Estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions of 10.5m 2015: 31.6m and related interest of 5.9m 2015: 13.9m are included within Income tax payable and Trade and other payables respectively.
This amount excludes the provision of 9m related to the legacy items as this is no longer considered an uncertain tax position on the basis of theagreement confirmed shortly after theyearend.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition, including fraud risks and risk of management override Risk direction Refer to the audit committee report page 53 : accounting policies page 82 : and note 3 of the group financial statements page 89 In accordance with International Standards on We obtained an understanding of the processes for the recognition As a result of the procedures Auditing UK and Ireland there is a presumed of revenue in each of the revenue streams, and separately for the performed, we have been able fraud risk relating to revenue recognition.
recognition of retrospective discounts by the group as a whole.
to conclude that revenue has been recognised in accordance We consider that there is a higher level of risk For food, liquor and accommodation sales in the Pub Company with the revenue recognition associated with the appropriate recognition division we have focused our testing on manual journals posted policy and accounting standards.
of sales in the correct accounting period on to this revenue stream.
Furthermore we have utilised data beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands analytics to agree revenue posted to cash received.
This risk is associated For beer and liquor sales in the Brewing & Brands with the accuracy and completeness of andPubPartners divisions: retrospective discounts and rebates due tothe area being more susceptible we performed detailed transaction testing by agreeing a tomanagement override.
sample of individual revenue items to sales invoices, evidence of delivery and subsequent cash receipt: For food, liquor and accommodation sales in the Pub Company division, we consider these we performed sales cut-off testing immediately before and are low risk given that the transactions are after the year end by testing sales invoices to evidence of routine, low value and high volume with no delivery to ensure that revenue had been recognised in the estimation uncertainty.
Accordingly, the fraud correct accounting period: additionally we have performed risk for such revenues is limited to journal similar detailed testing on credit notes to confirm that the entries and other adjustments made at credit note has been recognised in the appropriate accounting theend of a reporting period.
period: and we conducted specific analytical procedures on revenue and credit notes recognised either side of the year end to test managements conclusion that the related revenue had been recognised in the correct accounting period.
For retrospective customer discounts and rebates: we performed audit procedures on key customer contracts to identify complex rebate agreements and ensure that the treatment is appropriate in light of the revenue recognition policy: we agreed the nature and terms of certain significant discount arrangements to contracts or other supporting documentation and tested a sample of rebates to the specified terms, subsequent invoice and if available settlement to ensure the amounts accrued were reasonable: and we analysed the volume of distributor sales in the period before and after the year end to ensure correct cut-off.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias bythe directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together this enables us to form an opinion on the group financial statements under International Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based in the head office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading components and the corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying andassessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
PERFORMANCE REPORTING MATERIALITY MATERIALITY THRESHOLD 12.4m 6.2m 600k 74 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 12.4m 2015: 7.8m, which is set at approximately 5% 2015: 5% of pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
How we determined materiality Starting basis Adjustment Materiality Profit before tax 189.8m Excluding exceptional items 12.4m, being approximately of66.7m to determine 5%of the profit before tax theprofit before tax and andexceptional items exceptional items of 256.5m Rationale for basis We used pre-tax profit before exceptional items of 256.5m because it is a key performance indicator used in communications with investors, it is more reflective of underlying trading profitability and it is a key metric used by the group in the assessment of the performance of management.
We also note that market and analyst commentary on the group uses pre-tax profit before exceptional items as a key metric.
Therefore, in our view, we consider pre-tax profit before exceptional items to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation as we considered this to be the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability thatthe aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, the changes in the business environment resulting from the acquisition of Spirit, and the number and monetary amounts of individual uncorrected misstatements identified in prior periods as well as the nature of the misstatements, our judgment was that the overall performance materiality for the group should be 50% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.2m 2015: 5.9m.
We have set our performance materiality to a lower threshold in 2016, reflecting the significant changes in the group through the acquisition of Spirit which increases the risks of misstatement.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total ofany detected and undetected audit differences does not exceed our materiality of 12.4m for the group financial statements as a whole.
Audit work on individual components for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on apercentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the size of the component relative to the group as a whole and our assessment of risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 2.5m to 5.6m 2015: 2.3m to 5.3m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements is considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.6m 2015: 0.4m, which is set at5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 69, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements inaccordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement in the annual report which starts on page 47 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland reporting intheannual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between ourknowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement included on page 69 that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006reporting exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate forour audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report tobe audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 68, and longer-term viability, set out on pages 37: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance withtheprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidityof the entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing Ireland reporting attention to in relation to: material to add or todraw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Greene King plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination London offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
28 June 2016 76 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016
