INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREGGS PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 77 to 109.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: 3.9m 2015:3.6m Group accounts as a whole 5% 2015: 5% of Group profit before tax excluding exceptional items Coverage 100% 2015:100% of Group profit before tax excluding exceptional items Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 Recurring risks Retail property provisions Event driven Supply site investment proposals New risk 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the accounts, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Supply site Accounting treatment Our audit procedures included: investment proposals In March 2016 the Group announced a large scale Testing application: We inspected the total costs Exceptional items investment programme in manufacturing and of the programme and evaluated whether any costs excluding credits distribution operations.
The programme involves the provided for related to future services.
We critically in relation to items closure of certain supply sites and the consolidation assessed whether the restructuring provisions met the from prior years 6.8 of certain forms of manufacturing across the Group.
accounting standard criteria for recognition at the period million: 2015: nil Since the period end, the Group has communicated end, including considering the timings of proposals for the next phase of this programme communications and presence of contractual Refer to page 53 which involves further consolidating manufacturing obligations.
The phase of the programme Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy Report, page 83 to announced within the period results in the need for of the Groups disclosures in the notes to the accounts 86 accounting provisions in respect of restructuring costs.
about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at policy and pages 90, the provisions.
95 and 106 financial There is a risk that certain costs may be provided for Comparing valuations: We critically assessed disclosures.
which are future operating costs and therefore do assumptions around useful economic lives of assets with not meet the accounting standard criteria for reference to the Groups detailed plans.
There is a further risk that provisions whether the carrying value of the assets was appropriate may be recognised for which the criteria were not with reference to market indicators such as external third met as at the balance sheet date due to the party valuations or purchase offers received.
programme spanning a number of years.
Assessing application: We considered the classification of these costs as exceptional charges for the year and Subjective valuation tested that costs presented as exceptional were incurred The programme gives rise to the need to reassess as a result of the programme with reference to internal the useful economic lives of property, plant and plans and communications.
equipment and estimate the recoverable amount of assets, both of which are inherently judgemental.
Presentation appropriateness Determining whether charges should be presented as exceptional items, which affects how financial performance is reported, requires judgement and demonstration of their relation to the programme.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 74 Accounts The risk Our response Our audit procedures included: Retail property Omitted exposure provisions The Group leases the majority of its shops and has Comparisons: We identified shops closed during the year and poorly performing shops.
We compared the 5.1 million: circa 1,500 shop leases at the end of the period.
2015: 5.6 million Where shops are closed prior to the end of the lease list of shops identified to the population of onerous term or are not trading sufficiently well to recover lease provisions and challenged explanations for any Refer to page 53 the committed lease costs an element of the lease that were not provided.
Our sector experience: For onerous lease provisions Audit Committee Report, page 83 to in respect of closed shops we critically assessed the Given the large number of shops the Group leases, Directors estimate of total costs to exit the lease by 86 accounting policy and page 106 and the individual shop-level considerations challenging key assumptions including the time it would required to identify a provision, there is a risk that take to exit, the level of incentives to sublease or penalties financial disclosures not all onerous leases are identified.
to be paid to landlords and other costs to exit or sublet a shop.
We also considered the location of each closed Subjective estimate shop and the impact this may have on the time and costs Determining the level of onerous lease provisions expected to exit these leases as well as the possible involves estimation of the length of time and cost at income from subletting these shops if possible.
In respect which lease arrangements can be exited or sublet of dilapidation provisions we considered specific issues on and forecasting future cash flows, which are certain Group properties, such as the shops which inherently uncertain.
previously had in-store bakeries, and critically assessed the impact of these on the likely level of dilapidation costs.
For the majority of shop leases the Group has Benchmarking assumptions: We compared obligations to restore shops to a certain condition at assumptions surrounding the timing of exiting leases the end of a lease and provisions may be required and the costs of doing so to expectations of in-house for the costs of doing so.
Determining dilapidation property surveyors and third party agents.
We also provisions involves estimation of the costs compared these assumptions with post period end anticipated to make good any alterations to third party evidence such as offers made and sublease properties and consideration of obligations present or surrender agreements.
Both of these factors can vary Historical comparisons: For onerous leases we significantly between shops.
considered the historical experience of the Group at exiting similar properties and the costs involved in doing so.
We considered the historical experience of the Group in respect of likely level of dilapidation costs.
Assessing transparency: We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provisions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at 3.9m 2015: 3.6 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude exceptional items of which it represents five per cent 2015: determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents five per cent.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 195,000 2015: 181,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information which covered 100% 2015: 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above.
Profit before tax Materiality excluding exceptional items 3.9m 2015: 3.6m 80m 2015: 73m 3.9m Whole financial statements materiality 2015: 3.6m Profit before tax excluding The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was exceptional items a single aggregated set of financial information.
Group materiality 195k Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2015: 181k Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREGGS PLC ONLY CONTINUED 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the accounts.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the accounts and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on page 41, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures on page 82 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 41 and 82, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 45 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mick Thompson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants Quayside House 110 Quayside Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 3DX 28 February 2017 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76
