Independent Auditors Report 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of GVC Holdings PLC for Opinion on Financial Statements the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the Balance Sheet, Statement In our opinion the parent company financial statements: of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 31 December 2016: and including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body.
Our audit work Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101. has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Other Matter purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members GVCHoldingsPLC for the year ended 31 December 2016. asabody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Grant Thornton UK LLP Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Chartered Accountants As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 43, London the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements which give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and 23 March 2017 express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
