Independent Auditors Report 64 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC Our opinion on the Group financial statements What we have audited isunmodied GVC Holdings PLCs Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement In our opinion the Group financial statements: of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 theConsolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement and of its loss for the year then ended: and ofCashows and the related notes.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
theapplicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Other matters OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of GVCHoldings PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Overall Group materiality: 7.5m, which represents 4% of the Groups operating profit adjusted for share-based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, Who we are reporting to amortisation, impairment of available for sale assets and changes in the fair value This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with of derivative financial instruments clean EBITDA : the terms of our engagement dated 8 December 2016.
Our audit work has been We performed full scope audits at the key business operations in the UK, Malta, undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are Gibraltar and India: and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Key audit risks were identied as accounting for the acquisition of bwin, legaland the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, regulatory compliance, accounting for taxation, revenue recognition, and or for the opinions, we have formed.
impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Our assessment of risk In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect on our audit.
Audit risk How we responded to the risk ACCOUNTING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF BWIN The Group completed the acquisition of the entire issued and to-be-issued ordinary Our audit work included but was not restricted to: share capital of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin on 2 February 2016. comparing managements assessment of the accounting treatment of the business The impact on the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December combination, in particular the identication of the acquirer, in accordance to 2016 is disclosed in note 29. the requirements of IFRS 3 and IFRS 10.
We examined signed sales, purchase agreements, and associated contractual documents to understand the terms We identied this transaction as a risk due to the signicance of the balances involved andconditions of the transaction and to confirm managements assessment: and also due to the level of judgements and estimates required from management, particularly inrelation to: assessing the models prepared by management to value the intangible assets identied in the acquired business using our internal specialists to challenge the The identication of the acquirer, taking into account the requirements of IFRS 3 assumptions and methodology used by management: and Business Combinations and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: and assessing whether the disclosures presented in note 29 to the financial statements Identication and valuation of intangible assets and goodwill on acquisition, arein accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 and IFRS 10. andanyfair value adjustments to net assets acquired.
The Groups accounting policy on business combinations is shown in note 1 to the We therefore identied accounting for the acquisition of bwin as a significant risk financial statements and related disclosures are included in note 29. requiring special audit consideration.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry across multiple geographical Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: locations.
Each jurisdiction has laws and regulations in relation to licensing, data assessing the controls and processes in place across the Group that may assist protection, money laundering, customer identication and verication, fraud, direct intheprevention and detection of non-compliance with laws and regulations ineach andindirect taxes and other legislative matters.
ofthe geographic locations in which the Group operates: It is the responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged with holding discussions with the Groups in-house and external legal experts and governance, to ensure that the Groups operations are conducted in accordance with anassessment of policies and procedures implemented by the Groups legal the provisions of laws and regulations, including compliance with the provision of laws andcompliance functions: a review of the reports undertaken by the Groups legal and regulation that determine the reported amounts and disclosures in the Groups and external counsel and internal audit function and reviewing the controls and financial statements.
processes over new customer account set-up: We identied legal and regulatory compliance as a risk due to the importance of reviewing correspondence between the Group and regulators to ensure the compliance with laws and regulations to the operations of the Group.
completeness and accuracy of any penalties or fines recorded as a liability: and using an independent third party, as an auditors expert, to check the completeness ofthe Groups disclosures in relation to laws and regulations.
The Groups accounting policy on provisions and contingent liabilities is shown in note 1 tothenancial statements and related disclosures are included in notes 21 and 28.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 65 Audit risk How we responded to the risk ACCOUNTING FOR TAXATION The Group recognised a corporation tax credit of 0.0m, income and other Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: taxes reclaimable of 6.7m and income and other taxes payable of 65.4m at discussing with managements tax experts, with support from our tax experts, 31 December 2016. howtheGroup manages and controls the companies in countries where it operates: The Group operates in a number of countries, resulting in complexities in the payment obtaining and reading correspondence between the Group and tax authorities in order or receipt, and accounting for taxation, involving management judgement in arriving to support the tax position of the Group: at year-end tax balances.
understanding managements interpretation and application of relevant tax law We therefore identied accounting for taxation as a significant risk requiring special and challenged the appropriateness of its assumptions and estimates in relation auditconsideration.
toprovisions and contingent liabilities: and considering whether the Groups disclosures relating to taxation were in accordance with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Groups accounting policy on taxation is shown in note 1 to the financial statements andrelated disclosures are included in note 6.
REVENUE RECOGNITION The Group enters into high volumes of Net Gaming Revenue NGR generating Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: transactions each day, recorded across in-house and third party IT systems.
evaluating whether the Groups revenue recognition policies are in accordance International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland prescribe a presumed withIFRSs as adopted by the European Union: risk of fraud in revenue recognition in that revenue may be misstated through testing the operating effectiveness of controls around the relevant IT systems improper recognition.
including the Groups gaming platforms.
We reconciled data from the platforms We have therefore identied revenue recognition as a significant risk requiring special tothegeneral ledger and in reverse: and auditconsideration.
testing a sample of bets placed during the year to verify that the event relating to thebet occurred in the year, and that in the case of winning bets, the payout was correctly calculated and recorded in the customers account.
The Groups accounting policy on the recognition of revenue is shown in note 1 to the nancialstatements and the components of that income are included in note 2.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Group holds goodwill of 1,090.3m and other intangible assets of 519.1m on Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: its Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2016. performing audit procedures on all impairment models relating to material CGUs: In accordance with International Accounting Standard IAS 36, management have challenging managements assumptions used in their impairment model.
We did this performed an impairment review for goodwill and have assessed if any indicators of with reference to historical data and, where applicable, external benchmarks noting impairment exist for other intangible assets.
the assumptions used fell within an acceptable range.
We used our internal valuation We identied this area as a risk due to the signicance of the carrying value of the experts to assist with these procedures: assets and because the assessment of the recoverable amount of the Groups Cash testing the integrity of models and carried out sensitivity analysis using a range of Generating Units CGUs involves significant judgements about the future results of different assumptions: the business and the discount rates applied to future cashow forecasts.
assessing the historical accuracy of managements budgets and forecasts.
In particular, we directed our audit effort on those CGUs with the largest carrying Wecompared current performance with forecasts, and sought appropriate evidence values and those with the lowest headroom.
for any anticipated improvements in major assumptions such as growth in market We therefore identied impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets as a share or cost reductions.
We corroborated previous forecasts with actual data: and significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
considering whether the disclosures on the impairment test performed by management in the financial statements are in line with those prescribed in accounting standards.
The Groups accounting policy on impairment is shown in note 1 to the financial statements and the goodwill and impairment testing disclosures are included in note 8.
Independent Auditors Report continued 66 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its Our application of materiality and an overview of the environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material scope of our audit misstatement at the Group level.
We identied that 4 locations: United Kingdom, Materiality Gibraltar, Malta and India were significant components of the Group and these We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements were subject to a full scope audit.
For significant components, requiring a full scope that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable approach we evaluated and tested controls over the financial reporting systems person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality in determining the identied as part of our risk assessment, reviewed the accounts production process nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work.
and addressed critical accounting matters.
We determined materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements as a whole For those components that were not identied as significant components, either to be 7.5m, which is approximately 4% of the Groups operating profit adjusted for a full scope, targeted or analytical audit approach was determined based on share-based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, impairment their relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of audit risk.
Our audit of available for sale assets and changes in the fair value of derivative financial procedures covered 100% of the Groups net gaming revenue, 100% of the Groups instruments clean EBITDA.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate Clean EBITDA and 100% of the Groups net assets.
because this is a key performance measure used by the Directors to report to We used component auditors to assist with our audit under our supervision investors on the financial position of the Group.
These were a Grant Thornton International Limited network rm for Materiality for the current year is higher than the level that we determined for the the operations in Malta, and BDO LLP for the operations in Gibraltar and India.
year ended 31 December 2015 to reect that the Groups revenue has increased The Group audit team audited the operations in the UK.
Our audit was executed at signicantly in the year because of organic growth and the acquisition of bwin.
levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity and ranged from 5,600,000 to 7,500,000.
At the parent entity level, we performed audit procedures on We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent material transactions and consolidation adjustments.
of our testing and this was set at 75% of financial statement materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements.
We also determine a lower level of As the Groups parent company is based in the Isle of Man we used a Grant specic materiality for certain areas such as directors remuneration and related Thornton International Limited network member rm to check the requirements party transactions.
of local Isle of Man statute had been met in the disclosures included in the Annual Report.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 375,000.
In addition, we will communicate misstatements In the current year the Group audit team visited the operations in the UK, Gibraltar below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
and India due to their financial signicance to the Group and visited the operations in Malta in the prior year.
Overview of the scope of our audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Matters on which we are required to report by exception financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
the directors statements in relation to going concern andlonger-term viability, This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate setout on pages 43 and 33 respectively: and to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify for our review.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing information in the annual report is: the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit section otherwise misleading.
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and In particular, we are required to report to you if: appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities balanced and understandable: or in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
the annual report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 67 We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit What the directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 43, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
What we are responsible for: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Grant Thornton UK LLP Chartered Accountants London 23 March 2017
