Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HALMA PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 2 April 2016 and of the Groups profit for the 53 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and parent company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated and parent company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting on page 68 of the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Corporate Governance Report on page 68.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors' confirmation on page 68 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the accounting policies note in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 68 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The risks identified below are the same risks as identified in the prior year.
96 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 94 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill We assessed whether the CGU groups represent the lowest level At 2 April 2016, the net book value of goodwill was 544m 2015: within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 406m, the increase is due to the four acquisitions in the period.
management purposes and the appropriateness of establishing the new Sensor Technologies CGU group to allocate the goodwill Management perform an impairment review under IAS 36 arising on the CenTrak acquisition.
Impairment of Assets on an annual basis and whenever an We challenged the reasonableness of the short term growth rates indication of impairment exists.
with reference to the budgets approved by the Board, historical Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill is a significant risk due to performance and post period trading data.
the quantum of the balance and the judgements involved in setting the We assessed the long term growth rates by reference to market key assumptions and assertions used by management to support their specific GDP growth rates based on third party sources.
assessment of the carrying value.
In testing the carrying value for impairment, management has made a number of key assumptions, We performed a specific review and challenge, involving Deloittes including short-term and long-term growth rates, discount rates and valuation specialists, of the discount rates applied for each group the use of 11 2015: 10 cash generating unit CGU groups.
We assessed the Groups weighted average cost of capital and sector specific risk premiums using external input During the period, management has established a new CGU group data and benchmarking the discount rates against published in respect of Sensor Technologies, to which the goodwill arising on peer group rates.
the CenTrak acquisition has been allocated for impairment testing.
We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis on key The associated disclosure is included in note 11.
The Audit assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 72 scenarios e. g. applying further changes to discount rates and and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements forecast growth rates.
We have reviewed the disclosures made in the financial statements and assessed compliance with IAS 36.
Acquisition accounting We obtained the models for the acquisitions in the period and There were four acquisitions in the period with a total initial reviewed the opening balance sheet and fair value adjustments by consideration of 188m.
The acquisitions were Value Added reference to supporting schedules and evidence as applicable.
Solutions LLC, Firetrace USA LLC, Visiometrics S. L. and Visual Our audit of the separately identified acquired intangible assets Diagnostics Inc. together Visiometrics and CenTrak Inc.
The total focused on the assumptions in managements valuation model.
value of separable intangible assets arising on these acquisitions in We challenged the key assumptions including forecast revenues, the period is 100m.
useful life, forecast margin and discount rates utilising our internal There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in valuation specialists to support our assessment of the discount line with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
The risk relates to the rates used.
assumptions and assertions used by management to fair value the We benchmarked the output of the acquisition models, including acquired assets and liabilities, including separately identified the goodwill to intangible asset ratio, to similar prior year intangible assets, together with the determination of deferred acquisitions challenging any significant variances and considering contingent consideration at the date of acquisition.
In determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets We agreed the underlying data in the deferred contingent management use a valuation model that incorporates their consideration calculation to signed sale and purchase agreements.
assumptions in respect of forecast revenues, useful life, forecast We assessed Managements process and the assumptions used to margins and discount rates.
Management engaged third party determine the estimate of future deferred contingent consideration valuation experts to assist them in the preparation of the acquisition payable including a comparison of forecast trading performance accounting for the Firetrace acquisition.
against historical and post-acquisition financial results.
Given the There is a maximum amount of potential deferred contingent dependence on future trading we have also considered the consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Visiometrics of disclosures in respect of this.
Significant judgement has been applied by Management in We assessed managements treatment of deferred contingent establishing their best estimate of the liability which is 21m based on consideration payments as additional purchase consideration a risk weighted assessment of the forecast future performance of the as opposed to post-acquisition remuneration by reviewing the acquired business.
terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreements SPA.
Details of the acquisitions are disclosed in note 24 to the accounts.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 72 and it is included in the key accounting estimates and judgements on page 110.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc continued Defined benefit pension scheme assumptions We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the assumptions At 2 April 2016 the net retirement benefit liability recognised in the applied in accounting for the defined benefit pension liability and Consolidated Balance Sheet related to the Groups defined benefit determined whether the key assumptions are reasonable.
included reviewing available yield curves and inflation data to recalculate a reasonable range for the key assumptions.
There is a risk relating to judgements made by management in valuing the defined benefit pension schemes including the use of We challenged management to understand the sensitivity of key model input assumptions such as discount rates, mortality changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates assumptions and inflation rates.
These variables can have a that could be used in their calculation.
We discussed the output of material impact in calculating the quantum of the retirement sensitivity analysis with management and their third party actuarial benefit liability.
Additionally we benchmarked key assumptions against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used.
Management utilise the services of third party actuarial advisers to determine their key assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key Details of the defined benefit pension scheme are disclosed in note assumptions.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 72.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.3m 2015: 6.6m, which is 5% 2015: 5% of statutory pre-tax profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 365,000 2015: 132,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This threshold has been increased in the current period based on our assessment of what constitutes a clearly trivial audit difference.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
98 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 96 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 53 out of 98 trading entities 2015: 52 out of 88.
The increase in the total trading entities was a result of the acquisitions in the period.
51 2015: 47 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 3 2015: 5 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The full scope and specified audit procedures entities represent the principal business units and account for 68% 2015: 70% of the Groups revenue, 77% 2015: 73% of the Groups profit before tax and 80% 2015: 78% of the Groups net assets.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 54 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 15,000 to 1,972,000 2015: 42,000 to 976,000.
The Group audit team have established a programme of planned component visits based on their risk assessment.
As a minimum, each year a senior member of the Group audit team will visit the significant components defined as contributing greater than 10% of Group profit or revenue, of which only Apollo UK met this criterion in the period, in addition to visiting the US component auditor and selected US components.
Furthermore all 27 UK components are directly overseen by the Group engagement partner or Group director.
In years when we do not visit a component that is in scope, we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
These procedures also included, at a minimum, obtaining the bank reconciliations and statements for all entities above a 365,000 threshold.
For a selection of relevant entities, based on a risk threshold criteria, we also performed revenue cut off, subsequent cash receipt and inventory provision tests necessary to conclude on these balances.
Revenue Profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope and Full audit scope and Full audit scope and specified procedures audits 68% specified procedures audits 77% specified procedures audits 80% Review at Group level 32% Review at Group level 23% Review at Group level 20% Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 97 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc continued OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
100 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 98 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nigel Thomas Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 14 June 2016 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 99
