Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures Report of Independent Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited OUR OPINION ON THE OVERVIEW OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT APPROACH In our opinion: Risks of material misstatement the consolidated financial statements of Investment Valuation HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited Audit scope the Company and its subsidiaries We performed an audit of the complete together the Group give a true and consolidated financial statements of fair view of the state of the Groups HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited affairs as at 31 January 2016 and of for the year ended 31 January 2016 its profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements Materiality have been properly prepared in Overall materiality of 26.7 million accordance with United States Generally which represents 2% of Net Assets Accepted Accounting Principles: and the consolidated financial statements OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF have been prepared in accordance MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT with the requirements of the Companies We identified the risk of material misstatement Guernsey Law, 2008 the Companies described below as that which had the greatest Law.
effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation What we have audited of resources in the audit and the direction of the HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limiteds efforts of the audit team.
In addressing this risk, financial statements comprise: we have performed the procedures below which Consolidated statements of assets and were designed in the context of the financial liabilities as at 31 January 2016 statements as a whole and, consequently, we do Consolidated statements of operations not express any opinion on this individual area.
for the year ended 31 January 2016 Consolidated statements of changes in net assets for the year ended 31 January 2016 Consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended 31 January 2016 Consolidated schedule of investments as at 31 January 2016 Related Notes 1 to 11 to the consolidated financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
75 Risk Our response to the risk Investment Valuation Our response comprised the performance of 2016: $1,129,487,543, 2015: $1,198,939,130 the following: We obtained the most recent audited Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 72 : financial statements of each investee entity.
Accounting policies page 90 : and For over 95% of investments these financial Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial statements were for the year to 31 December Statements page 93 2015.
We inspected the audited financial Risk that the valuation of the Groups investments statements, in particular the audit opinion to at 31 January 2016, which comprise 84% of ensure it was not qualified, and the valuation net assets, is materially misstated.
accounting policies, managements estimates Valuations are based on the most recent audited and judgments and fair value disclosures, in financial statements of each investment adjusted order to satisfy ourselves that the financial to take account of changes between the date of statements were prepared on an appropriate those financial statements and 31 January 2016. fair value basis and we agreed the audited net These adjustments require management judgment.
asset value to the Groups calculation of fair value at 31 December 2015: We tested the roll forward of valuations from 31 December 2015 to 31 January 2016 by agreeing drawdowns and distributions to supporting documentation from investee entities: re-performing management fee and foreign currency translation calculations and agreeing exchange rates to independent sources: agreeing market price changes for investments held by investee entities to independent publicly available sources and checking updated valuation calculations for directly held investments.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee We confirmed that there were no material matters arising from our audit work that we wanted to bring to the attention of the Audit Committee.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope and the allocation of work between the audit team and internal valuation specialists.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Financial Statements.
We adopted a risk-based approach in determining our audit strategy.
This approach focuses audit effort towards the risk areas, such as investment valuations.
The audit was led from Guernsey and utilised audit team members from the Boston office of Ernst & Young LLP in the U. S. We operated as an integrated audit team across the two jurisdictions and we performed audit procedures and responded to the risk identified as described above.
The Group comprises the Company and its four wholly owned subsidiaries as explained in Note 2 to the financial statements.
The Company, each subsidiary and the consolidation are subject to full scope audit procedures.
The subsidiaries own the investments, which are set out in the consolidated schedule of investments, and on which we performed our work on valuation.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
76 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures During the course of our audit, we reassessed Scope of the audit of the initial materiality and noted no factors leading us financial statements to amend materiality levels from those originally An audit involves obtaining evidence about determined at the audit planning stage.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable asMateriality surance that the financial statements are free Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or from material misstatement, whether caused by misstatement that, individually or in aggregate, fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: could reasonably be expected to influence the whether the accounting policies are appropriate economic decisions of the users of Financial Stateto the Groups circumstances and have been ments.
Materiality provides a basis for determining consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall We determined materiality for the Group to be presentation of the financial statements.
In 26.7 million 2015: 25.3 million, which is 2% addition, we read all the financial and non-finan- 2015: 2% of Net Assets.
We used Net Assets cial information in the Annual Report to identify as a basis for determining materiality because material inconsistencies with the audited finanthe Companys primary performance measures cial statements and to identify any information for internal and external reporting are based that is apparently materially incorrect based on, on net assets.
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Performance materiality acquired by us in the course of performing the Performance materiality is the application of audit.
If we become aware of any apparent materiality at the individual account or balance material misstatements or inconsistencies we level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an consider the implications for our report.
appropriately low level the probability that the Respective responsibilities of aggregate of uncorrected and undetected directors and auditor misstatements exceeds materiality.
As explained more fully in the Directors On the basis of our risk assessments, together Responsibilities Statement set out on page 69, with our assessment of the Groups overall conthe directors are responsible for the preparation trol environment, our judgment was that perforof the financial statements and for being satmance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our isfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our planning materiality, namely 20.1 million 2015: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 19.0 million.
on the financial statements in accordance with We have set performance materiality at this applicable law and International Standards on percentage due to our previous experience Auditing U. K. and Ireland.
Those standards and limited identification of audit findings in require us to comply with the Auditing Practices previous periods.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys Reporting threshold members, as a body, in accordance with An amount below which identified misstateSection 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, ments are considered as being clearly trivial.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We agreed with the Audit Committee that we that we might state to the Companys members would report to them all uncorrected audit those matters we are required to state to them differences in excess of 1.35 million 2015: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
1.27 million, which is set at 5% of planning To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do materiality, as well as differences below that not accept or assume responsibility to anyone threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting other than the Company and the Companys on qualitative grounds.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
77 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs U. K. We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and We have no and Ireland non-financial information in the annual report is: exceptions reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited to report.
financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
The We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Companies adequate accounting records have not been kept by the exceptions Guernsey parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have to report.
Law 2008 not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review the directors statement in relation to going concern, exceptions requirements set out on page 67 and longer-term viability, set out to report.
on page 67: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
78 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs U. K. We are required to give a statement as to whether we have We have and Ireland anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing material reporting the directors confirmation in the annual report that they to add or have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks to draw facing the entity, including those that would threaten its attention to.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Michael Bane for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey, Channel Islands 27 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
79 Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group, which comprise the Consolidated Statements of Assets and Liabilities as at 31 January 2016, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Schedule of Investments and the related Notes 1 to 11 to the financial statements.
MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in conformity with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles U. S. GAAP : this includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Companys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
OPINION In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited at 31 January 2016, and the results of its operations, changes in net assets attributable to non-equity shareholders and equity, and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Ernst & Young LLP Guernsey 27 May 2016 80 HVPE 2016 Annual Report
