HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 93 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Statements of Cash Flows for the year REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL the European Union and as applied in then ended: STATEMENTS accordance with the provisions of the the Consolidated and Parent Company Companies Act 2006: and Statements of Changes in Equity for the OUR OPINION the financial statements have been year then ended: and prepared in accordance with the the notes to the financial statements, which In our opinion: requirements of the Companies Act include a summary of significant accounting Hargreaves Lansdown plcs Group 2006 and, as regards the Group financial policies and other explanatory information.
financial statements and parent company statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial statements the financial Certain required disclosures have been statements give a true and fair view of presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial the state of the Groups and of the parent WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED statements.
These are cross-referenced from companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and the financial statements and are identified of the Groups profit and the Groups and The financial statements, included within the as audited.
the parent companys cash flows for the Report and Financial Statements the Annual year then ended: Report, comprise: The financial reporting framework that the Group financial statements have the Consolidated and Parent Company has been applied in the preparation of the been properly prepared in accordance Statements of Financial Position as at 30 financial statements is IFRSs as adopted with International Financial Reporting June 2016: by the European Union, and applicable law Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Consolidated Income Statement and and, as regards the parent company financial European Union: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive statements, as applied in accordance with the the parent company financial statements Income for the year then ended: provisions of the Companies Act 2006. have been properly prepared in the Consolidated and Parent Company OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 10.9 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 18 reporting units, nine of which are dormant.
We perform a full scope audit of the complete financial information of two individually financially Audit scope significant reporting units, which together represent 97% of the Groups profit before tax.
Specific procedures were also performed on a further three reporting units to audit stockbroking settlement receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents, shares held by the employee benefit trust EBT and the EBT reserve.
focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with that involved making assumptions and the greatest effect on our audit, including International Standards on Auditing UK and considering future events that are inherently the allocation of our resources and effort, Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
As in all of our audits we also are identified as areas of focus in the table addressed the risk of management override below.
We have also set out how we tailored We designed our audit by determining of internal controls, including evaluating our audit to address these specific areas in materiality and assessing the risks of material whether there was evidence of bias by the order to provide an opinion on the financial misstatement in the financial statements.
In Directors that represented a risk of material statements as a whole, and any comments we particular, we looked at where the Directors misstatement due to fraud.
make on the results of our procedures should made subjective judgements, for example in be read in this context.
This is not a complete respect of significant accounting estimates The risks of material misstatement that had list of all risks identified by our audit.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus ASSET AND TRANSACTION BASED REVENUE STREAMS REVENUE RECOGNITION REFER TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, REVENUE RECOGNITION To address the risk identified in the asset and transaction based revenue streams calculated by the SECTION OF NOTE 2, AND NOTE 4 underlying administration system, we independently reperformed the calculation of 93% of the asset and We focus on revenue recognition because it is material transaction based revenue streams recognised in the two in-scope reporting units based on data extracted and is an important determinant of the Groups from the administration system.
In order to rely on the data extracted, we: There are incentive schemes in place for Directors and staff which are in part based on the Groups revenue reconciled transactional data provided from opening positions through to closing positions of individual performance, and certain share schemes for senior securities held: and management with earnings per share performance tested a sample of transactions to supporting documentation such as customer instructions and a conditions.
As in any organisation where there are sample of security positions to stock reconciliations and external sources such as fund manager incentives based on performance, there is an inherent statements.
risk of fraud in revenue recognition as there is an incentive to overstate revenue.
Revenue may also This testing provided sufficient evidence for us to determine that the data extracted was reliable for the be misstated due to errors in system calculations or purposes of performing the recalculations.
We tested the inputs of our recalculations by agreeing standing manual processes.
data, such as fee structures, commission rates and security prices, to supporting evidence on a sample basis.
We have assessed each revenue stream for the two No exceptions were noted from testing the standing data.
in-scope reporting units and determined that there is a On the basis of this testing, we determined that it was appropriate for us to use the standing data in order significant risk in each of the revenue streams.
The risk to perform our independent recalculation of each of the revenue streams.
We compared our independent is dependent upon the opportunity for errors to occur recalculations to the amount reported and noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no or for management to commit fraud.
Our assessment of further investigation.
the risks for each revenue type is as follows: We tested the remaining 7% of asset and transaction based revenue on a sample basis, agreeing each revenue item sampled back to supporting documentation.
Type of revenue Description, including fraud risk factors Asset and These revenue streams are either MANUALLY CALCULATED REVENUE STREAMS transaction based calculated based on the value of revenue streams assets held or are based on activities Management fees relating to Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds calculated by undertaken by the customer, such as the underlying stockbroking or transferring assets to We agreed 100% of the revenue through to cash received in bank statements and manually recalculated the administration other platform providers.
We noted differences that, in our view, were trivial and required no further investigation.
system The value of securities and all Renewal income customer activities is held in the Interest income on client money underlying administration system Management fees which supports the Vantage and On a sample basis we manually recalculated the gross interest earned on client money based on records on SIPP and ISAs PMS platforms.
The rates are derived from the standard rate tables or from maintained by management, and tested these records by agreeing a sample of deposits and interest rates to Platform fees agreements with fund groups.
documentation received from the relevant bank.
Stockbroking Unauthorised changes to, or errors commission Using data auditing techniques, we recalculated the amount of interest paid to clients using the daily cash in, these inputs could lead to balance as recorded in the underlying administration system, and standard rates.
To rely on the cash data misstatement of revenue.
Other income extracted from the system, we tested a sample of cash payments and receipts to supporting documentation and the cash balance at 30 June 2016 to client money reconciliations which we have tested.
In addition, we Revenue streams Two in-scope revenue streams are agreed a sample of rates to those communicated to customers.
manually manually calculated by management: calculated by the Multi-Manager fund Annual No exceptions were noted from our testing of cash movements, or testing of the rates communicated management Management Charges AMCs and interest on client money.
to customers and, on this basis, we determined that it was appropriate for us to use this data in order Management to perform our independent recalculation of interest paid to clients.
We compared our independent fees relating The AMCs are manually calculated by recalculation of interest paid to clients to the amount reported and noted differences that, in our view, were to Hargreaves management based on the net asset Lansdown Multivalue of funds provided by Northern trivial and required no further investigation.
Manager funds Trust, an independent third party, and the published AMC rate.
Interest income on ALL REVENUE STREAMS client money Gross interest on client money is calculated by management based on the As part of our testing described above, we ensured revenue was recognised in the correct period.
deposit balance and the rate agreed with the bank.
The interest recognised In addition, we performed risk based target testing of journals posted into the general ledger.
This included within revenue is net of a proportion identification of those journals posted to revenue which did not follow the expected posting pattern as this of the gross interest which is due to could be indicative of fraud or error.
For those journals identified, we understood the nature of the journal customers.
The interest due to customers is calculated by the underlying and agreed the appropriateness of the journal with reference to supporting documentation.
No exceptions administration system based on rate were noted.
tables and client cash balances.
Finally we reviewed the revenue accounting policies disclosed in note 2 of the Group financial statements to As a result, misstatement of revenue ensure that they are consistent with accounting standards.
could arise from fraudulently manipulating manual calculations, spreadsheet errors or unauthorised changes to interest rates paid to customers.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 95 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE MATERIALITY information.
An entity was considered to be financially significant if it contributed more We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure than 5% of consolidated profit before tax.
The scope of our audit was influenced by that we performed enough work to be able to our application of materiality.
We set certain give an opinion on the financial statements In addition, we determined that there were quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, as a whole, taking into account the structure three entities which required an audit of together with qualitative considerations, of the group, the accounting processes and specific account balances, being stockbroking helped us to determine the scope of our audit controls, and the industry in which the Group settlement receivables and payables, cash and the nature, timing and extent of our audit operates.
and cash equivalents and shares held by the procedures on the individual financial statement EBT and the EBT reserve.
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the The Group financial statements are a effect of misstatements, both individually and consolidation of 18 separate legal entities.
All of the audit work was performed by the on the financial statements as a whole.
There are six main subsidiaries, two Group engagement team in the UK as all of which we consider to be financially books and recorded were available at one Based on our professional judgement, we significant reporting units and on which we location.
The Group does not make use of a determined materiality for the financial performed an audit of their complete financial shared service centre.
statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 10.9 million 2015: 9.95 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied As the Group is profit orientated, we have calculated materiality with reference to profit before tax.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was 0.2 million - 9.8 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required them to do so, for at least one year from the we would report to them misstatements to report to you if we have anything material date the financial statements were signed.
identified during our audit above 540,000 to add or to draw attention to in relation As part of our audit we have concluded that 2015: 497,000 as well as misstatements to the Directors statement about whether the Directors use of the going concern basis below that amount that, in our view, they considered it appropriate to adopt the is appropriate.
However, because not all warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
going concern basis in preparing the financial future events or conditions can be predicted, statements.
We have nothing material to add these statements are not a guarantee as to or to draw attention to.
the Groups and parent companys ability to GOING CONCERN continue as a going concern.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Under the Listing Rules we are required to Directors have concluded that it is appropriate review the Directors statement, set out on to adopt the going concern basis in preparing page 91, in relation to going concern.
The going concern have nothing to report having performed our basis presumes that the Group and parent review.
company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 92, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 60, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Directors confirmation on page 36 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or to draw attention of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the to.
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to draw attention managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 91 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or to draw attention of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period to.
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 97 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS the overall presentation of the financial RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RECEIVED THE AUDIT We primarily focus our work in these areas Under the Companies Act 2006 we are by assessing the Directors judgements required to report to you if, in our opinion: OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF against available evidence, forming our own THE DIRECTORS judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in we have not received all the information the financial statements.
and explanations we require for our audit: As explained more fully in the Statement of or Directors responsibilities set out on page We test and examine information, using adequate accounting records have not 92, the Directors are responsible for the sampling and other auditing techniques, to been kept by the parent company, or preparation of the financial statements and the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
returns adequate for our audit have not for being satisfied that they give a true and We obtain audit evidence through testing been received from branches not visited fair view.
the effectiveness of controls, substantive by us: or procedures or a combination of both.
the parent company financial Our responsibility is to audit and express statements and the part of the Directors an opinion on the financial statements in In addition, we read all the financial and Remuneration Report to be audited are accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK non-financial information in the Annual not in agreement with the accounting & Ireland.
Those standards require us to Report to identify material inconsistencies records and returns.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards with the audited financial statements and to Ethical Standards for Auditors.
identify any information that is apparently We have no exceptions to report arising from materially incorrect based on, or materially this responsibility.
This report, including the opinions, has inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired been prepared for and only for the parent by us in the course of performing the audit.
If companys members as a body in accordance we become aware of any apparent material DIRECTORS REMUNERATION with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We the implications for our report.
Directors remuneration report - do not, in giving these opinions, accept or Companies Act 2006 opinion assume responsibility for any other purpose Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion, the part of the Directors or to any other person to whom this report is for and on behalf of  Remuneration Report to be audited has been shown or into whose hands it may come save LLP properly prepared in accordance with the where expressly agreed by our prior consent Companies Act 2006. in writing.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL required to report to you if, in our opinion, STATEMENTS INVOLVES 6 September 2016 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have An audit involves obtaining evidence about The maintenance and integrity of the no exceptions to report arising from this the amounts and disclosures in the financial Hargreaves Lansdown plc website is the responsibility.
statements sufficient to give reasonable responsibility of the Directors: the work assurance that the financial statements are carried out by the auditors does not Corporate governance statement free from material misstatement, whether involve consideration of these matters Under the Listing Rules we are required to caused by fraud or error.
This includes an and, accordingly, the auditors accept no review the part of the Corporate Governance assessment of: responsibility for any changes that may Statement relating to ten further provisions have occurred to the financial statements of the Code.
We have nothing to report whether the accounting policies are since they were initially presented on the having performed our review.
appropriate to the Groups and the parent website.
companys circumstances and have been Legislation in the United Kingdom consistently applied and adequately governing the preparation and disclosed: dissemination of financial statements the reasonableness of significant may differ from legislation in other accounting estimates made by the jurisdictions.
Directors: and HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 99 ANNUAL REPORT 2016
