Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC been applied in the preparation of the parent the directors explanation on pages 42 Opinion on financial statements of Hays plc Company financial statements is applicable and 43 as to how they have assessed the In our opinion: law and United Kingdom Accounting prospects of the Group, over what period the financial statements give a true and Standards United Kingdom Generally they have done so and why they consider fair view of the state of the Groups and Accepted Accounting Practice, including that period to be appropriate, and their of the parent Companys affairs as at FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
statement as to whether they have a 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit reasonable expectation that the Group for the year then ended: Going concern and the directors will be able to continue in operation the Group financial statements have assessment of the principal risks that and meet its liabilities as they fall due been properly prepared in accordance would threaten the solvency or liquidity over the period of their assessment, with International Financial Reporting of the Group including any related disclosures drawing Standards IFRSs as adopted by the As required by the Listing Rules we have attention to any necessary qualifications European Union: reviewed the directors statement regarding or assumptions.
the parent Company financial statements the appropriateness of the going concern have been properly prepared in basis of accounting contained within note 2b We agreed with the directors adoption of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, to the financial statements and the directors going concern basis of accounting and we did including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure statement on the longer-term viability of the not identify any such material uncertainties.
Framework: and Group contained within the Strategic Report However, because not all future events or the financial statements have been on pages 42 and 43. conditions can be predicted, this statement is prepared in accordance with the not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to requirements of the Companies Act 2006 We have nothing material to add or draw continue as a going concern.
and, as regards the Group financial attention to in relation to: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the directors confirmation on page 89 Independence that they have carried out a robust We are required to comply with the Financial The financial statements comprise the assessment of the principal risks facing Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Consolidated Income Statement, the the Group, including those that would Auditors and we confirm that we are Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive threaten its business model, future independent of the Group and we have Income, the Consolidated and Parent performance, solvency or liquidity: fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated the disclosures on pages 42 to 45 that accordance with those standards.
We also Statement of Changes in Equity, the describe those risks and explain how confirm we have not provided any of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the they are being managed or mitigated: prohibited non-audit services referred to related notes 1 to 35 for the Consolidated the directors statement in note 2b to the in those standards.
financial statements and the related notes financial statements about whether they 1 to 15 for the parent Company financial considered it appropriate to adopt the Our assessment of risks of material statements.
The financial reporting going concern basis of accounting in misstatement framework that has been applied in preparing them and their identification of The assessed risks of material misstatement the preparation of the Group financial any material uncertainties to the Groups described below are those that had the statements is applicable law and IFRSs ability to continue to do so over a period greatest effect on our audit strategy, the as adopted by the European Union.
The of at least 12 months from the date of allocation of resources in the audit and financial reporting framework that has approval of the financial statements: directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We have: Debtor and accrued income recoverability assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the monitoring The recoverability of trade receivables, of recoverability: accrued income and the level of provisions for challenged management regarding the level and ageing of receivables and accrued bad debts are considered to be a significant income, along with the consistency and appropriateness of receivables and accrued risk due to the pervasive nature of these income provisioning by assessing recoverability with reference to cash received in respect balances to the financial statements, and the of debtors and billings raised against accrued income.
In addition we have considered the importance of cash collection with reference Companys previous experience of bad debt exposure, the individual counter-party credit to the working capital management of the risk, the level of provision held by other recruitment businesses and the general economic business.
At 30 June 2016, the total receivables and accrued income balances environment in each jurisdiction: net of provisions included in note 17 was critically assessed the recoverability of overdue unprovided debt with reference 695.8 million 2015: 558.9 million.
to the historical levels of bad debt expense and credit profile of the counter-parties: tested these balances on a sample basis through agreement to post period end invoicing, Refer to the provisions in respect of post period end cash receipt or agreement to the terms of the contract in place, as recoverability of trade receivables critical appropriate: and accounting judgment and note 17 to the considered the consistency of judgments regarding the recoverability of trade financial statements for further detail.
receivables and accrued income made year on year to consider whether there is evidence of management bias through discussion with management on their rationale and obtaining evidence to support judgment areas.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 93 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition We have: The key risks on revenue recognition are: assessed the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls cut-off where revenue is not recognised in around all streams of revenue recognised: line with Group policy, which is to recognise considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off adjustments processed revenue associated with temporary by considering the start date of permanent placements and the term of a temporary placement with reference to the year end date: placements over the period that temporary evaluated whether revenue has been recognised in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue workers are provided, and permanent and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing details of the Group revenue recognition placements on the start date: and policy, the application of this, and any significant new contracts: and the presentation of revenue from confirmed that all material temporary worker contractual arrangements where Hays temporary placements where Hays acts acts as a principal and maintains the majority of the risk and rewards associated with the as a principal and revenue is recognised underlying agreement have been recognised and presented on a gross revenue basis in and presented on a gross rather than the financial statements.
The risks noted above in relation to revenue are areas that can involve management judgment, therefore they are considered to be significant risks.
Refer to the revenue recognition critical accounting judgment in note 3 to the financial statements for further detail.
Goodwill impairment We have: The total goodwill balance at 30 June 2016 assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the impairment was 220.4 million 2015: 198.4 million.
review process: performed a detailed review and challenge of the models used including the Management is required to carry out an macroeconomic assumptions used: annual impairment test.
This process is compared key assumptions including discount rates and growth rates used across the complex and highly judgmental given the Group, used in the model to external data and, where possible, to information provided indefinite nature of the goodwill.
It is based by Deloitte Valuations experts: on assumptions about future growth and assessed the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by comparison to historical discount rates, which can be sensitive performance and future outlook: particularly in certain jurisdictions where the performed sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, including discount rates adopted: and growth rates are typically linked to individual performed a detailed review of the disclosures in respect of impairments and impairment country GDP and country wage inflation.
Therefore, a risk exists that goodwill is overstated on the balance sheet should any judgments or assumptions be considered inappropriate.
Refer to the goodwill impairment critical accounting judgment and note 13 to the financial statements for further detail.
Pension accounting We have: Pension accounting is complex and contains assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the pension accounting: areas of significant judgment, notably the assessed the actuarial assumptions discount rate, inflation rates, and mortality discount and inflation rates and demographic assumptions adopted by the Group for the valuation of its retirement benefit assumptions used in the valuation of the obligations, with specific focus on changes to demographic assumptions and rates net liability.
Therefore, a risk exists that in the year: inappropriate assumptions are used resulting utilised internal specialists to consider these assumptions and benchmarked them in an inaccurate pension valuation at year-end.
against a relevant comparator group: reviewed the pension scheme liability.
Whilst the scheme is currently in a net deficit The net pension liability balance at 30 June position, the net pension liability recognised is lower than the present value of future 2016 was 14.3 million 2015: 58.7 million.
contributions to fund the existing deficit.
In order to assess whether an additional liability The net pension liability recognised is lower would need to be recognised, we reviewed the pension scheme trust documents than the present value of future contributions to assess whether Hays has an unconditional right to any scheme surplus: and to fund the existing deficit.
reviewed the disclosures made in note 22 and compared these to the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Refer to the pension accounting critical accounting judgment and note 22 to the financial statements for further detail.
Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit At the parent entity level we also tested Last year our report included one other risk the consolidation process and carried which is not included in our report this year: Net fees out analytical procedures to confirm our acquisition accounting in respect to the conclusion that there were no significant acquisition of Veredus the acquisition 1.
3. risks of material misstatement of the accounting period has now ended and 2. aggregated financial information of the we no longer see this as a specific risk area.
remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues The Group audit team continued to follow considered by the Audit Committee discussed a programme of planned visits that has on pages 61 and 62. been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group These matters were addressed in the context audit team visits each of the material of our audit of the financial statements as a locations where the Group audit scope whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, was focused at least once every two years.
and we do not provide a separate opinion 1.
Full scope audit 90% During the 2016 audit, the Senior Statutory on these matters.
2. specified procedures 2% Auditor visited the UK, Australia and Hong 3.
In addition, senior members of the Our application of materiality audit team visited Germany and the USA.
We define materiality as the magnitude of In years when we do not visit a significant misstatement in the financial statements profit before tax component we will include the component that makes it probable that the economic 2. decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable audit team in our team planning and risk 1.
3. person would be changed or influenced.
briefing, discuss their risk assessment, We use materiality both in planning the participate in the close meeting and scope of our audit work and in evaluating review documentation of the findings the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group Opinion on other matters prescribed by to be 8.0 million 2015: 7.4 million, which is the Companies Act 2006 approximately 5% 2015: 5.0% of profit before In our opinion: tax, and below 3% 2015: 3% of equity.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Profit before tax has been selected as the prepared in accordance with the basis for materiality as this is the measure Companies Act 2006: and by which key stakeholders and the market 1.
Full scope audit 95% the information given in the Strategic assess the performance of the Group.
2. specified procedures 1% Report and the Directors Report for 3.
Head o ce review 4% the financial year for which the financial We agreed with the Audit Committee that statements are prepared is consistent we would report to the Committee all audit with the financial statements.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining differences in excess of 160,000 2015: an understanding of the Group and its 150,000, as well as differences below environment, including Group-wide that threshold that, in our view, warranted controls, and assessing the risks of material reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also misstatement at the Group level.
Based on report to the Audit Committee on disclosure that assessment, we focused our Group audit matters that we identified when assessing scope primarily on the audit work at 32 the overall presentation of the financial 2015: 33 locations.
subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 13 2015: 14 were subject to an audit of specified account balances specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups three reportable segments and account for 90% 2015: 90% of the Groups net fees and 95% 2015: 92% of profit before tax.
The three key locations are Australia APAC, Germany CE&RoW and UK UK & Ireland which account for 70% of net fees and 81% of profit before tax.
Our audit work at the 32 locations were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 1.3 million to 5.0 million 2015: 1.2 million to 4.7 million.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 95 In particular, we are required to consider Scope of the audit of the financial statements Matters on which we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies An audit involves obtaining evidence about by exception between our knowledge acquired during the the amounts and disclosures in the financial Adequacy of explanations received and audit and the directors statement that they statements sufficient to give reasonable accounting records consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced assurance that the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are and understandable and whether the Annual free from material misstatement, whether required to report to you if, in our opinion: Report appropriately discloses those matters caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information that we communicated to the Audit Committee assessment of: whether the accounting and explanations we require for our audit: which we consider should have been disclosed.
policies are appropriate to the Groups or We confirm that we have not identified any and the parent Companys circumstances adequate accounting records have not such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
and have been consistently applied and been kept by the parent Company, or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of directors significant accounting estimates made by the been received from branches not visited and Auditor directors: and the overall presentation of the by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors financial statements.
In addition, we read all the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting Responsibilities Statement, the directors are the financial and non-financial information records and returns.
responsible for the preparation of the financial in the Annual Report to identify material statements and for being satisfied that they inconsistencies with the audited financial We have nothing to report in respect of give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is statements and to identify any information these matters.
to audit and express an opinion on the financial that is apparently materially incorrect based statements in accordance with applicable law on, or materially inconsistent with, the Directors remuneration and International Standards on Auditing UK knowledge acquired by us in the course of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also and Ireland.
We also comply with International performing the audit.
If we become aware required to report if in our opinion certain Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
of any apparent material misstatements or disclosures of directors remuneration have Our audit methodology and tools aim to inconsistencies we consider the implications not been made or the part of the Directors ensure that our quality control procedures are for our report.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in effective, understood and applied.
Our quality agreement with the accounting records and controls and systems include our dedicated Stephen Griggs returns.
We have nothing to report arising professional standards review team, and Senior Statutory Auditor, FCA from these matters.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the Companys Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are also required to members, as a body, in accordance with London, United Kingdom review the part of the Corporate Governance Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 1 September 2016 Statement relating to the Companys 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken compliance with certain provisions of the UK so that we might state to the Companys Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing members those matters we are required to report arising from our review.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Our duty to read other information in the permitted by law, we do not accept or Annual Report assume responsibility to anyone other than Under International Standards on Auditing the Company and the Companys members UK and Ireland, we are required to report as a body, for our audit work, for this report, to you if, in our opinion, information in the or for the opinions we have formed.
Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
