4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 BACK END.
qxp 3282 25 05 2016 11:28 Page 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Our response: Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our audit procedures with respect to the valuation of investments Opinion on financial statements included, but were not limited to the following: We have audited the consolidated financial statements the financial statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the n we tested the design and implementation of controls around the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year challenge and approval of the valuation process adopted by ended 31 March 2016 which comprise the Consolidated Income management and the Board Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated n we communicated directly with the project entities and asset Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting managers for a risk based sample of investments to identify framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable circumstances which may materially impact the underlying cash law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by flow forecasts.
On this basis, we critically assessed the the European Union EU.
In our opinion, the financial statements: reasonableness of the cash flow forecasts including whether any identified circumstances had been considered n give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at n we used our own valuation specialists and their market 31 March 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: knowledge to support our challenge and determine the n have been properly prepared in accordance with International appropriateness of managements assumptions Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and n we evaluated the competency of the third party Valuation Expert n comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. in the context of their ability to generate a reliable estimate of the fair value, by assessing their professional qualifications, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement experience and independence from the Group.
We also held The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this discussions with the third party Valuation Expert and considered report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional whether their findings were consistent with the results of the judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit audit work we had performed strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial of the fair value of investments, specifically the estimates and statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is judgements taken by the Group in arriving at the fair value of the not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not investments.
We also considered the disclosure of the degree of express an opinion on these individual risks.
sensitivity when a reasonably possible change in a key assumption could give rise to a change in the fair value of the investments.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of audit was as follows: our audit Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of Valuation of investments at Fair Value 1,932.9m precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be Refer to pages 76 to 77 of the Audit Committee Report, Note 2 expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the accounting policies, Note 3 critical accounting judgements, basis of the financial statements.
The auditor has to apply estimates and assumptions and Note 4 financial instruments.
judgement in identifying whether a misstatement or omission is material and to do so the auditor identifies a monetary amount as The risk: materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
97% of the Groups total assets by value are infrastructure investments, held at fair value, where no quoted market price is Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at available.
The fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow 19 million 2015: 17 million determined with reference to a methodology applied by the Board, in conjunction with the benchmark of Group gross assets of which it represents Investment Adviser.
The Directors received a report and opinion on approximately 1%.
Gross assets are considered to be one of the the Investment Advisers valuation from an independent third party principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing valuation expert.
The use of a discounted cash flow valuation the financial performance of the Group.
methodology requires significant judgements to be applied in respect of estimating long term forecast cash flows, the discount rates In addition, we applied a materiality of 2 million 2015: 1 million to applied and the selection of appropriate values for assumptions interest and dividend income and fund expenses in the Consolidated surrounding uncertain future events.
In addition, inherent in these Income Statement for which we believe misstatements of lesser long term forecast cash flows are key macroeconomic assumptions amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could such as inflation, interest and tax rates.
be reasonably expected to influence the Companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
The risk is that inappropriate cash flow assumptions including the discount rates applied and or the selection of inappropriate values We agreed with the audit committee to report to it all corrected and for assumptions surrounding uncertain future events may result in a uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a materially different valuation of these infrastructure investments held value in excess of 0.95 million 2015: 0.85 million, in addition to at fair value through profit and loss.
other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
80 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge a single operating entity based on the aggregated set of financial we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they information for the Group.
The audit was performed using the consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group a whole is: revenue, Group profit before taxation and total Group assets.
n fair, balanced and understandable and Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of n provides the information necessary for members to assess the significant risks of material misstatement and the associated audit Groups position and performance, business model and procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
strategy: or n the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address Whilst the audit process is designed to provide reasonable matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather we plan the audit to determine the Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are required to extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the report to you if, in our opinion: probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial n the Company has not kept proper accounting records: or statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct n the financial statements are not in agreement with the significant depth of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, accounting records: or income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the n we have not received all the information and explanations, which Responsible Individual, to subjective areas of the accounting and to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the reporting process.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 66 relating to the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Scope of report and responsibilities estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the other than the Companys members as a body financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 statements and to identify any information that is apparently and, in respect of any further matters on which we have agreed to materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the report, on terms we have agreed with the Company.
Our audit work knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Disclosures of principal risks Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor n the directors viability statement on page 45 concerning the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation directors assessment and expectations of the Company of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true continuing in operation over the five years to March 2021: or and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion n the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Those standards require us to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing [ISAs] UK and Ireland Dermot A. Dempsey we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either Guernsey that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
17 May 2016 In particular, we are required to report to you if: The maintenance and integrity of the HICL Infrastructure Company Limited website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
