Financial Statements 90 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit evaluating the appropriateness and year-on-year consistency of 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified underlying assumptions in determining the cash flows including We have audited the Financial Statements of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC considering the appropriateness of the growth assumptions applied for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the Consolidated with reference to historical forecasting accuracy, comparison Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive of forecast cash flows to those currently being achieved by the Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the CGUs, and challenging the Group where such future cash flows are Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement significantly higher than current levels or do not reflect known or of Cash Flows, the Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of probable changes in the business environment: Changes in Equity, Company Statement of Cash Flows and the related challenging, including appraisal by our own specialists, the key notes.
inputs used in the calculation of the discount rates used by the In our opinion: Group, including comparisons with external data sources and comparator Group data: and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December performing our own sensitivity analysis, with particular focus on the 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: CGUs with lower levels of headroom, principally, France Galva S. A. including a reasonably possible reduction in assumed growth rates, the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in discount rates and cash flows to compare to the sensitivity analysis accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as prepared by the Group.
adopted by the European Union: We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, and that the impairment loss recognised in respect of CA Traffic is appropriately disclosed.
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group UK post retirement benefits obligation - Gross liabilities 90.9m Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2015: 80.1m Risk v 2015: Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, page 101 Accounting Policy 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and pages 129 to 135 Financial Disclosures.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit The risk were as follows: The valuation of the UK post-retirement benefit obligation involves the selection of appropriate actuarial assumptions, most notably the discount Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets - 131.8m rate applied to scheme liabilities, inflation rates and mortality rates.
The 2015: 107.6m Risk v 2015: selection of these assumptions is inherently subjective and small changes Refer to page 60 Audit Committee Report, page 98 Accounting Policy in the assumptions and estimates used to value the Groups net pension and pages 109 to 117 Financial Disclosures.
deficit could have a significant effect on the financial position of the The risk Group.
The value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets is dependent on Our response the future profitability and cash flows of the various Cash Generating Units With the support of our own actuarial specialists, we challenged the CGU within the Group with the key external influences being investment key assumptions applied to determine the Groups net deficit, being the in power generation, infrastructure expenditure and industrial activity in discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy.
This included the Groups various markets.
An impairment assessment of goodwill and a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data, indefinite life intangible assets is carried out annually and when there is such as the comparison of different durations using the bond yield an indicator of impairment.
The assessment uses a net present value of curve to derive a single equivalent discount rate.
We also considered the forecast cash flows of the CGU.
The value in use of each CGU is calculated adequacy of the Groups disclosures.
using entity specific assumptions around discount rates, growth rates and cash flow forecasts.
Given the relative size of the goodwill and indefinite 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our life intangible assets balance in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and audit inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set flows, relatively small changes in these assumptions could give rise to at 2.9m 2015: 2.4m, determined with reference to a benchmark material changes in the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude specific nonunderlying items, included within note 3, being net costs in respect Our response of business reorganisations, acquisition costs, losses on disposal of Our procedures included: properties and an impairment charge of goodwill and acquired intangible assessing through consideration of our business understanding and assets as we consider these to distort the underlying performance of the broader audit procedures whether any trigger events had arisen Group.
Normalised group profit before tax is calculated as 64.5m which would indicate a possible impairment of intangible assets, in 2015: 50.3m, of which materiality represents 4.5% 2015: 4.8%.
addition to the required annual impairment testing: We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified considering the recoverable amounts of the Groups CGUs by misstatements exceeding 145,000 2015: 120,000, in addition to other critically assessing the key assumptions applied in determining the identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
value in use of these CGUs: Of the Groups 57 2015: 54 reporting components, we subjected 38 2015: 34 to audits and 3 2015: 2 to specified audit procedures for Group reporting purposes.
The components for which we performed work other than audits for Group reporting purposes were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
These components were subjected to specified risk-focused audit procedures over inventory and trade receivables.
com | Stock Code HILS Financial Statements 91 These audits covered 84.9% 2015: 86.4% of total Group revenue: 90.4% 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 2015: 97.8% of Group profit before taxation: and 88.8% 2015: 89.5% we are required to report by exception of total Group assets.
Specified audit procedures were performed at Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on components which comprise a further 8.0% 2015: 6.7% of total Group the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other revenue: 1.0% 2015: 0.1% of Group profit before taxation: and 0.9% information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency 2015: 0.6% of total Group assets.
with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Normalised Group Group profit before tax materiality In particular, we are required to report to you if: 64.5m 2.9m we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 2.9m Whole Financial we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statement that Statements materiality they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or 2.2m Maximum component the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters materiality communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Misstatements opinion: reported to the Audit 145k Committee adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant from branches not visited by us: or areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m with the accounting records and returns: or 2015: 0.1m to 2.2m 2015: 1.8m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of Group entities across the components.
The audit of certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are 5 of the 38 2015: 5 of 34 components was performed by component not made: or auditors and the remainder by the Group audit team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group we have not received all the information and explanations we profit before tax.
Telephone conference meetings were held with all of the component Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: auditors.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit the Directors Statements, set out on page 88, in relation to going team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the concern and longer-term viability: and Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
The Group audit team also visited component locations in the United States of the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 45 to 87 America.
relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In our opinion: Scope and responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the and financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are www.
This report is made solely to the prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website audit of the Financial Statements and from reading the Strategic Report at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated and the Directors Report: into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and and the basis of our opinions.
in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Darren Turner Senior Statutory Auditor 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing Chartered Accountants material to add or draw attention to in relation to: One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway the Directors Statement of Viability on pages 55 and 56, concerning Birmingham the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the B4 6GH Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to December 2019: or 8 March 2017 the disclosures in the Group Accounting Policies on page 97 concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
