Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc - Group report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Home Retail Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 February 2016 and of its loss and cash flows for the 52-week period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 27 February 2016: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the period then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context On 17 January 2016 the Group signed a share purchase agreement with Bunnings UK & I Holdings Limited to sell Homebase and the deal completed on 27 February 2016.
In light of the disposal we included the accounting for discontinued operations as an area of audit focus.
In addition, as announced on 1 April 2016, the boards of Home Retail Group plc and J Sainsbury plc have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer for Home Retail Group plc.
Notwithstanding this offer, we determined there was no additional risk or impact to our planned audit approach for Home Retail Group as a standalone Group in the current year.
Overview Materiality: Overall Group materiality of 8.0 million, which was based on applying professional judgement, gives regard to benchmark profit before tax including discontinued operations in the current year as well as the overall scale of the business.
Audit scope: We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of the largest operating segment, Argos, due to its significance to the Group, and of the Financial Services segment due to the increased inherent risk associated with certain activities within that segment.
We have performed an audit of the income statement of Homebase, which is considered to be a financially significant segment as although it has been disposed of at the year end, a full year trading activity contributes to the overall Group profit loss.
We have also audited the loss on disposal of the segment.
Additional audit procedures we performed at a Group level, including testing of certain central expenses in the fourth operating segment, Central Activities, and over the Group consolidation.
Areas of focus: Commercial income.
Provisions for customer redress in respect of Financial Services products.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 57 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 58 Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus commercial income Volume-based rebates As described in the Group Audit and Risk Committee Our approach to auditing volume-based rebates on purchases was largely substantive in nature due Report on page 38 and in note 3 to the accounts on to the manual process for tracking such amounts.
In addition, we have tested key system controls, page 71, the Group has two main streams of commercial including those used to determine the amount of items purchased under the terms of volume-based income: volume-based rebates and marketing and rebate agreements.
We tested the rebate purchase arrangements entered into the rebate system or onto the sales Commercial income is an area of focus due to the rebate spreadsheet by testing a sample of data to contracts and agreeing the contractual terms had quantum of the income recorded under these been recorded correctly.
In the absence of a contract, we agreed the terms of the arrangement to arrangements and its significance in relation to the other evidence from the supplier.
We also tested any post year-end reversal of debit notes recorded result for the year, and the application of management at the balance sheet date for evidence and found no such amounts.
judgement in recording either amounts receivable or We additionally re-performed the system calculation of rebate income to confirm the accuracy of amounts deferred at the balance sheet date.
the income recorded, and reconciled the total value of volume-based rebate income recorded in the Volume-based rebates rebate system or on the rebate spreadsheet to the total value recorded in the general ledger and found no material reconciling items.
Volume-based rebates are earned both on purchases of product from suppliers and also on sales to customers We also independently confirmed the terms of a sample of individual commercial income and are driven by the Group achieving certain purchase agreements, covering both the duration of the arrangement and rebate value ranges based upon the or sales volume targets set by individual suppliers for volume of purchases or sales directly with a range of suppliers.
In addition, we independently specific products over a pre-determined period.
obtained confirmation of a sample of debit notes raised in the year within the associated agreement There is, therefore, judgement involved in estimating the period.
volume of purchases or sales, particularly where rebate Based on the testing detailed above, we concluded there were no material errors in volume based agreements span a financial year end.
the rebate agreement does not fully coincide with the Marketing and advertising funding year end the key judgement that we focused on was the Marketing and advertising funding is tracked on spreadsheets and therefore our audit procedures estimate of rebate income to be accrued at the year end, focused on obtaining evidence over the amount of the marketing funding entered onto these in particular, the judgement over whether required spreadsheets and whether the funding was recognised in the correct period.
contractual volumes were expected to be received.
We traced a sample of funding arrangements included on the spreadsheet tracker to evidence from Marketing and advertising funding the supplier that they had agreed to the arrangement.
We additionally tested the remittance of cash Marketing and advertising funding is recognised in the through the suppliers account.
income statement over the period of time to which the We tested whether marketing funding had been allocated to the correct year by testing a sample of funding relates depending on the nature of the specific deals logged on the spreadsheet tracker raised after the year end across all types of funding to arrangement.
This is a complex area given the varied ensure that, where income related to preyear-end funding, that funding had been recorded.
types of funding in place such as funding relating to specific marketing campaigns, funding related to specific In the Argos business, we traced a sample of adverts viewed on television, online and in print media Argos catalogues or general marketing support, and in the period to the spreadsheet trackers to check the income had been recognised in the correct managements manual methodology of tracking and period.
recording this income on spreadsheets.
In the Homebase business, for a sample of marketing funding deals we independently confirmed Our focus was therefore on assessing whether there was with the suppliers the income to be recognised in the period.
evidence that a funding agreement was in place, We reconciled the total value of funding income recorded in the spreadsheet trackers to the total whether the relevant marketing activity had taken place value recorded in the general ledger and found no material reconciling items.
and whether the income recognised was recorded in the Based on the testing detailed above, we concluded there were no material errors in marketing and correct year, with particular focus on testing the manual advertising funding.
goodwill impairment assessment We assessed and challenged the appropriate methodology to assess the carrying value of the Argos goodwill in light of the recommended offer from J Sainsbury plc.
Refer to the Group Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 38, the critical accounting estimates and We obtained and understood managements impairment calculation which assesses the difference judgements in note 2 to the accounts on page 70, and between the carrying value of the Groups net assets, including goodwill, and the value of the note 15 for goodwill.
recommended offer having adjusted for certain items inherent in the valuation.
We tested the calculation for mathematical accuracy.
Management has recorded a charge of 851.7m to impair goodwill in order to align the Groups reported net assets, We evaluated the nature of the adjustments made by management to the offer price used in the after adjusting for certain other items, to the impairment calculation.
We obtained supporting evidence to verify these adjustments and recommended offer from J Sainsbury plc for the purchase corroborate the reasonableness of the amounts.
We concluded that the impairment recorded was appropriate and the corresponding disclosures are We focused on this area because of the materiality of the reasonable.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 58 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 59 area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for customer redress in respect of We evaluated controls around the PPI redress program and tested the internal quality review process over the calculation of PPI redress payments and determined it to be effective.
Financial Services products Refer to the Group Audit and Risk Committee Report on We tested the completeness of the customer account population and the premiums paid to date by page 38, the critical accounting estimates and obtaining, and re-performing the data scripts used to extract data from management systems.
judgements in note 2 to the accounts on page 70, and Using our expertise in the financial services sector, we understood and challenged the provisioning note 24 for provisions on page 95. calculation and underlying assumptions used by management.
We have reviewed historic data of The Groups Financial Services division offers Payment response rates and pay-out rates, being key assumptions in the calculation.
For those assumptions Protection Insurance PPI to customers for which a based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for future experience.
provision is recognised in respect of estimated future We also independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to quantify the range customer redress.
of possible outcomes for the provision and concluded the provision was reasonable.
Management uses a model to calculate estimated We evaluated disclosures made in the financial statements.
We found the disclosures made to be provisions.
This is a key area of focus due to the extent of appropriate.
judgement incorporated in the assessment and inherent uncertainty in assessing factors such as customer response rates to mailing campaigns, uphold rates on future complaints and the operational cost of administering these claims.
We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items with exceptional items Refer to note 9 on page 84 and note 14 iv on page 89 for reference to the applicable accounting standards.
We evaluated whether each of the items disclosed as exceptional met the criteria set out in the The financial statements include certain items which are accounting policy and with the treatment adopted in previous accounting years, and confirmed that they were.
In continuing operations these comprise Argos goodwill impairment of 851.7m, Argos We agreed a sample of Argos transformation costs incurred to supplier invoices or other form of transformation of 10.3m, customer redress provisions evidence such as payroll records to confirm the accuracy of the amounts without exception.
of 17.0m and impairment of the Habitat brand and We agreed a sample of transaction, separation and restructuring costs incurred to either supplier goodwill of 12.5m.
In discontinuing operations invoices to confirm the accuracy of the amounts or assessed the reasonableness of assumptions in exceptional items comprise gain on disposal of freehold managements calculation of costs.
All costs recorded were supportable.
property of 39.3m, loss on disposal of 18.5m and We considered the impact of the closure of the Habitat concessions which are required to close as disposal related transaction, separation and restructuring result of the sale Homebase and concluded that based on managements forecast of future costs of 7.8m.
profitability the Habitat brand and goodwill is impaired.
We focused on this area because items classified as We reviewed the calculation of the gain on disposal of freehold property and agreed amounts to exceptional require judgement by the directors as to supporting evidence such as the sale and purchase agreement, property deeds and the bank whether the items meet the definition in the Groups statement.
Argos goodwill, customer redress and the loss on disposal are considered in other sections of our Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as opinion.
exceptional is important to maintain comparability of the results with previous years.
accounting for discontinued operations We have reviewed the share purchase agreement for the sale of Homebase and tested Refer to the Group Audit and Risk Committee Report on managements calculation of the loss on disposal: page 38 and note 14 on pages 88 and 89 for disposal of We have agreed the sale proceeds received to the share purchase agreement and cash received: Homebase.
We have tested the mathematical accuracy of managements calculation: The results of the Homebase segment are disclosed as We have performed analytical procedures on the net assets disposed and agreed the closing net discontinued operations in the consolidated income asset position to the share purchase agreement: statement, and a loss on disposal of 18.5m has been We have reviewed the completion accounts prepared under the terms of the share purchase recognised in the year.
This has been an area of focus given the significance of We concluded that the loss on disposal and the disclosures made in Annual Report are appropriate.
disposing of a major operating segment, and the complexity and judgement in accounting for this disposal and providing the required disclosures in the Annual Report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along four operating segments being Argos, Financial Services, Central Activities and Homebase, which although presented as a discontinued operation, continues to be a financially significant segment as a full-year trading activity which contributes to the overall Group profit loss.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 59 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 60 Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of the largest operating segment, Argos, due to its significance to the Group, and of the Financial Services segment due to the increased inherent risk associated with certain activities within that segment.
We have performed an audit of the income statement of Homebase and have also audited the loss on disposal of the segment.
The group engagement partner led the audit of the Argos segment and we engaged component auditors within PwC UK to perform the Homebase and Financial Services segment audits.
All audits are conducted at a single location, which enabled the group engagement team to be actively involved in understanding and evaluating the work of the component auditors.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including testing certain central expenses within the Central Activities segment and with respect to goodwill impairment testing and the Group consolidation, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 8.0 million 2015: 8.6 million.
How we determined it Applying professional judgement, giving consideration to benchmark profit before tax including discontinued operations in the current year as well the overall scale of the business.
rationale for benchmark applied We believe that benchmark profit before tax which excludes exceptional and other non-core items is the primary profit measure used by shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
This provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
We had regard to benchmark profit before tax, as well as the overall scale of the business, because in our view, this is appropriate for a business that has had relatively stable volumes but volatile profits.
There has been no significant change in the business in the year, however as trading performance is lower than anticipated, we have reduced our materiality level to reflect this.
component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 2.4 million and 7.6 million.
We agreed with the Group Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4 million 2015: 0.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 60 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group StrateGic report Governance StatementS information Annual Report 2016 61 Other required reporting consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 56, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 37, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report.
the work of the Group Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
the directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 34 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to add or to draw the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to draw managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add or to draw the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 61 20 05 2016 17:59 Home Retail Group 62 Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc continued responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the 52-week period ended 27 February 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
neil grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 April 2016 MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 62 20 05 2016 17:59
