Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Hochschild Mining plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Hochschild Mining plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Hochschild Mining plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Statement of cash flows for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 13 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 37 to the consolidated financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Recoverability of the carrying value of the Groups mining assets misstatement Revenue recognition Mine rehabilitation provisions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 3 of the 18 components and performed audit procedures on specific selected accounts of 2 additional components.
The components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the Financial Review on page 27 of the Annual Report on an absolute basis, 100% of revenue and 96% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$6.3m 2015: US$2.6m which represents approximately 2% of Adjusted EBITDA.
The increase in the materiality is primarily due to the improved financial performance as a result of the overall increase in prices and additional production from Inmaculada.
com 69 Independent auditors report to the members of Hochschild Mining plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Details of why we identified these risks of material misstatements and our audit response are set out in the below table.
This is not a complete list of all the procedures we performed in respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether we consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same compared to 2015.
Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Recoverability of the carrying value Our approach focused on the following procedures: As a result of the audit procedures performed, we have of the Groups mining assets concluded that managements impairment indicator Obtained an understanding of managements process around analysis for the Groups CGUs has been carried out Refer to the Audit Committee Report impairments and impairment reversals assessment, including appropriately and in accordance with the requirements page 48 : Accounting policies page the effective implementation of all relevant controls.
81 : and Notes 16, 17 and 18 to the Audited managements assessment of whether any indicators Consolidated Financial Statements.
We concur with managements analysis that there are of impairment under IAS 36 and IFRS 6 were present at no impairment indicators nor impairment reversal 31 December 2016, including a challenge of the validity and At 31 December 2016 the carrying indicators present at 31 December 2016 completeness of the indicators and consulted with our value of property, plant and and therefore a full impairment assessment is valuation specialist where appropriate: equipment, evaluation and not required.
exploration assets and intangible Compared and assessed the changes to the spot and assets was US$1,140.8m 2015: analyst forecasts of future gold and silver prices as at We concur with managements assessment that the US$1,211.7m.
31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015: carrying value of the Volcan CGU is not impaired or requires a reversal of impairment as at 31 December IFRS requires companies to test their Obtained relevant support of managements position on 2016. assets by cash generating units market interest rates and other macro-economic factors, CGUs for impairment or in particular whether the economic changes in the We concluded that the related disclosures in the Group impairment reversals whenever an Argentinian economy would suggest a potential indicator financial statements are appropriate.
An intangible asset of impairment: and with an indefinite useful life is tested Discussed with management the approved mine plans or for impairment at least annually and budgets, taking into account the updated reserves and whenever there is an indication that resources estimates.
the asset might be impaired.
Obtained the recoverable value model from management for As at 31 December 2016, the Volcan CGUs, which includes water permits which are management assessed that there deemed to have an indefinite useful life under Chilean law : were no impairment or impairment Assessed the appropriateness of the methodology applied in reversal indicators present and preparing the model: therefore no assessment of the Tested the recoverable value model for accuracy, performed recoverable amount of the Groups sensitivity analyses on significant inputs, and challenged the mining assets has been performed.
appropriateness of key assumptions as compared with third Given the ongoing volatility in party independent sources or other evidence: and commodity prices, we continue to Compared the calculated recoverable value to the associated consider there is a risk that the carrying value, assessing whether any impairment charge or carrying values of the Groups mining reversal of previously recognised impairment charge is assets, including property, plant and required: and equipment, exploration and evaluation assets and intangible Considered the appropriateness, sufficiency, and clarity of the assets might not be recoverable or impairment-related disclosures provided in the financial could require a reversal of statements and disclosures of sensitivities.
We performed audit procedures at the Group level over this risk area covering 100% of the risk amount.
70 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition Our audit focused on the following procedures: As a result of the procedures performed, we have been able to conclude that the Group has appropriately Refer to the Audit Committee Report Obtained an understanding of the key controls around the accounted for the revenue transactions in accordance page 48 : Accounting policies page revenue recognition process to ensure that they were designed with IFRS, and the calculation of the provisional pricing 81 : and Note 5 to the Consolidated and implemented effectively, supporting the prevention, adjustment and the values of the realised loss on the Financial Statements.
detection or correction of material errors in the reported hedging arrangements have been performed in revenue figures: For the year ended 31 December accordance with the requirements of IFRS and the Tested the operating and effectiveness of key controls where 2016 the Group recognised revenue Groups accounting policies.
We noted that in all cases this was deemed a more efficient approach than substantive from operations of US$688.2m managements assumptions and estimates were testing, including those controls over provisional pricing: 2015: US$469.1m.
Read the terms and conditions of material sales contracts and We continue to consider revenue ensured they have been accounted for in line with the Groups recognition as an area of higher risk revenue recognition policy: which drives our audit strategy and Performed detailed substantive testing procedures over the allocation of resources.
The number revenue transactions, including cut-off testing to ensure of sales contracts and complex terms revenue is recognised in the correct period: under which title, risks and rewards pass to the customer increases the For open sales where provisional pricing applies, we compared risk of measurement and cut-off the fair value price assumption to market forward rates and errors.
We have also identified risks in recalculated the provisional price adjustment to ensure that relation to the calculation of the this item was properly measured.
Also we performed a adjustment for provisional pricing, subsequent review for the sales closed near the date of including the estimate of silver and reporting to check that the final amounts issued on sale gold in the concentrate sold.
settlement are materially consistent with the estimation made at year-end: For the silver and gold price hedging arrangements entered during the year, we engaged an EY internal specialist to audit managements hedging documentation, forming an independent view that the application of hedge accounting was appropriate.
We also recalculated the resulting realised losses recognised within revenue: Tested reconciliation of year-end inventory additional cut-off procedures by agreeing the movements of production and sales transactions to the respective reports: and Reviewed the financial statements to assess whether all required disclosures in respect of revenue and the provisional pricing have been included in the Group financial statements.
We performed audit procedures in two components under full scope audit, covering 100% of this risk amount.
Mine rehabilitation provisions Our approach consisted of the following procedures: As a result of the procedures performed we concluded that the provisions for mine rehabilitation activities Refer to the Audit Committee Report Obtained an understanding of managements process to have been recognised appropriately in accordance with page 48 : Accounting policies page calculate the future restoration costs: IFRS, and that all required disclosures have been 81 : and Notes 26 to the Consolidated Obtained and read copies of the mine closure reports issued by included in the Group financial statements.
Based on Financial Statements the external specialists engaged by the Group to update the the information available, we consider that the mine closure plans, and held discussions directly with the At 31 December 2016 management judgements and assumptions made by management specialists, to understand their work and assess the sufficiency has recorded a mine rehabilitation and the external specialists appear to be reasonable.
of the Groups restoration provisions: provision of US$102.4m 2015: US$120.1m.
Reviewed any significant changes in estimates or new restoration costs and challenged the rationale behind the Management is required to provide updates: for the costs of environmental Assessed the objectiveness and completeness of the external rehabilitation and site restoration in and internal specialists used by management: accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent Audited the significant changes in estimates and challenged assets.
For this purpose we held discussions with management and the third-party specialist as Given the high level of judgement well as performed comparison to prior year figures and and estimation applied in assessing enquired about significant variances: the method, timing and quantum of Performed an overall recalculation of the provision, including the cash flows required to challenging the discount rate applied: and rehabilitate mines, this is an area of audit focus.
We noted that the Assessed the accounting for the changes to these provisions, provision has decreased and and ensured that these changes and the provisions were therefore we challenged appropriately reflected and disclosed in the Group financial managements measurement.
com 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Hochschild Mining plc continued As part of our audit, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The above is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our audit approach and assessment of risks of material misstatements change in response to changes in circumstances affecting the Hochschild Mining plc business and impacting the Group financial statements.
Since the 2015 audit, we have made the following change to our risks of material misstatements: The risk relating to the recoverability of the carrying value of the Groups mining assets has been reduced relative to the prior year as no impairment assessment of the recoverable value of the Groups mining assets was performed excluding intangible assets with indefinite useful life, as there were no impairment or impairment reversal indicators present as at 31 December 2016.
As at 31 December 3016, the mine rehabilitation provision decreased by US$17.0m mainly as a result of the review performed by external specialists.
We now consider mine rehabilitation provision to be a risk of material misstatement given it had the greatest effect on the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We no longer consider Going concern to be a risk of material misstatement on the basis of the higher level of operating cash inflows and improved net cash positions of the Group, as compared to the prior year.
We no longer consider Tax contingencies to be a risk of material misstatement as there have been no significant changes from prior year in terms of timing and potential impact that could have a significant effect on the risk arising from tax exposures.
Consequently, this issue no longer has the greatest effect on the allocation of resources in the audit.
The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, the industry in which the Group operates, changes in the business environment and other factors, such the risks of material misstatement, when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the Group financial statements, of the 18 reporting components of the Group, we selected three components covering entities within the UK, Peru and Argentina, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
On these components we performed an audit of the complete financial information full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
In addition to this, at the Group level we performed audit procedures on specific accounts on two components that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile specific scope components.
The reporting full scope and specific scope components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 97% 2015: 97% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA on an absolute basis, 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups revenue and 96% 2015: 97% of the Groups total assets.
The remaining components represent 3% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA and none is individually greater than 1% of the Groups Adjusted EBITDA.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams: ADJUSTED EBITDA REVENUE TOTAL ASSETS 3% 4% 6% 97% 100% 90% Full scope components Full scope components Full Scope Other procedures Speci c Scope Other procedures 72 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were performed on two directly by the Peruvian and Argentinian EY member firms, while the third component was audited by the Group team.
For the components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the primary operating locations where the Group audit scope was focused.
The primary audit team and Senior Statutory Auditor visit the Peru operating location twice every year, and the Argentina operating location is visited at least once every two years.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken to the component team in Peru.
The last visit to the Argentina operating location was in February 2015 and next visit is expected to take place in 2017.
For all locations subject to a full audit, in addition to any location visits, the primary team interacted regularly with the component teams during various stages of the audit and was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The primary team also participated in the component teams planning, discussed the audit approach with the component teams and any issues arising from their work, reviewed key audit working papers and attended all closing meetings either in person or by call.
The Group audit team tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm the conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to full audit or an audit of specified account balances.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Performance materiality Reporting threshold US$6.3m US$4.7m US$315k Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$6.3 million 2015: US$2.6 million, which is approximately 2% 2015: 2% of Adjusted EBITDA.
We consider that Adjusted EBITDA provides us with an earnings-based measure that is significant to users of the financial statements on which we could set our materiality.
This was deemed to be a critical measure for users of the financial statements, given the focus on this metric by the Groups shareholders, investors and external lenders, specifically as an Adjusted EBITDA measure is used to assess the Groups compliance with key restrictive covenants on the Groups borrowings.
Our materiality amount provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net finance cost, foreign exchange loss and income tax Starting basis Add: Depreciation and amortisation in cost of sales and in administrative expenses Add: Exploration expenses other than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses Adjustments Add: Other non-cash expenses Adjusted EBITDA - US$329.0m Materiality: 2% of Adjusted EBITDA Materiality www.
com 73 Independent auditors report to the members of Hochschild Mining plc continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and the number and monetary amounts of individual uncorrected misstatements identified in prior periods as well as the nature of the misstatements, our judgement was that performance materiality for the Group was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$4.7m 2015: US$2.0m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our understanding of the Groups control environment and that there have been no significant events that would alter our expectation that there is a low likelihood of misstatements that would be material individually or in aggregate to the financial statements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$3.8m to US$3.0m 2015: US$2.0m to US$1.1m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$315k 2015: US$130k, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 68, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
74 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Governance Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the We have no exceptions to report.
reporting Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in We have no exceptions to report.
reporting the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 43, and longer-term viability, set out on page 39: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing material to add attention to in relation to: or to draw attention to.
Ireland reporting the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Mirco Bardella Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2017 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Hochschild Mining plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
