INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC Report on the Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion: Hunting PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group and Company financial statements, which include a summary of principal accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality was set at $5.0 million which represents approximately 5% of three year average absolute profit or loss before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in seven countries covering 22 reporting units and visited a number of audit locations, including the one financially significant component, Hunting Perforating Systems.
Components where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 94% of Group revenues and over 90% of Group absolute adjusted profit or loss before tax from continuing operations.
Areas of focus Goodwill and non-current asset impairment assessment.
Direct tax exposures and recognition of deferred tax assets.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we alsoaddressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, areidentified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas inorder to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 80 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill and non-current asset impairment We tested managements identification of the CGUs, considering business assessment changes that would prompt a change to the classification of CGUs.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee report, Note 2 critical accounting estimates and judgements, Note 37 In order to test the impairment models, we challenged whether the future cash principal accounting policies and Notes 14, 15 and 16. flow forecasts and the timing of the forecast recovery in performance of these forecasts for the identified CGUs were appropriate.
The Group holds $229.8 million of goodwill on the balance sheet which is tested at least annually for More specifically, we challenged the key assumptions as follows: impairment.
Additional intangible assets held by the Group, including customer relationships, unpatented Forecast revenue and margin growth rate assumptions and how technology and patents & trademarks, total management has incorporated the impact of the decline in oil prices, $150.7million and the Group has property, plant bycomparing them to historical results, comparing the short and medium andequipment of $419.0 million.
Other non-current term growth rates to independent specialist third party published reports assets are tested for impairment if impairment triggers and considering the impact already observed within the market: are identified.
Terminal growth rates by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and Determining the recoverable amount of non-current Discount rates by comparing the cost of capital assumption for each assets for impairment purposes is a judgemental and CGU against comparable organisations and our independently calculated complex area as it depends on the future financial discount rates.
performance of the cash generating unit CGU and future market performance.
While there have been We found the above assumptions to be in line with our expectations and that signs of improvement in the oil and gas market towards management has followed a clear process for drawing up the future cash flow the end of 2016, there remains uncertainty as a result forecasts, which was subject to oversight and challenge by the Directors and of the impact of the relatively low oil prices.
As such, which was consistent with Board approved budgets and mid-term forecasts.
the key area of focus is the carrying value of assets, with our focus on judgemental areas being the forecast In addition to evaluating managements assessments, a sum of the parts revenue and margin growth rate, terminal growth rates valuation exercise was undertaken by comparing the Groups net book value and discount rates.
and recoverable amount valuation to the Groups market capitalisation.
We compared the results with observable implied premiums for similar groups Managements calculated recoverable amounts within the industry, noting that the Groups result was within that range.
exceed the carrying value of all CGUs.
As a result, there have been no impairment charges recognised In respect of all CGUs, we sensitised each key driver of the cash flow inthe current year.
Several CGUs remain sensitive to forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and, what we considered to be a reasonably possible change in the assumptions, as such, sensitivity analysis has been included in notes based on current market data and historical and current business 14 and 15. performance.
In addition we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to change before an impairment was triggered.
Having satisfied ourselves on the key assumptions, sensitivities and sum ofthe parts valuation, we assessed the likelihood of movements in key assumptions required to trigger an impairment and by comparison to sensitised forecasts and possible change in discount rates and concluded that it was unlikely.
Inventory valuation For all categories of inventory, we have critically reviewed the basis for the Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, Note 2 provisions recorded to reduce the carrying value of inventory below cost, critical accounting estimates and judgements, theconsistency of provisioning in line with the Groups accounting policy and Note37 principal accounting policies and Note 20. the rationale for the recording of provisions.
The Group holds inventory of $259.7 million.
This We assessed the nature of the Groups inventory and the durability thereof inventory is subject to the changing industry demands through discussion with management, inspection of inventory and review of of the oil and gas market.
As a result of the decline the utilisation of aged inventory products.
We agreed with management that experienced in the market over the last two years, the evidence obtained demonstrated that the nature of the Groups inventory pricing pressure has increased the risk of inventory is not perishable and the risk of technical obsolescence by age is low.
being carried at an amount greater than its net Specifically, we have: realisable value.
Consideration as to inventory obsolescence is additionally required following the Considered the available support, including current sales transactions, slowdown in the oil and gas market.
used to determine an appropriate net realisable value: Understood the ageing profile of the Groups inventory and Key to these judgements is managements management's assessment for obsolescence: and expectations for future sales and inventory Confirmed that where the cost of inventory is higher than its net realisable utilisationplans.
value, an appropriate provision has been made.
From the procedures performed, we obtained evidence that the inventory was not carried at amounts higher than net realisable value and concluded that it was unlikely that additional inventory provisions were required.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Direct tax exposures and recognition of deferred We discussed potential direct tax exposures with senior Group management, tax assets and the basis for their positions with the Groups in-house tax specialists.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, Note 2 critical accounting estimates and judgements, Note We evaluated the calculations of the provisions, and considered: 37 principal accounting policies and Notes 11 and 19.
The accuracy of the calculations and ensured that appropriate tax rates The Group operates in a number of different countries have been used: and and is therefore subject to many tax regimes around Key judgements made by management in determining the probability of the world.
Provisions are estimated for uncertain tax potential outcomes.
positions and disputes with tax authorities, including transactions between Group companies.
Our evaluation of these judgements included using our tax specialists, in the UK and overseas, and with experience in the oilfield services industry as well In addition, following taxable losses incurred in the as our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
current and prior year, there are estimates made in relation to the recoverability and recognition of deferred We evaluated the recognition of deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses tax assets arising from such losses.
The Group has and considered: recognised deferred tax assets of $5.6 million in relation to tax losses, with related unrecognised The accuracy of the calculations of total deferred tax assets available deferred tax assets of $30.9 million.
andensured that appropriate tax rates have been used: Key judgements made by management in determining the probability We considered this an area of focus because of the of future forecast taxable profits to utilise brought forward tax losses, judgement required by management to assess matters consistent with the cash flow forecasts used for impairment assessments: across multiple jurisdictions and to determine the and recoverability of assets into the future.
Assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets have been recognised by comparison to forecast taxable profits.
Through these procedures we evaluated the level of the provisions recognised, the recognition of deferred tax assets and the disclosures included in the financial statements, which we consider to be in line with the Groups policies and methodology and relevant accounting standards.
Refinancing and equity raising Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, Note 37 With regards to the renegotiation of the RCF, we tested the cash flows on principal accounting policies and Notes 22, 23, 27 refinancing to the terms of the renegotiated agreement.
We considered covenant compliance under the terms of the RCF through As a result of the decline in financial performance of managements extended forecast period, including downside sensitivities.
the Group during the previous financial year and the first half of the current year, there was significant With regards to the equity placement, we have validated the funds raised pressure on the Groups revolving credit facility RCF tothetransaction documents and cash receipts to test the shares issued.
Weassessed the classification of amounts credited to equity by comparison tothe terms of the transaction documents.
In order to address this and to increase the flexibility of the Groups balance sheet, management renegotiated Through these procedures we considered the accounting adopted for the the Groups RCF, resulting in a reduction in the size of refinancing and equity raising, and the related disclosures, to be in line with the available facility, limits on capital expenditure and relevant accounting standards.
new asset-based debt and cash flow covenants.
Additionally, the Group undertook an equity placing, raising net proceeds of $83.9 million in October 2016.
These funds were used by the Group to pay down debt, providing additional headroom against the amended covenant requirements.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 82 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of entities covering non-trading legal entities, centralised functions and operating units, totalling 60 reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we considered the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the extent of audit work needed at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 10 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 12 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at the Group level.
Indoing so we conducted work in seven countries and the Group audit team visited certain reporting locations in the US, including Hunting Perforating Systems, the one financially significant component.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for approximately 94% of Group revenues and over 90% of Group absolute adjusted profit or loss before tax from continuing operations.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, treasury, pensions and impairment, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of ouraudit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality $5.0 million 2015 $5.0 million.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of three year average absolute profit or loss before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets.
Rationale for We applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is an appropriate metric against which the benchmarkapplied performance of the Group is measured and of the recurring Group performance.
This is consistent with the prior year benchmark and reflects the fact that Huntings 2016 result is significantly lower than more normalised levels due to the current downturn in the market.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.5 million and $4.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.3 million 2015 $0.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern.
Wehavenothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to theDirectors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The Strategic Report and the Directors' Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or toreport.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge oftheGroup and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 59, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole toreport.
tobe fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 58, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the toreport.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 84 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofthe Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The Directors confirmation on page 38 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing ofthe Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, materialto add or including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 38 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done materialto add or so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have todrawattentionto.
a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principalrisks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting theirstatements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 85 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK&Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save whereexpressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors' Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
NICHOLAS CAMPBELL-LAMBERT SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 2 March 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the Hunting PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 86
