Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting 2017 The Annual General Meeting will be held on 24 May 2017, at 2:00 p. m. at Citigate Dewe Rogerson, 3 London Wall Buildings, London Wall, London EC2M 5SY.
The Notice convening the meeting together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for appointing proxies is contained in a circular which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting together with this Report.
In accordance with the Governance Code, and the Companys Articles of Association which require Directors to submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders, the Directors will all retire and will offer themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman has confirmed that the performance of all of the Directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate their commitment to the role.
Auditor During the year the Audit Committee conducted an external audit tender in accordance with best practice guidance and recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP Deloitte be appointed as the Companys auditor in place of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
The Board approved the recommendation.
Further information regarding the tender process is given in the Audit Committee Report on page 57.
As a consequence, EY has notified the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the forthcoming AGM and Deloitte has agreed to be appointed in its place.
The statement of circumstances required under section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 is reproduced in the Appendix to the Notice of AGM.
A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the appointment of Deloitte as auditor of the Company.
On behalf of the Board Robert Douglas Company Secretary 7 March 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 77 Financial statements 78 Independent Auditors Report 84 Consolidated income statement 85 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 86 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 88 Consolidated cash flow statement 89 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements 137 Company balance sheet 138 Company statement of changes in equity 139 Notes to the Company financial statements Other information 144 Additional information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ibstock plc Our opinion on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion: Risks of material misstatement that n Revenue recognition and had the greatest effect on our particularly accounting for n the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of overall audit strategy and the customer rebates the groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 allocation of resources in the audit n Determination of pension December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then liabilities ended: Audit scope n We performed a full scope audit n the group financial statements have been properly prepared in of the complete financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: information of all four trading components and the head n the Parent Company financial statements have been properly office entities.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally n The full scope audit procedures Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial accounted for 100% of each of Revenue, Profit before tax and Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Total assets.
Ireland: and Materiality n Group materiality was 3.6m n the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2015: 2.0m which represents the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards approximately 5% of profit before the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
tax before exceptional items 2015: 2% of Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and What we have audited amortisation before exceptional items.
Ibstock plcs financial statements as at 31 December 2016 and for the year then ended comprise: Our assessment of risk of material Group Parent Company misstatement Consolidated income statement Company balance sheet We identified the risks of material misstatement described below Consolidated statement of Company statement of changes as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, comprehensive income in equity the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the Consolidated balance sheet Related Notes 1 to 12 to the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we performed Company financial statements Consolidated statement of the procedures below which were designed in the context of the changes in equity financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not Consolidated cash flow statement express any opinion on these individual areas.
Related Notes 1 to 34 to the These risks are consistent with those identified and reported in Consolidated financial statements 2015 with the exception that we have removed the risk in relation to acquisition accounting which is no longer relevant for the current The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the year.
As described in Note 1 to the Annual Report and Accounts, preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and during 2016 a prior year error was identified in relation to deferred International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted tax in respect of mineral land held by the group due to the incorrect by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has determination of the associated tax base at acquisition on been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial 26February 2015.
No further adjustments have been made or statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting identified in respect of the acquisition accounting.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79 Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We identified and assessed key controls over the revenue process i. e. that Our audit procedures did not identify 434.7m 2015: 358.3m deliveries are recorded as revenue which are then collected into cash for any material differences regarding stated net of rebates for the Ibstock Brick and Forticrete.
We relied on these controls in our audit revenue recognition or the accounting period and accounting for approach.
We walked through the controls at Supreme and Glen-Gery to for rebates.
customer rebates confirm the design although we undertook a substantive audit of the Our journals testing did not identify any revenue process.
Refer to the Audit Committee manual adjustments to revenue or Report page 55 : Accounting We used data analytics at the Ibstock Brick, Supreme and Forticrete inappropriate adjustments to rebates.
policies from page 89 : and components to capture 100% of the revenue transaction flows and Note 4 of the consolidated analysed the relationship between revenue, debtors and cash.
We substantively tested revenue throughout the period by selecting a Revenue recognition is a sample of transactions, including bill and hold transactions at Glen-Gery significant audit risk across all to ensure they met the IFRS revenue recognition criteria, and traced them trading entities within the group.
to source documentation to ensure they were appropriately recorded.
Specifically there is a risk of We inspected revenue transactions around the period end and tested inappropriate revenue a sample of these to ensure they were recorded in the correct period.
recognition if revenue is recorded within the wrong We selected a sample of customer rebate contracts for significant accounting period, if bill and customers, inspected the terms, confirmed the sales data on which the hold transactions Glen-Gery rebate is based and recalculated the rebate to ensure the amounts only are recognised deducted from revenue were appropriate.
prematurely or if customer For a sample of customers we validated, through third party confirmation rebates are incorrectly recorded.
procedures, that the terms on which the rebate calculations were based were complete and accurate.
We performed hindsight analysis over the accuracy of prior period rebate balances by assessing the cash paid after prior year end and compared this to the related accrual.
To assess the completeness of rebates, we considered aged debtors, post period end credit notes and reviewed journal postings recorded for evidence of any unrecorded rebate amounts.
We also made enquiries of management as to the existence of any other rebate arrangements.
We used computer aided audit techniques to assess journals for the period to identify for any manual journals resulting in an inappropriate posting to revenue.
We reviewed significant manual journals for movements in revenue and rebates around the period end.
Determination of pension We evaluated the output of the actuary used by management by giving The actuarial assumptions used in the liabilities 698.0m 2015: due consideration to their competence, experience and independence.
IAS 19 valuation of the year end pension 550.5m liabilities are considered to be within an We involved our pension specialists to assist us in evaluating the validity of acceptable range for a scheme with the Refer to the Audit Committee the input assumptions including in respect of the discount rate, inflation characteristics of the Ibstock Defined Report page 55 : Accounting rate, cash commutation and mortality assumptions.
The methodology to Benefit Pension Scheme.
policies from page 89 : and determine the assumption has been assessed for appropriateness.
The Note 21 of the consolidated assumptions have also been assessed with respect to available market The pension liability and curtailment gain financial statements page 114. data and consistency with actuarial practice, scheme profile and market have been appropriately disclosed in the developments.
As at the year end, the Ibstock Defined Benefit Pension We assessed the pension curtailment gain recognised in the current year Scheme as defined in Note 21 to ensure it had been calculated using an appropriate methodology and had a net deficit of 28.7m inputs.
We assessed the magnitude and nature of the curtailment gain to 2015: restricted surplus of evaluate whether the disclosure as exceptional is appropriate.
0.3m with assets of 683.6m We checked a sample of participant data to underlying information sources 2015: 558.9m and liabilities of such as the payroll system.
The determination of the liability We tested the calculation of the additional liability resulting from the component is sensitive to small application of IFRIC 14 and considering committed minimum funding movements in the input requirements, as prepared by the actuary managements expert, by assumptions which could independently modelling the calculation including corroborating the materially change the valuation.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ibstock plc continued The scope of our audit Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the Tailoring the scope audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to Materiality form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes in the business the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent each entity.
The group operates from four trading entities, three in the UK and We determined materiality for the group to be 3.6m 2.0m, one in the US.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to which is approximately 5% of Profit before tax before exceptional the group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate items 2015: 2% of Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial amortisation before exceptional items.
Profit before tax before statements, we performed an audit of the complete financial exceptional items for the year is 82.1m as per the Income information full scope of the trading components Ibstock Brick, Statement in the consolidated financial statements.
In the prior Forticrete, Supreme all located in the UK and Glen-Gery located period Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation in the US.
and before exceptional items was considered to be the key We also performed full scope procedures on the Figgs head office performance indicator of the group due to the focus of entities, comprising various holding companies in the group stakeholders during the IPO and the level of non-recurring structure together the Figgs companies.
With one full year as a listed group a materiality based on the Profit before tax before exceptional Our scoping approach is consistent with the prior year.
All items of the group is deemed more appropriate and is consistent components were designated full scope and resulted in 100% with other listed companies.
The increase in materiality is primarily coverage of the groups Revenue, Profit before tax before due to the increase in Profit before tax before exceptional items.
exceptional items, Exceptional items and Total assets 2015: 100% coverage of the groups Revenue, Profit before tax before exceptional items, Exceptional items and Total assets.
Starting basis 110.9m profit before tax as per the Involvement with component teams Annual Report and Accounts In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, Adjustments or by component auditors from other EY global network firms 28.7m adjusted for exceptional items as per note 5 of the operating under our instruction.
Of the full scope components, Annual Report and Accounts audit procedures were performed on Ibstock Brick by the primary team and on Forticrete, Supreme and Glen-Gery by three component teams.
We determined the appropriate level of primary team involvement in the work of the component team to enable us Materiality to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a 3.6m represents approximately 5% of the profit before tax basis for our opinion on the group as a whole.
before exceptional items The primary team interacted regularly with each of the component teams, where appropriate, during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
A team planning event was held During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and at which senior audit team members of the primary team and determined that there was no change in the final materiality from component teams each attended to discuss the key risks and our original assessment at planning.
A senior member of the primary team attended the closing meeting of each of the component audits.
These procedures, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 81 Performance materiality Scope of the audit of the financial statements The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable misstatements exceeds materiality.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate assessment of the groups overall control environment, our to the groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and judgement was that performance materiality was set at 50% of our have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the planning materiality, being 1.8m 2015: 50%, 1.0m.
We have set reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the performance materiality at this percentage due to our past audit.
Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that the total In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in uncorrected and undetected audit differences did not exceed our the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies planning materiality of 3.6m for the financial statements as a whole.
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of undertaken based on a percentage of total performance performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group our report.
as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current period, performance materiality Respective responsibilities of Directors allocated to components was: and Auditor m 2016 2015 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 47, the Directors are responsible for the Ibstock Brick 1.50 0.90 preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that Forticrete 0.50 0.30 they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Supreme 0.80 0.45 express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Glen-Gery 0.88 0.45 Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Figgs companies 0.35 0.20 Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, The increase in allocation year on year is as a result of the higher in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act performance materiality of 1.8m 2015: 1.0m.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state Reporting threshold to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the An amount below which identified misstatements are considered fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume as being clearly trivial.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to or for the opinions we have formed.
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 180,000 2015: 100,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well Opinion on other matters prescribed by the as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Companies Act 2006 reporting on qualitative grounds.
In our opinion: We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light n the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and n based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
