Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 71 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC Our audit approach REPORT ON THE Overview FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The judgements that have the greatest effect on the nature, extent and timing of our audit procedures materiality, scoping Our opinion and the key areas of audit focus are summarised here and In our opinion: explained in detail below.
ICAP plcs Group financial statements and Company financial Overall Group materiality: statements the financial statements give a true and fair view 10.1 million which represents 5% of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at of continuing and discontinued profit Materiality 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups before tax, acquisition and disposal and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: costs and exceptional items.
We conducted an audit of the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Audit scope complete financial information of in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 13 individually financially significant IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: business reporting units.
the Company financial statements have been properly Areas of Additional business reporting units prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European focus were selected to increase the level Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the of audit evidence for each account Companies Act 2006: and balance, on which a combination of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance controls testing and substantive tests with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, of detail were undertaken.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Business reporting units that are not the IAS Regulation.
subject to specific audit procedures are still subject to audit work on What we have audited entity level controls and Group level The financial statements, included within the Annual analytical review procedures over Report, comprise: their financial information.
the consolidated and Company balance sheets as The areas of focus for our audit to which at 31 March 2016: we allocated the greatest amount of the consolidated income statement and consolidated our resources and effort were: statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: sale of IGBB: the consolidated and Company statement of cash flows presentation and disclosure of for the year then ended: exceptional items: the consolidated and Company statement of changes goodwill impairment assessment: and in equity for the year then ended: and fraud in revenue recognition.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other The scope of our audit and our areas of focus explanatory information.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
statements and are identified as audited.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the estimates that involved making assumptions and considering preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias Act 2006, and applicable law.
by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 72 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC continued The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Sale of IGBB On 11 November 2015, ICAP reached an agreement to sell We understood managements rationale for both the held for IGBB the disposal group to Tullett Prebon plc.
The agreement sale determination and the classification of IGBB as a disposal is still subject to fulfilment of conditions of execution and group.
We focused on the key judgements taken, specifically approval by the responsible authorities.
Until the conditions that management is committed to the plan to sell, the sale is are met, the business will remain part of ICAP and will continue highly probable and is expected to complete within one year to contribute to the Group results.
from the date of classification.
Through our review of the sale and purchase agreement, review of publicly available documents As a result of the Transaction, management is required to and discussions with management we were satisfied that consider if this met the held for sale criteria which include a managements accounting assessment was appropriate.
number of judgements in relation to both measurement and disclosure requirements.
We have focused on the held for sale We obtained and evaluated managements valuation assessment classification and whether the disposal was measured at the of IGBB to confirm that the disposal group was classified as held lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
for sale at the lower of the carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
Supporting calculations were tested to check that only We also considered whether IGBB operations and cash flows the appropriate assets and liabilities of the entities and business were clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial as specified in the agreement were considered.
The carrying reporting purposes, leading to the results of IGBB being shown value was the lower amount and this was used to report the as discontinued in the income statement for both the current assets and liabilities as held for sale.
We found no material and prior period.
We also assessed the accuracy and completeness of assets and liabilities moved to held for sale by ensuring that they were included in the IGBB disposal group as per the sale and purchase agreement.
In doing this we also assessed whether the operations and cash flows of the disposal group were clearly distinguishable.
We also assessed the prior year comparatives and whether they have been accurately restated and presented on a consistent basis in accordance with IFRS5.
We did not find any material exceptions.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 4.
Presentation and disclosure of exceptional items Assessment of the Groups performance generally focuses We understood managements basis for determining whether on trading profit, being operating profit before acquisition or not expenses incurred in relation to the Transaction fell and disposal costs and exceptional items.
This is the fourth within the classification of exceptional items as described in consecutive year that ICAP has incurred and reported the accounting policy.
exceptional costs, although the nature of these costs has We selected a sample of expenses that had been identified as varied from year to year.
exceptional items and, based on our understanding of the accounting As part of the sale of IGBB, ICAP plc incurred various policy and understanding of the Transaction, we formed our own Transaction costs, principally professional services costs judgement as to whether they were appropriately presented and and costs of contractors and temporary staff that have disclosed in exceptional items.
We found no material exceptions.
been included in the exceptional items column.
We focused We examined the Groups disclosures in respect of exceptional on the risk that these costs did not meet the criteria to items, considering the correlation between the narrative provided be classified as such as set out in the accounting policy on and the underlying expenses incurred and determined that this page 85, which could have an impact on the disclosed appropriately reflected the nature of the underlying expenses.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 3.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 73 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill We examined the forecasts of future cash flow prepared by balance and because the directors assessment of the carrying management, by comparing them to the latest board approved value of the Groups cash generating units CGUs involves budgets and by comparing the current year results with the judgements about the future results of the business and the equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast to test discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts.
To determine the recoverable value of the IGBB CGU, we re-performed the computation We also considered the carrying value based on the fair value of the fair value less costs to sell.
We found no material less costs to sell for the IGBB CGU.
During the period, due to the closure of an e-commerce We challenged the directors key assumptions for discount and development business the directors recorded a goodwill long-term growth rates using our knowledge of the business, impairment charge of 3 million which has been classified future strategy and past performance and by comparing rates as an exceptional item.
used to past results and external data where available.
We found no material exceptions in these tests.
We performed independent The annual impairment process did not result in any additional sensitivity analyses, making adjustments to the assumptions.
This impairment being taken during the period.
exercise did not identify any impairment as there is a considerable margin of safety across all the variables in each of the CGUs.
We also challenged the write-off of goodwill of 3 million being recorded as an exceptional item rather than in acquisition and disposal costs.
We agreed with the classification as an exceptional item and with managements conclusion that the closing of a business is an exceptional event and therefore sufficiently different to prior years impairment charges.
The appropriateness of disclosures made in relation to goodwill was also reviewed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 14.
Fraud in revenue recognition We focused on the accuracy and timing of the recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating and the presentation in the income statement of: effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy and timing of commissions and fees recognised in the financial statements.
commissions from the Groups Global Broking business: We tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems used brokerage and access fees from its Electronic Markets by the Group and its financial ledgers and journal entries posted business: and to revenue accounts to help identify unusual or irregular items.
fees from the provision of Post Trade Risk and Information.
We then perfomed testing over these amounts to ensure that they should be recognised as revenue.
No execeptions were These revenue streams are dependent on the fulfilment found in the sample selected.
of contractual obligations which may involve subjective We also tested the timing of revenue recognition, assessing estimation with regard to stage completion and are subject whether the necessary contractual obligations had been fulfilled to manual intervention which could result in revenue being by taking a sample of revenue transactions and agreeing them recognised inappropriately.
back to contracts and did not find any exceptions.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 1.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 74 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Overall Group 10.1 million 2015: 11.45 million.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic materiality structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
How we 5% of continuing and discontinued determined it profit before tax, acquisition and The Group reports its operating results and financial position disposal costs and exceptional items.
along three business lines, being Electronic Markets, Post Trade Risk and Information and Global Broking.
Rationale for We based materiality on continuing benchmark and discontinued profit before tax, The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these applied acquisition and disposal costs and business lines, which comprise 169 separate legal entities located exceptional items.
The acquisition in 34 countries, and the Groups centralised functions.
and disposal costs and exceptional We identified 13 reporting units across the Global Broking and items are significant and are expected Electronic Markets legal entities and centralised functions that, in to be discrete and non-recurring in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information nature and thus are not considered due to their size.
As part of our planning procedures, the Group to be indicative of the underlying engagement team visited the UK and US component teams the performance of the business.
The two most significant countries in the Group.
Specific audit removal of these items mitigates undue procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed volatility in determining our materiality at a further seven reporting units either due to their size, or their and provides an appropriate materiality risk characteristics, which included the two largest entities in the level giving more consideration to the PTRI segment, located in Sweden and Israel.
scale of the financial position and operations of ICAP plc.
The 20 reporting units accounted for 78% of Group Total Income and 97% of Group Total Assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the 2015: 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount Group and the Company financial statements as a whole.
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Materiality Going concern The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statement, set out on page 58 in relation to going concern.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to We have nothing to report having performed our review.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the to the directors statement about whether they considered it effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the statements as a whole.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 75 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 58, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the Code, that they We have no consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the exceptions to report.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: and the section of the Annual Report on pages 48 to 50, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated exceptions to report.
by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including material to add or those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated: and material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so material to add or and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a to draw attention to.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 76 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Responsibilities for the financial statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of statements and the audit the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement Our responsibilities and those of the directors in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted Statement set out on page 57, the directors are responsible of making enquiries and considering the directors process for the preparation of the financial statements and for being supporting their statements: checking that the statements satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the considering whether the statements are consistent with the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and explanations received only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no to you if, in our opinion: other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other we have not received all the information and explanations person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands we require for our audit: or it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior adequate accounting records have not been kept by the consent in writing.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or What an audit of financial statements involves the Company financial statements and the part of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts directors remuneration report to be audited are not in and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give agreement with the accounting records and returns.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Directors remuneration and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion applied and adequately disclosed: In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with by the directors: and the Companies Act 2006. the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration directors judgements against available evidence, forming specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the arising from this responsibility.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other Corporate governance statement auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
the corporate governance statement relating to ten further We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Rowland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 May 2016
