INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL IG Group Holdings plcs financial statements comprise: STATEMENTS the Group and Company Statements of Financial Position as at OUR OPINION 31 May 2016 In our opinion: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of IG Group Holdings plcs Group financial statements and Comprehensive Income for the year then ended Company financial statements the financial statements the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the then ended Companys affairs as at 31 May 2016 and of the Groups profit the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year the year then ended then ended the notes to the financial statements, which include a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared summary of significant accounting policies and other in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the the Company financial statements have been properly Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the identified as audited.
Companies Act 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance preparation of the financial statements is IFRSas adopted by the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Company as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions IASRegulation of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview We present below an overview of our audit approach, the details of which are considered within our audit report: Overall Group materiality: 10 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Materiality The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches containing the operating businesses of both the UK and overseas territories.
The accounting records for both the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained and controlled by the Group finance team in London.
Audit scope We have determined the appropriate work to perform based on the consolidated balances of the Group.
As a result, the audit work was primarily performed by the Group audit team in London, reflecting the centralised nature of the business.
focus Risk of management override of internal controls, incorporating super-user access to IT systems relevant to the financial reporting process.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
102 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS We focused firstly on testing the control environment in which REVENUE RECOGNITION revenue is recorded.
In particular we tested controls directly The Group provides its clients access to a broad range of associated with revenue transaction reporting, and the valuation financial markets, predominantly through spreadbetting and of year-end positions held by clients with the Group.
also tested controls associated with cash reconciliations and The Groups trading revenue predominantly comprises net reconciliations with external counterparties through the year.
revenues from these spreadbetting and CFD transactions placed We agreed all cash accounts to external third party evidence at by clients, and the net gains or losses from the hedging trades year-end through a combination of independent confirmations that the Group places with external counterparties to manage and examination of bank statements, and amounts and positions its risk.
held with hedging counterparties to external third party evidence.
All of the client trading transactions and the Groups related Finally, to address the risk that improper adjustments or hedging transactions are recorded in the Universe system, and transactions had been entered into the trading systems, we the net position at each month end is recorded in the Oracle reviewed client activity reports and read a sample of customer general ledger.
complaints, as well as testing a sample of accounts for authenticity to identify any instances where revenue might have been improperly recognised.
We identified a number of exceptions in our testing of the control environment, but have performed sufficient additional procedures to conclude that they do not have a material impact on revenue.
We understood and tested key controls in place over the RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL financial reporting process.
Specifically, in relation to information CONTROLS INCORPORATING SUPER-USER technology, we performed testing of the IT general controls ACCESS TO UNIVERSE related to Universe, including access rights.
Additionally we International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & tested the controls mitigating the risks relating to Universe Ireland require that we consider this to be a significant risk as super-user access including controls that would identify management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud, because unexpected changes to data which could impact the financial of their ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare statements, and reconciliations of Universe reports to external fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that third party sources including broker and bank reconciliations.
We otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
did not identify any material exceptions.
Although management is responsible for safeguarding the We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by management assets of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a and the preventative and detective controls in place in the Group reasonable expectation of detecting material misstatements in with no material exceptions noted from our testing.
We tested the financial statements and accounting records.
the appropriateness and authorisation of journal entries that we Specifically in relation to information technology, the risk relates identified as unusual and no issues arose from this work.
to super-user access to Universe, the main client ledger system, We examined significant one-off transactions and considered by certain individuals in order to perform their role.
Those their accounting treatment with no exceptions arising.
We individuals have an opportunity to commit and conceal fraud.
also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our testing approach.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE MATERIALITY We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and the industry in which the Group operates.
and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements subsidiary entities and branches containing the UK and overseas as a whole.
The accounting records for the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained by the Group finance team in London.
As a result, the audit work was primarily performed by the Group audit team in London.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 10 million 2015: 8.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, as it is the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is measured.
103 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw them misstatements identified during our audit above 508,000 attention to.
2015: 420,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, As noted in the Directors Statement, the directors have in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis GOING CONCERN presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do Statement, set out on page 100, in relation to going concern.
We so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements have nothing to report having performed our review.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these to the directors statement about whether they considered it statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & IRELAND REPORTING UNDER ISAS UK & IRELAND WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 101, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to report arising from to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members this responsibility.
to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 92 to 93, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated to report arising from by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE VIABILITY OF THE GROUP UNDER ISAS UK & IRELAND WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF WE HAVE ANYTHING MATERIAL TO ADD OR TO DRAW ATTENTION TO IN RELATION TO: the directors confirmation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, add or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to managed or mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have add or to draw attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
104 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED INVOLVES Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and in our opinion: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations we misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an require for our audit: or assessment of: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently received from branches not visited by us: or applied and adequately disclosed: the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with by the directors: and the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors remuneration report financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 opinion We test and examine information, using sampling and other In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Companies Act 2006. audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report audited financial statements and to identify any information that is arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Corporate governance statement the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions our report.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL Darren Meek Senior Statutory Auditor STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE London DIRECTORS 19 July 2016 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 101, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
105 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Our information technology audits provide assurance on the Groups IT control environment, further ensuring data integrity and reducing financial reporting risks.
Amjad Ghalib IT Internal Audit Manager 106 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL PRIMARY STATEMENTS STATEMENTS 1.
Presentation, critical accounting estimates GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 108 andjudgements 2.
Underlying results for the year ended 31 May 2015 GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVEINCOME 108 3 a.
Other operating income STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 109 4.
Segment information STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 110 5.
Auditors remuneration CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 112 7.
Liquidity analysis and risk management 20.
Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts 29.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS 40.
Accounting policies 107 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
