OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion, Imperial Brands PLCs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2016: The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Context The context for our audit was set by Imperial Brands PLCs major activities in 2016.
The principal development which affected our audit was the full year impact of the prior year acquisition in the USA, as a result of which we consolidated our component team in the USA into a single location.
Overview Overall group materiality: 123 million which represents approximately 4 per cent of adjusted group profit before taxation.
MATERIALITY Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement we selected 22 reporting entities for full scope audits which represent the principal business units.
We conducted full scope audit work at 22 of these reporting entities which included significant operations in the UK, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, USA, Australia, France and five other locations.
We also conducted AUDIT SCOPE specific audit procedures in Russia.
In addition certain central reporting entities and group functions, including those covering treasury, taxation and retirement benefits, and the Parent Company were subject to a full scope audit.
AREAS OF FOCUS Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment.
Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls and fraud in revenue recognition, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC CONTINUED AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment We challenged the Directors analysis around the key drivers of the cash We focused on this area because the determination of whether flow forecasts including the ability to achieve sustained price increases, elements of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired involves market size and market share.
We also evaluated the appropriateness of complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the the key assumptions including discount rates, short-term and long-term future results of the relevant parts of the business.
growth rates and performed sensitivities across the reporting segments.
At 30 September 2016 the Group had 12,098m of goodwill and For the Russian and Italian businesses we considered the impact of 594m of intangible assets with indefinite lives and reasonable investment in marketing programmes over the medium-term forecast, headroom in the majority of the Groups groupings of cash together with the broader potential to grow profits in the longer term.
also considered the impact of current and expected legislative and duty changes on the business and considered the accuracy of managements We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting current year forecasts.
segment 2,269m of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Growth Markets is made up of a number of For the Other Premium Cigar CGU, we evaluated the reasonableness operating segments and individual CGUs, including the Drive of the Directors forecast by challenging key assumptions about growth Growth CGU grouping and the Other Premium Cigar CGU strategies including supply constraints, regulatory changes in key grouping.
For both of these goodwill is analysed separately markets, opportunities in new markets and changes in the relationship and managements assessment indicated low headroom between the USA and Cuba.
We also considered the accuracy of 210m and 100m respectively.
For the Drive Growth CGU grouping we focused on the valuation of As a result of our work we determined that the judgement by both the Russian and Italian businesses, which represent the most management that no impairment was required in respect of Drive material parts of this CGU grouping.
In particular we considered Growth and Other Premium Cigar was reasonable.
We note however the robustness of short term growth included in the impairment that goodwill and intangibles held by these businesses remain sensitive models, together with discount rates and long term growth rates.
to changes in key assumptions.
In particular, for Drive Growth, a failure to achieve the growth objectives for planned market initiatives could For the Other Premium Cigar CGU grouping the valuation is give rise to an impairment.
Given this management has disclosed dependent on continuing steady profit growth.
As such we focused relevant sensitivities see note 11. on the assumptions the Directors made about the growth rates in the context of constraints which could reasonably impact their ability to meet forecast.
Accounting for restructuring provisions The cost optimisation programme operates predominantly through The group has continued in its significant multi-year cost a series of distinct projects incorporating centralised governance and optimisation programme including factory closures, project management supporting local execution.
This process gives rise to organisational rationalisation and the establishment of shared a series of specific restructuring charges being booked either at head office service centres.
The group also continues to integrate its US level or in individual component businesses.
We conducted audit testing businesses.
Management has indicated they expect these through our group team on centrally held charges and through local programmes will require several years to complete.
testing of charges at component businesses.
Because the total restructuring cost also included some costs incurred at business units not included in In 2016 the charge in the Consolidated Income Statement relating our full scope audits the Group team tested these on a sample basis.
to these programmes was 307m and there is a total restructuring provision held on the Consolidated Balance Sheet of 304m.
Using this approach we tested the valuation, accuracy and completeness of The restructuring charge is separately identified on the face the individual restructuring costs.
These primarily consisted of redundancies of the income statement and excluded from the non-GAAP and related costs, consulting and professional fees and asset impairments.
earnings measure Adjusted Operating Profit.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
The recognition of restructuring costs requires judgement The principal areas of judgement underlying this work related to: to estimate the value and timing of net economic outflows the estimation of uncertain liabilities and impairment losses, and the extent to which the Group is externally committed.
the extent to which costs incurred on projects were sufficiently distinct The presentation in the financial statements also requires and incremental to warrant inclusion in the restructuring charge and, consideration of whether the amounts included in the charge projects which did not fit readily into the major elements of the are fair and whether their separate presentation is helpful programme but were considered by management to be appropriate in understanding financial performance.
for inclusion within the overall restructuring charge.
We challenged management over the basis for their judgements in these areas and determined that the amounts included in the charge were reasonable.
We also considered the merits of separate disclosure of the restructuring charge and discussed this with management and the audit committee.
We concurred with their conclusion that the extensive scale and cost of the programme, its duration over several years and the level of centralised group wide control and board focus, indicated that separate disclosure was acceptable.
76 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 76 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Tax accounting and the level of tax provisions held against risks In the calculation of deferred taxes, we assessed the adequacy of tax There are a number of significant judgements involved in the loss recognition and the level of provision established in relation to determination of tax balances, specifically in relation to the a number of uncertain tax positions primarily in Europe including recognition of tax losses and the assessment of deferred taxation the challenge from the French tax authorities in relation to Altadis liabilities in relation to the distribution of reserves held in overseas Distribution France.
We determined that the position adopted in the subsidiaries.
The group also has a number of uncertain tax financial statements was reasonable based on our consideration of positions in relation to which management apply judgement managements assessment of risks combined with their use of experts in setting provisions.
in support of their provision for uncertain tax outcomes.
We also considered the reasonability of the tax losses recognised.
Given the number of judgements involved and the complexities of dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous We considered the overall clarity of disclosure in relation to tax jurisdictions, this was an area of focus for us.
provisioning and the discussion of contingent liabilities including Altadis Distribution France and a more general assessment of cross border transfer pricing and determined that they were fair and proportionate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and Logistics.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of 278 legal entities represented by 224 reporting entities, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
The groups accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the territories in which the Group operates.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol through an integrated consolidation system.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, 22 of the 224 reporting entities, including the Logistics sub-group, required an audit of their complete financial information and we used component auditors from other PwC network firms, and other firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this audit work.
We also conducted specific audit procedures in Russia based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at this business unit.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The group engagement team visits the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the Group team visited the USA, Morocco, Germany, Sweden and Greece, as well as in-scope UK reporting locations.
Video conferences were held at least once with the component auditors and management of every in-scope reporting entity and those undertaking specific procedures to discuss the results of the work performed.
In addition the Group engagement team reviewed working papers of the auditors of the more significant components.
We also met the other auditors used on the logistics sub-group and reviewed their working papers during the year.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included derivative financial instruments, net investment hedge accounting, treasury, taxation and retirement benefits.
The Parent Company was also subject to a full scope audit.
Taken together, the reporting entities and group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 82 per cent of group revenues and in excess of 90 per cent of both group profit before tax and group adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 123 million 2015: 115 million.
How we determined it Approximately 4 per cent of adjusted group profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that adjusted profit before tax is the primary measure used by shareholders and other users in assessing the performance of the Group, and that by excluding items it provides a clearer view on the performance of the underlying business.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was for each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million and 40 million for the trading entities and 80 million for the financing and treasury entity.
com 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC CONTINUED We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2015: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 19, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors Statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 33, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 39 to 43, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 32 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would material to add or to threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 32 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
78 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 78 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Imperial Brands PLC for the year ended 30 September 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
John Maitland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 8 November 2016 www.
