Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the parent company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report In our opinion, Inchcape plcs parent company financial to you if, in our opinion: statements the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view of the state of the parent we require for our audit: or companys affairs as at 31 December 2016: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and not been received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the financial statements and the part of the Directors of the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement What we have audited with the accounting records and returns.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
comprise: the Company statement of financial position as at 31 Directors remuneration December 2016: Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Company statement of changes in equity for the year to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance then ended: and with the Companies Act 2006. the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Other Companies Act 2006 reporting explanatory information.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the audit the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities set out Disclosure Framework and applicable law United Kingdom on pages 79 to 80, the Directors are responsible for the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Other required reporting Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Consistency of other information and compliance with financial statements in accordance with applicable law and applicable requirements ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Companies Act 2006 reporting the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in the information given in the Strategic Report and the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these statements are prepared is consistent with the financial opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other statements: and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed prepared in accordance with applicable legal by our prior consent in writing.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
170 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 170 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2017 www.
