Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Inchcape plcs Group financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated income statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the accounting policies the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 17.5 million which represents 5% of profit before taxation and Materiality exceptional items.
We conducted our work in 19 countries covering 27 reporting units.
Audit scope The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 94% of the Groups revenues and 94% of the Groups profit before taxation.
Areas of focus Manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
146 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 146 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and Goodwill impairment assessment the process by which they were drawn up, including testing Excluding the recent acquisition of Indumotora, Inchcape plc the underlying calculations and comparing them with the has 333.8 million of goodwill generated from Cash latest Board approved budgets.
We challenged: Generating Units CGUs spanning five main countries as at 31 December 2016.
The risk is that this balance is overstated.
projected vehicle volume and margin forecasts over the next five years by comparing them with external industry For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination of forecasts, where available, and historical and current recoverable amount, being the higher of value in use and fair results: value less costs to dispose, requires judgements on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable the long-term growth rate used to extrapolate the cash amounts are based on managements view of future trading flows beyond year five the period covered by Board performance and profitability and the most appropriate approved forecasts into perpetuity, by comparing them discount and long term growth rates.
As required by with historical results and wider industry forecasts: and accounting standards, management tests all CGUs the discount rate, by independently calculating the cost of containing goodwill for impairment on an annual basis.
capital for the Group and any country risk premia.
As described further in note 11, management has recorded We evaluated the historical accuracy of budgets and an impairment charge of 24.9 million against the goodwill in forecasts, for example, comparing the budgets used in the its Lithuania and Estonia CGUs, which represented the prior year value-in-use model against the actual performance remaining goodwill for each CGU.
of the business in the current year.
These procedures enabled us to assess the accuracy of the forecasting process.
Where the difference between the value in use calculations and the carrying value of the CGU was more limited, we undertook downside sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions which were determined to be revenue growth and margins and we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment charge would have to be recognised.
For the Lithuania and Estonia CGUs, where the assets are now recorded at their recoverable amount, we calculated the extent to which managements assumptions would have to change for the impairment charge of 24.9 million to be materially misstated.
We satisfied ourselves as to the reasonableness of the assumptions used and judgements made by management in determining the recoverable amount of each of the five main CGUs.
We also confirmed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements.
Manufacturers bonuses and rebates In certain markets, principally the UK, the Group receives We understood and evaluated the controls and processes rebates which are based in part on sales targets set by the with respect to manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
The Group is also We reconciled the total of all credit notes received during the entitled to further OEM bonuses and rebates dependent on year from the OEMs to the amount recognised as income achieving other targets including non-financial metrics.
On a sample basis, we tied through the quantum of these amounts is material.
amounts recognised as income from the credit note through The manufacturers bonuses and rebates are usually to the actual cash received in the bank statement.
determined by the OEMs and have varying terms, the majority For bonus amounts held in the balance sheet as at 31 of which are governed by annual agreements, whilst others December 2016, we performed subsequent receipts testing to are based on shorter term arrangements entered into during the extent possible, agreeing the amounts recognised from the year.
the credit note through to the cash received in the bank We focused on this area as the amounts are material and statement.
because not all bonuses and rebates are directly linked to We also recalculated a sample of the year end accrued quantitative measures, which means that the recognition of bonus accruals using the communication from the OEM and some of these amounts requires management judgement the data used in our audit of revenue.
and estimation in determining whether they have been To address the risk that income had been recorded in the earned as at the balance sheet date.
incorrect period, on a sample basis we agreed the information on the credit note on a vehicle by vehicle basis back to audited revenue information to validate the bonus had been earned in the correct period.
No significant issues were identified during our testing.
com 147 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of inventory As at 31 December 2016, inventory of 1.5 billion was held We considered the Groups past trading performance, across multiple locations.
Inventory is recorded at the lower of including testing the levels of losses incurred on vehicle sales cost and net realisable value, being selling price less historically and subsequent to the year-end, to evaluate the estimated selling costs.
level of provisioning and to assess the reasonableness and accuracy of managements provisioning methodology.
As gross margins on sales of vehicle inventory can be low and inventory is sometimes sold at a loss, provisions are recorded We established that the inventory provisions were reasonable against inventory to write it down to managements best by recalculating the inventory provisions in each country, estimate of its recoverable amount.
Management has using the provisioning policy, and comparing the results with established a formal provisioning policy based on historical the actual provision level.
performance and their future trading forecasts.
We also verified the completeness and accuracy of any additional provisions made by management outside of its standard policy where specific events or circumstances warranted additional provisioning.
Our testing confirmed that the provisions were reasonable.
Restructuring costs Exceptional costs totalling 24.8 million have been recorded in For employee related costs we ensured that a valid the final quarter of 2016 relating to a global restructuring expectation had been raised prior to year end through project principally consisting of employee and property corroboration to public announcements and review of related expenses.
communication to the impacted individuals.
Determining whether the costs recorded as exceptional are We assessed the accuracy of the amounts recorded through directly related to the restructuring program is judgemental.
review of cash paid to employees where possible and through review of supporting documentation such as employee Given the restructuring programme was announced close to contracts.
year end, we have also focused on assessing whether the recognition criteria for recording restructuring provisions have We established that the property related provisions were been met in the current period and the judgements reasonable by corroborating managements calculations to underpinning their valuation.
supporting evidence such as third party estimates for reinstatement costs, rental agreements for onerous lease provisions and agreeing accelerated depreciation and impairment charges to the underlying books and records of the company.
To ensure the costs classified as exceptional are directly related to the restructuring program, we held discussions with senior management of the group to understand the scope of the restructuring program and to confirm that the employee related costs relate to permanent reductions in headcount.
Our testing confirmed that the provisions were reasonable and that their classification as exceptional was in line with the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items.
148 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 148 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Indumotora acquisition On 22 December 2016, the Group completed the acquisition We obtained a detailed listing of the acquisition related costs of certain operations of Empresas Indumotora S. A. and reconciled them to the underlying books of the Group Indumotora in Chile, Peru, Argentina and Colombia with no significant differences noted.
We agreed a sample of primarily related to the distribution businesses of Subaru and the costs to supporting documentation such as invoices, and Hino.
Goodwill of 51.2 million and intangible assets of 162.4 reviewed the nature of the costs incurred to ensure they were million have been recognised on acquisition primarily relating directly related to the acquisition.
We confirmed that the to the acquired Subaru and Hino distribution agreements.
The inclusion of these costs as exceptional was in line with the classification of the acquired distribution agreements as Groups accounting policy for exceptional items.
We instructed the local statutory auditors in Colombia, Peru A provisional acquisition date balance sheet is disclosed in and Chile to audit and report to us on certain balances in the note 28 reflecting managements best estimates of the fair 31 December 2016 balance sheet.
No issues above our values of the acquired assets and intangibles recognised.
reporting threshold were identified in their work and we were able to reconcile the reporting packages through to the We focused on this areas as there is judgement involved in consolidation with no issues noted.
the identification and valuation of intangible assets.
We engaged PwC Valuation experts to review Managements 8.8 million of acquisition related costs have been presented provisional report on the fair value exercise on the acquisition as exceptional costs in the Group income statement.
balance sheet, including the valuation of the Subaru and Hino distribution agreements.
This review included validating the mechanical accuracy of the valuation model, assessing the appropriateness of the valuation methodology and challenging the key assumptions used in the model with reference to external data where possible.
No significant issues were noted.
We benchmarked the classification of the distribution agreements as indefinite lived to common industry practice, reviewed the length of existing OEM relationships held by the Group and considered the terms of the distribution contracts.
On the basis of the procedures performed, we considered the classification as indefinite lived to be appropriate.
We also confirmed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 28 of the financial statements.
Impairment of iPower software The Group has impaired 23.1 million of IT assets relating to We assessed the accuracy of the impairment charge through the Groups ERP roll out programme.
The impaired assets re-performing managements calculation and agreeing the relate to functionality that has been superseded following balances back to the underlying books of the Group with no changes to the Groups IT strategy.
The related costs have significant issues noted.
To ensure the impairment was recorded in the appropriate As at 31 December 2016, 14.8 million of IT cost relating to the period we verified whether the change in the Groups IT ERP programme is held centrally and is not yet subject to strategy, the triggering event for the impairment, arose in the amortisation.
Management has performed an impairment period through review of supporting documentation such as test and considers the carrying value of this remaining asset to meeting minutes and internal communications.
We consider be fully supportable.
the recording of the impairment in this period to be appropriate.
To obtain comfort over the recoverability of the remaining asset we: reviewed managements roll out plan for the IT systems where costs continue to be held centrally to ensure that these systems are still expected to bring economic benefit to the Group: reviewed the anticipated allocation of central costs to those territories expected to benefit from future roll outs: and where significant, we considered these cost allocations in light of our work performed on goodwill impairment in those territories.
We were satisfied that the remaining balance was recoverable.
com 149 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group structure is organised into four geographic operating segments Australasia, UK and Europe, Asia, and Emerging Markets.
The operating businesses are further categorised into two market channels distribution and retail.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 60 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within the four geographic segments and two market channels and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We conducted our audit work in 19 countries covering 27 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 94% of the Groups revenues and 94% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items.
We instructed and maintained regular contact with the component audit teams we used and evaluated the outcome of their work.
Six components were visited by partners or Directors on the Group team.
This together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, including audit procedures over consolidation adjustments, treasury, post retirement benefit, goodwill and litigation provisions gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 17.5 million 2015: 15.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before taxation and exceptional items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 870,000 2015: 800,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on pages 79 to 80, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
150 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 150 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on pages 79 to 80, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as to report.
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 53, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on pages 84 to 85 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the to add or to draw Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 38 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they to add or to draw have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to attention to.
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com 151 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in the  Report that is described as having been audited.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2017 152 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 152 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016
