GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED We recognise the value that differences bring, including but not The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed limited to difference of gender, age, race, nationality, social inthe Financial Review on pages 56 to 67 and the exposure background, professional and personal experiences and toliquidity risk is discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated preferences.
We comply fully with all national equal opportunities Financial Statements.
legislation, and make recruitment and promotion decisions based The Group sensitises its projections to reflect possible changes in solely on the ability to perform each role.
No individual colleague trading performance and cash conversions, taking into account or potential colleague will receive less favourable treatment on the its substantial deferred revenues 561.5 at 31 December 2016. grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, colour, race, In making its statement on viability on page 24 the Directors religion, nationality or ethnicity.
The Nomination Committees role describe the process they have undertaken to sensitise its on diversity can be found in the Nomination Committee Report forward projections to reflect reasonable worse case scenarios on pages 82 to 84, and Our Talented People on pages 34 to 35 which could arise as a consequence of the most financially contains more information on the Groups approach to material of the Groups principal risks crystallising.
The projections developing and supporting colleagues.
support the view that for the period up to 30 June 2018 the Where a colleagues circumstances change, it is the Companys Group is expected to be able to operate within the level of its policy to do everything reasonably possible to ensure that current financing and meet its covenant requirements for a period asuccessful return to work is facilitated, be it in the same job of one year from the date of the signing of the Groups financial oradifferent role.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
AUDITOR After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this that there are no material uncertainties that may cast significant Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware RUPERT HOPLEY ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Company Secretary Companys auditor is aware of that information.
5 March 2017 Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be proposed atthe forthcoming AGM.
During 2016, the Company conducted an audit tender in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee recommended Deloitte LLP as the best candidate and the Board adopted the resolution in June to appoint DeloitteLLP as the Companys auditor.
GOING CONCERN BASIS Each of the persons who is a Director noted on pages 68 and 69 at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that the Groups business activities, together with the principal risk factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 1 to 67.
As set out on pages 22 to 31 a number of principal risk factors could potentially affect the Groups results and financial position.
In particular, the current economic climate creates uncertainties over the level of demand for the Groups products and services.
The Group adopts extensive business planning and forecasting processes for its trading results and cash flows and updates these forecasts to reflect current trading on a regular basis.
110 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors, whose names are set out on pages 68 and 69, Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and areresponsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial disseminationof financial statements may differ from Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12R, the Directors whose names and for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected roles appear on pages 68 and 69, confirm that, to the best of to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International their knowledge: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and issued by the International Accounting the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared Standards Board.
inaccordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial International Accounting Standard IAS 1 requires that financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings statements present fairly the Companys financial position, financial included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and performance and cash flows for each financial year.
This requires the management report, which is incorporated into the the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and performance of the business and the position of the Company recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework whole, together with a description of the principal risk factors.
for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In addition, each of the Directors at the date of this report In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved considers the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the are also required to: information neccesary for Shareholders to assess the Companys properly select and apply accounting policies: position, performance, business model and strategy.
present information, including accounting policies, in a Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by mannerthat provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: DEREK MAPP provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Chairman specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 5 March 2017 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue asagoing concern.
The Directors are responsible for: keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 andArticle 4 of the IAS Regulation: safeguarding the assets of the Company and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities: and the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCOPING SEE SECTION 3: AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT OF INFORMA PLC The 2016 audit scoping has remained broadly consistent with In our opinion: that from the prior year, with the exception of the inclusion of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state audit procedures on specified balances and transactions related ofthe Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at to Penton Information Services Penton, which was acquired 31December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year bythe Group on 2 November 2016. thenended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Penton contributed 34.0 million to revenue and an operating inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards loss of 28.6 million during the period from acquisition.
The main IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: assets acquired included 833.8 million of Goodwill, 648.2 million the parent company financial statements have been properly of Intangible assets and 114.7 million of deferred tax liabilities net prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally of a deferred tax asset of 46.8 million for brought forward tax Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial losses, all of which are stated on a provisional basis.
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN OUR APPROACH Ireland: and Our preliminary audit scope was discussed with the Audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Committee in July 2016.
Our audit approach is continually with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, reassessed taking into consideration any changes to the Group asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the or the environment in which it operates.
Aside from the scope IASRegulation.
change relating to Penton, there were no significant changes The financial statements that we have audited comprise: toour planned audit approach, which was reviewed again and finalised with the Audit Committee in November 2016. the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors the related notes 1 to 39 to the Consolidated Financial statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern Statements: and basis of accounting contained within Note 2 to the financial the related notes 1 to 11 to the Parent Company statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term FinancialStatements.
viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report onpage 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law We are required to state whether we have anything material to and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial add or draw attention to in relation to: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried the parent company financial statements is applicable law and out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom including those that would threaten its business model, future Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 performance, solvency or liquidity: The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the disclosures on pages 25 to 31 that describe those risks Republic of Ireland.
andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements KEY RISKS SEE SECTION 1: OUR ASSESSMENT about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their The key risks that we identified in the current year were: identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months The timing of revenue recognition: from the date of approval of the financial statements: The recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and the Directors explanation on page 24 as to how they have intangible assets: and assessed the prospects of the Group over the three-year period The accounting for business combinations and acquired to 31 December 2019, why they consider that period to be intangible assets.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue These risks are consistent with the key risks identified in the prior in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the year and no new key risks have been identified in the current year.
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures MATERIALITY SEE SECTION 2: OUR APPLICATION drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OF MATERIALITY The materiality that we used in the current year was 16.5 million, the same as the prior period.
112 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw How the scope of our audit responded to the risk attention to in respect of these matters.
We confirmed our understanding of each of the Divisions business models to ensure that we understood the customer We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis contracts and the sales process.
of accounting and we did not identify any material uncertainties in relation to this conclusion.
However, because not all future events We then confirmed our understanding of the design and or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee implementation of controls and where applicable, such as as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
intheEuropean shared services centre, tested the operating effectiveness of these controls by performing sample transaction INDEPENDENCE walkthroughs of the revenue recording process, from order We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting processing to invoice production through to cash collection.
CouncilsEthical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are This enabled us to design and perform substantive audit independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical procedures to respond to each of the specific risks of material responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have The substantive audit procedures we performed across the entities fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those within our audit scope included: standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
for a sample of transactions, obtaining invoices, payments, exhibitor contracts and evidence of event occurrence to 1.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF determine whether revenue was recognised at the appropriate MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT time, including, for Penton, substantively testing revenue The assessed risks of material misstatement described below recognised between the acquisition date and year end: arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, performing a trend analysis of revenue over the course of the year, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts plotting revenue against the calendar of events and verifying ofthe engagement team.
whether these events had occurred to third party sources: THE TIMING OF REVENUE RECOGNITION for a sample of transactions relating to print or e-book sales Risk description and exhibitions or conferences occurring close to the year end, The specific nature of the risk of material misstatement in revenue examining supporting documentation to determine whether recognition varies across the Groups operating divisions.
The revenue recognition criteria had been met and whether the Groups revenue recognition accounting policies are disclosed in revenue had been appropriately recognised in the period Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements with an analysis ordeferred at the period end: and by revenue stream and by segment in Notes 5 and 6 respectively.
for a sample of subscription transactions, obtaining and reviewing the relevant order confirmations and contracts to validate whether In respect of the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & revenue was properly allocated across the term of the contract Networking Divisions, customers are generally billed in advance in the correct accounting period.
and the key risk in revenue recognition is that revenue from events and conferences might be recognised in the wrong period, Key observations particularly for events held close to year end.
We reported to the Audit Committee that the audit response procedures were performed satisfactorily and we did not In respect of both the Academic Publishing and Business identifyany material exceptions as a result of performing Intelligence Divisions, we identified the risk that the deferral and ouraudit procedures.
release of subscription revenues did not appropriately match the subscription period in customer contracts.
In Academic Publishing, we also identified a key risk relating to sales cut-off, being the sale and recording of revenue from physical book and e-book sales in the period around the year end.
In respect of Penton, we also identified the risk that revenue relating to events and conferences spanning the acquisition datemay have included revenue which was earned prior to the acquisition date, and that revenue relating to 2017 may have inadvertently been recognised in 2016.
In addition, auditing standards identify revenue recognition as a presumed area of potentially fraudulent management manipulation.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC CONTINUED THE RECOVERABILITY OF THE CARRYING VALUE determining whether the growth rates selected by management OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS to compute the terminal values of each CGU were in line with the requirements of the accounting standards, which require Risk description consideration of long-term economic growth rates for relevant As the Group has expanded through acquisition it has recognised territories: goodwill and intangible assets.
At 31 December 2016, total reviewing the models used in the impairment tests for mechanical goodwill and intangible assets were stated at 2,724 million accuracy i. e. with respect to the use of formulae and checking and1,755 million, respectively that the impairment loss recorded was mechanically accurate Where goodwill exists, the accounting standards require that based on the assumptions used: management perform an annual impairment test, to compare the involving our internal valuation specialists to assess the recoverable amount normally based on a value in use approach, appropriateness of the key components of the discount rate an accounting term for the estimated net present value to the calculation: and current owner against the balance sheet carrying value of each considering the reasonableness of sensitivities applied by cash generating unit CGU.
This same impairment test is required management and performing further sensitivity analyses for intangible assets where indicators of potential impairment ontheimpairment models.
Key observations To perform its impairment review, management prepares forecasts We reported to the Audit Committee that the audit response for five years, using the budget for year one, the strategic plan procedures were performed satisfactorily and we did not foryears two and three, and forecast growth rates for years four identifyany material exceptions as a result of performing our and five and then applying a terminal value beyond year five, audit procedures.
using growth factors and discount rates in respect of each cashgenerating unit.
The selection of the growth rates and the THE ACCOUNTING FOR BUSINESS COMBINATIONS discount rate assumptions applied requires judgement and AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS isfundamental to this audit risk.
Risk description The most significant business combination during the year Management discusses the policies and processes in Notes 2, related to Penton, which was acquired on 2 November 2016 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Impairment forconsideration of approximately 1.3 billion.
During 2016, the of assets is identified as a critical accounting judgement in Note 3.
Group also completed eight additional business combinations for Management engages independent valuers to assist in deriving a consideration of approximately 93 million see Note 18 and 22 appropriate discount rates to be used.
asset acquisitions for consideration of approximately 55 million.
In 2016, based on this methodology, impairment charges of Accounting for business combinations and asset acquisitions 67.7million have been recognised 2015: 13.9 million see canbe complex and often requires judgements to be applied and Note8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 31.1 million assumptions to be used when assessing the consideration paid, relating to Global Exhibitions and 36.6 million relating to the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, the identification Knowledge & Networking.
and valuation of acquired intangible assets and any associated How the scope of our audit responded to the risk goodwill that arises see above risk.
We audited the assumptions used in managements impairment Management commissions independent valuation experts to testing of goodwill and other intangible assets.
This included: assist with the identification and valuation of separate intangible considering the process by which management had prepared assets for acquisitions involving consideration at or above its forecasts and identified each CGU: 50million.
testing the design and implementation of controls relating to the In Note 3 the Identification of intangible assets acquired in impairment review process undertaken by management: business combinations is identified as a critical judgement with assessing recent forecasting accuracy against actual performance, the valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible including, for Penton, assessing actual performance since assets noted as a key source of estimation uncertainty.
acquisition to confirm managements view that no impairment indicators were identifiable: determining whether the 2017 budgets for each CGU were consistent with the budgets as adopted by management and approved by the Board of Directors: determining whether the projections for 2018 and 2019 as included in managements three year plan, and for 2020 and 2021 were in line with our understanding of trends in the business and how they compared to external sources of information: 114 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS How the scope of our audit responded to the risk GROUP MATERIALITY We reconfirmed our understanding of the design and 16.5 million 2015: 16.5 million implementation of controls relating to business combinations, BASIS FOR DETERMINING MATERIALITY and then for each material business combination and asset The basis for determining materiality is consistent with the prior acquisition, we reviewed and challenged the acquisition year and has been set as not greater than 5% of statutory pre-tax accounting applied by management.
This included: profit adjusted for impairment charges of 67.7 million 2015: review of the underlying sale and purchase agreement: 13.9 million and amortisation of intangible assets acquired in testing the validity and completeness of consideration to business combinations of 116.7 million 2015: 99.5 million.
theunderlying agreements and consideration paid: RATIONALE FOR THE BENCHMARK APPLIED reviewing the terms of the acquisition to assess whether The adjustments made in determining materiality derive a more components of compensation and remuneration, if any, appropriate and stable measure of performance in the context of hadbeen correctly identified and whether acquisition costs the Groups adjusted profits, a measure used and focused on by hadbeen expensed as required by accounting standards: analysts and other users of the financial statements.
16.5 million auditing the acquisition date balance sheet and resultant fair represents 9.3% of statutory profit before tax 2015: 7.5%.
value movements: engaging Deloitte internal valuations specialists to review and We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all challenge the independent valuation experts report utilised individual audit differences in excess of 750,000 2015: 300,000, bymanagement.
This included assessing the intangible assets as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, identified, the basis for their valuation, and benchmarking the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reasonableness of the key valuation assumptions, such as reporting threshold was made to be a more appropriate level in discount rates, useful economic lives and growth rates: and the context of the overall financial statements.
We also report to evaluating managements resultant assumptions and methodology the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified supporting the fair values of acquired intangible assets.
when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We reported to the Audit Committee that the audit response Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of procedures were performed satisfactorily and we did not identify the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, any material exceptions as a result of performing our audit and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group procedures.
We note that the fair value amounts disclosed within level.
Based on that assessment, we performed full scope and Note 18 are provisional and are subject to finalisation within the directed scoped audit procedures across the principal shared relevant 12 month measurement period from the acquisition as services centres in the UK, USA and Singapore.
We also performed permitted by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
full scope audit procedures on the businesses in Brazil and Germany, and additionally for the 2016 audit we performed These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the auditprocedures on certain specified account balances and financial statements as a whole, and in forming our conclusions transactions in the USA relating to the acquisition of Penton.
and observations thereon, we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The in scope locations represent the principal business units within the Groups five reportable operating divisions and account 2.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY for 74% 2015: 74% of the Groups revenue and 78% 2015: 85% We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the of the Groups adjusted operating profit.
The Group audit also financial statements that makes it probable that the economic obtains coverage of 100% 2015: 100% of both the Groups decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
Our audit work at all the changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the locations in the group audit scope was executed at levels of scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
materiality applicable to each individual entity which was lower Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality than Group materiality and ranged from 8 million to 10 million.
for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 115 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
