STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF INMARSAT PLC IN OUR OPINION: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRS' as adopted by the European Union the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets the Group Cash Flow Statement the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 36 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH KEY RISKS The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Accounting for the Ligado Cooperation Agreement Accuracy, completeness and occurrence of manual adjustments to airtime revenue Take or Pay revenue cut-off Accounting for capitalised development expenditure MATERIALITY The materiality that we used in the current year was $16.7m which was determined on the basis of profit before tax.
SCOPING We have performed full-scope audit procedures for components which contribute over 99% of net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
SIGNIFICANT Last year our report included the risk involved with the implementation of a new global ERP.
This is not included in our report this year CHANGES IN OUR as it was completed in 2015.
Furthermore, last year we included a risk of accuracy and occurrence of subscription of usage-based APPROACH airtime services which in 2016 we refined to be focused on manual adjustments to airtime revenue and expanded the risk definition to include the completeness assertion.
We have made no other significant changes to our audit approach.
106 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Directors' confirmation on pages 50 to 55 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the appropriateness of the going concern basis the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future of accounting contained within note 2 to performance, solvency or liquidity: the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the the disclosures on pages 50 to 55 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed Group contained within the risk management or mitigated: section of the Strategic Report on page 50. the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on pages 50 to 55 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Auditors and confirm that we are independent services referred to in those standards.
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Last year our report included the risk involved with the implementation of a new global ERP.
This is not included in our report this year as it was completed in 2015.
Furthermore, last year we included a risk of accuracy and occurrence of subscription of usage-based airtime services which in 2016 we refined to be focused on manual adjustments to airtime revenue and expanded the risk definition to include the completeness assertion.
Description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 75 to 76.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 107 ACCOUNTING FOR THE LIGADO FORMERLY LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION AGREEMENT Risk description The Group continues to hold a material deferred revenue balance of $197.8m 2015: $208.8m in respect of the Ligado Cooperation Agreement the Agreement.
In March 2016 the agreement was amended resulting in the existing deferred income being recognised against obligations in respect of both Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the Agreement.
The Groups accounting policy in respect of the Agreement is summarised in note 4c to the financial statements.
We have identified a significant risk that the timing and amount of revenue and margin recognition is not in accordance with IFRS with respect to this deferred income since the revenue in respect of Phase 1 of the Agreement is being recognised on a percentage completion basis and the estimate of the future costs to be incurred in respect of Phase 1 are subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty and management judgement.
Last year our risk also included a cut-off risk in respect of Ligado revenue recognition.
Following Ligados emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in December 2015, this is no longer considered to be a significant risk.
How the scope of our We have tested the design and implementation of controls over the recognition of previously deferred revenue in respect of Phase 1 audit responded to the of the Agreement.
risk We have obtained and reviewed the amendment to the Agreement, signed in March 2016, and considered whether the deferred income recognised under the amended agreement is in accordance with the principles of IAS 18.
We have met with senior management throughout the year to corroborate our understanding of the commercial developments with Ligado and to understand any potential impact these may have on accounting for the agreement, as well as any technical and commercial developments which may impact the quantum of future costs incurred.
We have obtained and scrutinised managements analysis of estimated costs to complete, which contains a number of scenarios, challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions which underpin the model and sought evidence to corroborate and understand the key drivers of the calculation through agreeing to third party information where possible and discussions with Inmarsats technical specialists and Inmarsat business unit management.
Further, we performed testing on the revenues recognised and recalculated the deferred income released in respect of Phase 2 of the contract to verify that the appropriate amount of revenue was recognised.
Key observations We concur with the conclusions of managements analysis of the possible scenarios that could unfold over the period of the Ligado contract, along with associated estimates of the costs to complete Phase 1 of the contract under each scenario.
Based on the range of cost outcomes indicated by the cost scenarios, we were satisfied that the cost to complete was sufficiently uncertain that no margin should be recognised on Phase 1 of the contract REVENUE RECOGNITION ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS AND OCCURRENCE OF MANUAL ADJUSTMENTS TO AIRTIME REVENUE Risk description Airtime revenue, both subscription and usage-based, is the largest revenue stream within the business.
This revenue principally relates to I-3 and I-4 services sold on a wholesale and retail basis, along with the resale of capacity from other satellite providers.
Airtime revenue of $822.9m 2015: $845.8m was earned in the year.
Each month manual postings are made to revenue accounts to adjust for items such as deferred revenue, accrued income, sales provisions, bundled transactions and breakage recognised under take or pay agreements to ensure revenue recognition meets the requirements of IAS 18.
Due to the highly material nature of airtime revenue, the high volume of transactions and the inherent risk that manual postings are susceptible to manipulation, a significant risk has been identified that if these postings are not accurate, complete or related to transactions which have occurred, revenue could be materially misstated.
The accounting policy for the recognition of revenue is set out in note 2 to the financial statements and includes the policies on the deferral of revenue and multiple-element contracts.
How the scope of our We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key automated and manual controls relating to the audit responded to the recognition of airtime revenue across the Groups principal billing systems.
risk We have tested the mechanical accuracy of the underlying schedules for a sample of manual postings to determine their completeness and accuracy and whether they are prepared consistently with the principles of IAS 18.
We have met with management, both from within finance and in the market-facing business to discuss results in each business unit and as a whole to evaluate the completeness and occurrence of manual postings.
Additionally, we performed a monthly profit margin analysis by product and business unit and a monthly revenue trend analysis, corroborating and understanding unusual variances.
Further, we used subscriber numbers, usage reports and pricing information in order to develop an independent expectation of airtime revenue by product type to compare to airtime revenue recognised in order to assess the completeness, accuracy and occurrence of recorded revenue.
Key observations The results of our audit testing were satisfactory and we reported no findings to the Audit Committee.
108 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION TAKE OR PAY REVENUE CUT-OFF Risk description A small number of the Groups satellite capacity contracts with customers have a take or pay element.
The accounting policy for such agreements is set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
There is a risk that revenue associated with take or pay arrangements could be recorded in an incorrect period, leading to a material error within the financial statements.
This risk is especially pertinent due to the material nature of these contracts, their non-standard terms, the fact that any new contracts entered into may not necessarily run concurrently with calendar years, and the need to estimate breakage where a customer has not utilised all of the airtime they have contracted to use and pay for.
How the scope of our We have tested the design and implementation of controls around the process of revenue recognition in relation to take or audit responded to the pay agreements.
risk We have obtained and reviewed the underlying contracts for the Groups material take or pay agreements.
We have considered the terms of these contracts to evaluate whether the revenue recognised is in accordance with managements accounting policy and IAS 18 and other accounting standards and guidance.
We have corroborated our understanding of the existence of such take or pay agreements through meeting with senior management both within finance and the market-facing business units to understand the commercial developments during the financial year.
We have discussed all material take or pay contracts with the market-facing business unit leaders to determine whether there are any contracts we are not aware of.
In respect of material contracts we have reviewed the contract to determine whether revenue recognition is in accordance with IAS 18.
We have obtained breakage calculations and recalculated the breakage recognised, including agreeing all material items to invoices and cash payments.
Key observations The results of our audit testing were satisfactory.
We reported no findings to the Audit Committee.
ACCOUNTING FOR CAPITALISED DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Risk description The Group capitalises significant internal labour costs, external costs and qualifying borrowing costs in respect of major capital projects, most notably relating to satellite programmes and associated infrastructure such as the Global Xpress programme, European Aviation Network and the Inmarsat-6 fleet of satellites.
There is a risk in respect of valuation and allocation of assets, that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded on the balance sheet rather than expensed or that costs continue to be held on the balance sheet despite no longer meeting the relevant capitalisation criteria.
The Groups policy on the capitalisation of assets is included in note 2 to the financial statements.
Included in note 13 to the financial statements is property, plant and equipment with a net book value of $2,971.4m, of which $2,037.2m relates to space segment assets and $861.8m relates to assets in the course of construction.
Included in note 14 to the financial statements are intangible assets with a net book value of $796.4m.
As disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements, capitalised borrowing costs totalled $36.1m in the year.
How the scope of our We have tested the design and implementation of the controls in respect of the processes and procedures which govern the audit responded to the capitalisation of development costs.
risk We have met the project leaders for the most financially significant capital projects, which account for 74% of current year capital expenditure, to corroborate the project status, feasibility of completion, and performance against budget, including investigating any deviations from budget.
Furthermore, we have carried out sample-based testing in relation to each element of capitalised costs including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the costs capitalised, understanding the nature of these costs and considering both whether they are consistent with the originally approved budget and meet the capitalisation requirements of IAS 18 and IAS 36.
We reviewed the ageing profile of assets in the course of construction, to determine whether the ongoing technical feasibility and intended completion of the project could be demonstrated.
For a sample of assets which entered service in the period we inspected supporting evidence to determine whether depreciation was commenced at a time in accordance with IAS 16.
In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations and verified the inputs to the calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments.
Additionally, we tested the mechanical accuracy of the model and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised and accounting is therefore in line with the requirements of IAS 23.
Key observations We identified a number of deficiencies in key controls within the capital expenditure cycle, which were reported to the Audit Committee.
As a consequence, we determined we could not rely on the effectiveness of controls in this area to reduce the amount of audit work that we needed to perform.
Our audit testing was completed satisfactorily, and we concur with the judgements management has taken in determining that their capital assets meet the capitalisation criteria of IAS 16 and IAS 38.
We did not identify any audit adjustments.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 109 These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP MATERIALITY $16.7m 2015: $12.4m BASIS FOR We determined materiality based on 5% of forecast profit before tax 2015: 5%, which resulted in 6% of actual profit before tax DETERMINING 2015: 5% or 1% of equity 2015: less than 1%.
MATERIALITY RATIONALE FOR THE Pre-tax profit has been chosen as the basis for determining materiality as we determine this to be the most relevant measure BENCHMARK APPLIED to users of the financial statements.
In previous years we adjusted this base to remove the impact of the earnings volatility arising from the revenue and costs associated with the Ligado Cooperation Agreement.
Given that revenues under Phase 2 of the agreement now represent a recurring multi-year revenue stream we concluded that their inclusion in our determination of materiality is now appropriate.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP MATERIALITY $299.2m $16.7m Group materiality $16.7m Normalised Materiality Component materiality range $5m to $15m profit before tax Audit Committee reporting threshold $0.825m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $825,000 2015: $250,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identify when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work performed in the following locations: London, United Kingdom St. Johns, Canada and Reston, United States With the exception of one specific part of the US Government business, where we used a component audit team, we performed the Group audit with one integrated audit team led from London.
The supervision of the audit team included the London team visiting the members of the audit team located in St. Johns and Reston.
We determined there to be three components in the Group, as follows: the core Inmarsat business unit headquartered in London the US Government retail business in Reston and non-core entities which are not included on the Groups global accounting software, which includes TC Communications based in Sydney, Australia The US Government retail business and non-core entities are considered to be separate components as they had a separate financial control environment during the year.
The core Inmarsat and US Government components were subject to a full scope audit, whilst limited procedures were performed on the non-core component due to its relative financial significance.
110 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED The components subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business units and account for 99.9% 2015: 99.7% of the Groups net assets, 99.7% 2015: 99.3% of the Groups revenue and 99.4% 2015: 99.4% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $5.0m to $15.0m 2015: $5m to $11.1m.
The scope of our audit also included consideration of the Groups longer-term viability statement, which was prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our conclusions in respect of this work are set out above.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Senior statutory auditor visited the US Government component in the current year.
For this component we involved the component audit partner and manager in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from these matters Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit or otherwise misleading In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 111 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
PAUL FRANEK FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 8 March 2017 112 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Revenues 1,329.0 1,274.1 Employee benefit costs 7 267.7 260.4 Network and satellite operations costs 168.6 180.0 Other operating costs 139.9 147.2 Own work capitalised 42.0 39.5 Total net operating costs 534.2 548.1 EBITDA 794.8 726.0 Depreciation and amortisation 6 349.4 311.2 1 Gain on disposal 0.5 9.3 Impairment loss 6 1.2 0.2 Share of profit of associates 15 2.4 2.5 Operating profit 447.1 426.4 Financing income 9 4.3 1.8 Financing cost 9 123.4 90.2 2 Change in fair value of derivative 28.8 Net financing costs 9 147.9 88.4 Profit before tax 299.2 338.0 Taxation charge 10 55.8 56.0 Profit for the year 243.4 282.0 Attributable to: Equity holders 242.8 281.4 3 Non-controlling interest 0.6 0.6 Earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company expressed in $ per share Basic 27 0.54 0.63 Diluted 27 0.53 0.62 Adjusted earnings per share for profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company expressed in $ per share Basic 27 0.65 0.63 Diluted 27 0.64 0.62 1 The gain on disposal of assets in the prior year relates primarily to the gain on disposal of the SkyWave investment.
2 The change in fair value of derivatives relates to the mark-to-market valuation of the conversion liability component of the new convertible bonds due 2023.
3 Non-controlling interest relates to the Group's 51% shareholding in Inmarsat Solutions ehf.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 113 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Profit for the year 243.4 282.0 Other comprehensive income loss Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Transfer to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 9.4 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.1 0.7 Net loss gain on cash flow hedges 26 24.3 2.9 Tax credited directly to equity 10 0.1 1.0 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 28 13.4 3.0 Tax credited charged directly to equity 10 2.6 0.6 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax 34.9 3.8 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 208.5 278.2 Attributable to: Equity holders 207.9 277.6 Non-controlling interest 0.6 0.6 114 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 $ in millions Note 2016 2015 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 2,971.4 2,860.2 Intangible assets 14 796.4 772.0 Investments 15 13.2 12.1 Other receivables 17 11.7 23.4 Deferred tax assets 22 39.3 44.6 Derivative financial instruments 31 0.1 3,832.1 3,712.3 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 16 262.0 177.3 1 Short-term deposits 395.0 Trade and other receivables 17 306.9 324.7 Inventories 18 34.3 25.0 Current tax assets 22 8.5 3.8 Derivative financial instruments 31 1.7 Restricted cash 16 2.8 3.0 1,011.2 533.8 Total assets 4,843.3 4,246.1 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 19 103.8 129.4 Trade and other payables 20 508.3 464.9 Provisions 21 1.9 1.8 Current tax liabilities 22 129.0 123.2 Derivative financial instruments 31 5.9 0.3 748.9 719.6 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 19 2,448.0 2,033.7 Other payables 20 41.5 42.9 Provisions 21 2.8 2.5 Deferred tax liabilities 22 208.3 197.5 Derivative financial instruments 31 153.5 2,854.1 2,276.6 Total liabilities 3,603.0 2,996.2 Net assets 1,240.3 1,249.9 Shareholders equity Ordinary shares 24 0.3 0.3 Share premium 700.4 687.6 Equity reserve 56.9 Other reserves 61.8 71.8 Retained earnings 477.2 432.7 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,239.7 1,249.3 Non-controlling interest 0.6 0.6 Total equity 1,240.3 1,249.9 1 Short-term deposits are cash held on deposit with a maturity of between three and 12 months.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group on pages 112 to 116 were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by: RUPERT PEARCE TONY BATES Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
