102 103 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS GOING CONCERN AND THE INDEPENDENCE REPORT TO THE MEMBERS DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE We are required to comply with the Financial OF INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD Reporting Councils Ethical Standards GROUP PLC THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR for Auditors and we confirm that we are LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP independent of the Group and we have OPINION ON THE PARENT fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in As required by the Listing Rules we have COMPANY FINANCIAL accordance with those standards.
We also reviewed the directors statement regarding STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP confirm we have not provided any of the the appropriateness of the going concern prohibited non-audit services referred to in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS basis of accounting contained within note 3 those standards.
THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the financial statements and the directors OF INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL statement on the longer-term viability of KEY FEATURES OF OUR AUDIT GROUP PLC ICG the Group contained within the corporate governance statement on page 30.
The key risks we identified are: In our opinion: We have nothing material to add or draw 1 Valuation of unquoted equities, the financial statements give a true and fair attention to in relation to: Collateralised Loan Obligation Loan notes view of the state of the groups and of the CLO Loan notes and warrants the directors confirmation on page parent companys affairs as at 31 March 29 that they have carried out a robust 2016 and of the groups profit for the year 2 Impairment of loans and investments assessment of the principal risks facing then ended: 3 Revenue recognition the Group, including those that would the group financial statements have threaten its business model, future 4 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements been properly prepared in accordance performance, solvency or liquidity: IFRS 10 application and interpretation with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the disclosures on pages 3235 that We determined materiality for the Group to describe those risks and explain how they European Union: be 12.2million.
are being managed or mitigated: the parent company financial statements A lower materiality of 3.7million has the directors statement in note 3 to the have been properly prepared in been applied for the fund management financial statements about whether they accordance with IFRSs as adopted by revenue stream.
considered it appropriate to adopt the the European Union and as applied in We reported all audit differences in excess going concern basis of accounting in accordance with the provisions of the of 244,000 to the Audit Committee.
preparing them and their identification of Companies Act 2006: and any material uncertainties to the Groups In addition we also report audit differences the financial statements have been in excess of 72,000 relating to the fund ability to continue to do so over a period prepared in accordance with the management revenue stream.
of at least twelve months from the date of requirements of the Companies Act approval of the financial statements: We performed a full scope audit on 2006 and, as regards the group components representing 93% of the the directors explanation on page 30 as financial statements, Article 4 of the to how they have assessed the prospects Groups profit before tax and 98% of the IAS Regulation.
of the Group, over what period they have The financial statements comprise the done so and why they consider that period Consolidated Income Statement, the OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF to be appropriate, and their statement Consolidated and Parent Company as to whether they have a reasonable MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Statements of Comprehensive Income, expectation that the Group will be able The assessed risks of material misstatement the Consolidated and Parent Company to continue in operation and meet its described below are those that had the Statements of Financial Position, the liabilities as they fall due over the period greatest effect on our audit strategy, Consolidated and Parent Company of their assessment, including any related the allocation of resources in the Statements of Cash Flow and the disclosures drawing attention to any audit and directing the efforts of the Consolidated and Parent Company necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Statements of Changes in Equity and the We agreed with the directors adoption related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting The Audit Committee has requested that of the going concern basis of accounting framework that has been applied in their while not required under International preparation is applicable law and IFRSs and we did not identify any such material Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, uncertainties.
However, because not as adopted by the European Union and, we include in our report any significant all future events or conditions can be as regards the parent company financial findings in respect of these assessed risks of predicted, this statement is not a guarantee statements, as applied in accordance with material misstatement.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The description of risks below should be These matters were addressed in the context See the tables on below for more detail.
read in conjunction with the significant of our audit of the financial statements as a issues considered by the Audit Committee whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, discussed on pages 54 to 56. and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS 1.
VALUATION OF UNQUOTED EQUITIES, CLO LOAN NOTES AND WARRANTS Unquoted equities, CLO Loan notes We assessed the Groups valuation methodology We determined the valuation methodology and warrants represented 504million and engaged with our internal fair value specialists to for the unquoted equity valuations, CLO 11.5% of Group total assets at understand the valuation methodology and challenge loan notes and warrants to be appropriate, 31 March 2016. its appropriateness.
We tested the design and and are satisfied that the assumptions that implementation of related controls to determine that management have made are appropriate and Valuing unquoted equities, CLOs and appropriate oversight from senior investment executives that the valuation at year end is acceptable.
warrants requires management to make had been exercised within the valuations process.
We also a number of judgements, including Unquoted equity and warrants tested the operating effectiveness of controls around valuation methodology and the discount We are satisfied that the key controls around unquoted equity valuations.
or premium applied to unquoted equities the unquoted equity and warrant valuation and the prepayment rate or default We tested a sample of unquoted equities and warrants process are adequately designed and have rates applied to CLOs.
As valuations are by challenging the appropriateness of the underlying been operating as intended during the year.
sensitive to these judgments, there is a assumptions, specifically including discount rates and The sample tested included the use of a risk that small changes in key assumptions comparable companies.
We verified the inputs to the range of premiums and discounts, which can have a significant impact on fair value valuations specifically management information and we considered appropriate in the context and therefore reported results.
earnings multiples by agreeing these to underlying of the fair value of the individual investment supporting documentation and testing their arithmetical being assessed.
We are satisfied that the The valuation techniques and inputs, accuracy.
We assessed the reasonableness of unquoted equities and warrants are not as well as the significant unobservable management estimates in previous valuations by materially misstated.
inputs are disclosed in note 5 to the performing a retrospective review of valuations based on financial statements.
The key sources CLO loan notes recent exits.
We tested a sample of CLO loan notes with of estimation uncertainty in relation to valuations are disclosed in note 4 to the For a sample of CLOs, we recalculated the fair value with a total value of 218million comprising reference to an independent third party cash flow model.
different tranches of debt in CLO vehicles financial statements.
The significant assumptions around the generation by performing our own pricing estimation.
of cash flows from the underlying loan portfolio were Where our base price was within a 5% challenged: specifically: the CPR Constant or Conditional threshold of the Groups we considered Prepayment Rate, the CDR Conditional Default Rate, these valuations to be acceptable.
We found the severity on defaulted loans and the interest margin on that the Groups price of three loan notes reinvestment amounts.
These assumptions were obtained with a total value of 3million was outside from an independent source.
Following further consideration of the valuation assumptions for these investments we concluded that the Groups price fell within an acceptable range.
We are satisfied that the CLO loan notes are not materially misstated.
104 105 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS 2.
IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND INVESTMENTS The Groups impairment charge We tested the design and implementation of key controls We are satisfied that the impairment events represented 8.9million for the year around impairments.
We assessed the completeness occurred in the current financial year and ending 31 March 2016.
See note 10 to the of impairments for loans we deemed at high risk of with managements decision to impair these financial statements.
impairment by reviewing independent information, such assets.
We have found the judgements as publicly available information and investee financial management have made in determining the The identification of impairment events reports for potential impairment triggers.
Where changes quantum of the cash flows, which impact the and the determination of the impairment to repayment dates negatively impacted the carrying value impairment charge, to be appropriate.
charge require the application of of assets, we challenged management as to whether this significant judgment by management, In testing the completeness of impairments indicated an impairment had occurred.
in particular the timing and quantum of we identified one equity investment that is future cash flows.
There is a risk that For a sample of impairments that occurred during the classified as Available for Sale which was management fail to identify an impairment year, we challenged management assumptions relating to being measured at a fair value that differed event and the impairment charge the timing and recognition of the impairment events and from the cost of the investment.
We and the reported is incomplete or incorrectly charges and corroborated them to underlying data: such Audit Committee challenged management calculated.
We reviewed the nature as to whether the decline in the fair value and timing of the sample and assessed the rationale for below cost could be considered objective The Groups impairment policy is the quantum of the impairment charge and recalculated evidence of impairment.
disclosed in note 3 to the financial the impairment charge.
The key sources of estimation Upon further investigation it became uncertainty in relation to impairment We also assessed whether any assets classified as apparent that the Group was valuing are disclosed in note 4 to the financial Available for Sale were impaired and that any losses the asset based on a listed share price statements.
should have been recycled through the Consolidated that did not fully reflect the ownership Income Statement.
structure of ICGs asset nor the underlying performance of the business.
As a result management reconsidered their estimate of fair value and the categorisation of the asset resulting in a 29million uplift with the unrealised gain recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
As a result of this matter we extended our audit procedures and did not identify any matters requiring further investigation.
We are satisfied that there is no material impairment event which occurred during the year that has not been identified by management.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS 3.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Management fees and interest income We tested the design and implementation of key controls Management fees on loans not held in CLOs represented around the revenue cycle.
For a sample of funds we tested Our test of management fees covered fees 95.5million 21% of the Groups revenue management fees by recalculating the fees recorded with earned from the mezzanine, credit and real and 100.7million 22% of the Groups reference to the contractual arrangements e. g. fee rates estate products.
We are satisfied with the revenue.
by assets under management, net asset value or capital inputs into the management fees calculation commitments.
We obtained the assets under management, and that they have been calculated There is a risk that there are errors in net asset value or capital commitments from third party in accordance with their contractual the amounts of the management fees administrator reports and assessed the reliability of the arrangements.
We also assessed a number reported due to the complexity of some of third party administrator by gaining an understanding of of third party administrators of ICG the calculations and the extent of manual its control environment.
We also agreed the receipt of a managed funds and determined they were input into the process.
Also, significant sample of management fees to bank statements.
a reliable source of data for our testing.
We management judgements relating to are satisfied that management fees are not the quantum and timing of cash flows For interest income, we tested the integrity of the materially misstated.
in measuring the loan value may not be calculations by re-performing a sample of interest income consistent with recently available data calculations and comparing these to managements Interest income and as a result interest income may be records.
We agreed the receipt of a sample of interest We noted that in prior periods interest calculated incorrectly.
income throughout the year to bank statements.
We accrued on assets held for sale was not also performed analytical procedures to assess the recognised as there was no material The Groups revenue accounting policy completeness of interest income.
We challenged difference from its recognition on a cash is disclosed in note 3 to the financial managements estimates regarding changes in instrument basis.
Given the increase in the number statements.
repayment dates and amounts through our testing and size of assets held for sale and that of loans.
these assets are now held for longer, it was determined by management to change this from July 2015 so that the interest on these assets was always recognised on an accruals basis.
We are satisfied with managements approach and that any interest income relating to the prior period was immaterial.
We are satisfied that interest income is not materially misstated.
106 107 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RISK DESCRIPTION RESPONDED TO THE RISK FINDINGS 4.
IFRS 10 APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION There is a risk that management do not We tested the design and implementation of key controls The Group invests in certain funds alongside consolidate an entity that they control around the application of IFRS 10 and we challenged the other third party investors, typically in as a result of a restructure or new fund significant judgements that management have exercised the ratio of 20%:80%.
We challenged launch, an increase in equity holdings or a in determining whether the Group controls portfolio management as to whether the key decisions change in legal agreements.
There is also companies, funds, CLOs and other entities.
We reviewed being made while ICG is investment manager a risk that IFRS 10 has been incorrectly managements analysis of the impact of IFRS 10 on of these co-invest funds are being made interpreted and as a result applied portfolio company interests, funds and CLOs and we for ICGs own benefit or for the benefit of incorrectly.
An error in judgement can performed a detailed analysis of any equity interests the investors principal versus agent.
have significant consequences on the in CLOs, funds and portfolio companies greater than If ICG are found to be acting principal of Consolidated Statement of Financial 15%.
We reviewed legal documents to support any a fund, they would control the fund and it Position and the disclosures within the key judgments management have made in determining would require consolidation into the Group financial statements.
whether they control or have significant influence over an financial statements.
One of our key areas of investee e. g. power over relevant activities.
challenge was the ability of others to make The critical judgments in the application significant decisions and whether there of the Groups accounting policy in We have tested the consolidation process to assess were appropriate checks in place so that relation to the control and consolidation whether the conclusions reached have been appropriately ICG would be accountable to investors while are disclosed in note 4 to the financial applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial still making significant decisions that could statements.
Further disclosures of statements and we have assessed the adequacy of the affect both theirs and the investors return.
significant judgements made in relation disclosures in notes 31 and 32 to the financial statements.
to subsidiaries and associates and joint We agree with managements conclusions ventures are notes 31 and 32 to the regarding control and note that the significant judgements have been financial statements.
appropriately disclosed in note 31 and 32 to the financial statements.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED At the parent entity level we tested the OUR APPLICATION OF AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF consolidation process and carried out MATERIALITY OUR AUDIT analytical procedures to confirm our We define materiality as the magnitude of Our group audit was scoped by obtaining conclusion that there were no significant misstatement in the financial statements an understanding of the group and its risks of material misstatement of the that makes it probable that the economic environment, including group-wide aggregated financial information of the decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable controls, and assessing the risks of material remaining components not subject to audit person would be changed or influenced.
misstatement at the group level.
Based on or audit of specified account balances.
We use materiality both in planning the that assessment, we focused our group The group engagement team is responsible scope of our audit work and in evaluating the audit scope on the audit work associated for auditing the significant components.
with eight significant components subject The local teams are briefed as part of to full scope audits for the year ended We determined materiality for the group to the group audit team briefings, and the 31 March 2016. be 12.2million 2015: 14.4million, which documentation and findings is reviewed by is approximately 1% of Net Assets 2015: 1% the group engagement team.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC A lower materiality threshold of 3.7million OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS 2015: 4.4million has been applied Intermediate Capital Investments Ltd PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES to the Fund Management Company ACT 2006 ICG FMC Ltd FMC management fee income and In our opinion: FMC administrative expense account Intermediate Capital Managers Ltd balances, transactions and disclosures.
the part of the Directors Remuneration ICG Carbon Funding Limited Lower materiality has been based on 5% Report to be audited has been properly of normalised profit before tax.
We used prepared in accordance with the ICG Alternative Investment Limited normalised profit before tax to determine Companies Act 2006: and materiality to exclude the volatility arising Intermediate Finance II PLC the information given in the Strategic from impairments and capital gains, which Report and the Directors Report for ICG Global Investments Jersey Limited cause significant year on year fluctuations.
the financial year for which the financial We also performed full scope audits on We considered these measures to be statements are prepared is consistent with suitable having compared to other an additional four components that were the financial statements.
considered non-significant from a Group perspective as we perform our audit work Group materiality is used for setting audit on these entities at the same time as the scope and the assessment of uncorrected Group audit in order to gain efficiencies.
Component materialities, which are lower than group materiality, are Specified audit procedures were performed set for work on significant components on another nine non-significant components audit testing for the significant components, where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material was performed at component materiality ranging from 1.85million 6.1 million.
misstatement and of the materiality of the 2015: 2.2 million 13.4million.
groups operations within the components.
The full scope components represent We agreed with the Audit Committee that the most significant subsidiaries of the we would report to the Committee all group, and account for approximately 98% audit differences in excess of 244,000 2015: 94% of the groups net assets and 2015: 288,000 for all items except 93% 2015: 96% of the groups profit for the FMC management revenue before tax.
They were also selected to streams.
For these balances we report provide an appropriate basis for undertaking all misstatements above 72,000 audit work to address the risks of material 2015: 88,000.
We also report differences misstatement identified above.
below these thresholds that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In addition, we report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
108 109 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS In particular, we are required to MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE consider whether we have identified any REQUIRED TO REPORT BY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS inconsistencies between our knowledge EXCEPTION An audit involves obtaining evidence about acquired during the audit and the the amounts and disclosures in the financial Adequacy of explanations received and directors statement that they consider accounting records statements sufficient to give reasonable the annual report is fair, balanced and assurance that the financial statements are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are understandable and whether the annual free from material misstatement, whether required to report to you if, in our opinion: report appropriately discloses those caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information matters that we communicated to the audit assessment of: whether the accounting and explanations we require for our audit: committee which we consider should have policies are appropriate to the groups or been disclosed.
We confirm that we have and the parent companys circumstances not identified any such inconsistencies or adequate accounting records have not and have been consistently applied and misleading statements.
been kept by the parent company, or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness returns adequate for our audit have not of significant accounting estimates made by RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF been received from branches not visited the directors: and the overall presentation of by us: or DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR the financial statements.
In addition, we read As explained more fully in the Directors the parent company financial statements all the financial and non-financial information Responsibilities Statement, the directors are not in agreement with the accounting in the annual report to identify material are responsible for the preparation of records and returns.
inconsistencies with the audited financial the financial statements and for being statements and to identify any information We have nothing to report in respect of satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
that is apparently materially incorrect based these matters.
Our responsibility is to audit and express on, or materially inconsistent with, the Directors remuneration an opinion on the financial statements knowledge acquired by us in the course of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also in accordance with applicable law and performing the audit.
If we become aware required to report if in our opinion certain International Standards on Auditing UK and of any apparent material misstatements or disclosures of directors remuneration have Ireland.
We also comply with International inconsistencies we consider the implications not been made or the part of the Directors Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and for our report.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in Ireland.
Our audit methodology and agreement with the accounting records and tools aim to ensure that our quality control returns.
We have nothing to report arising procedures are effective, understood from these matters.
Our quality controls and Corporate Governance Statement systems include our dedicated professional Under the Listing Rules we are also required standards review team and independent to review part of the Corporate Governance partner reviews.
David Barnes Statement relating to the companys This report is made solely to the companys Senior statutory auditor compliance with certain provisions of the members, as a body, in accordance with for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Chartered Accountants and Statutory nothing to report arising from our review.
Our audit work has been undertaken Auditor Our duty to read other information in the so that we might state to the companys London, United Kingdom Annual Report members those matters we are required 23 May 2016 Under International Standards on Auditing to state to them in an auditors report and UK and Ireland, we are required to report for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to you if, in our opinion, information in the permitted by law, we do not accept or annual report is: assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as materially inconsistent with the information a body, for our audit work, for this report, or in the audited financial statements: or for the opinions we have formed.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
