Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of International Personal Finance plc the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a In our opinion: robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the disclosures on pages 36 to 43 that describe those risks and the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in explain how they are being managed or mitigated: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement in the Financial Review on page 35 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Companies Act 2006: and Financial Statements: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their The financial statements that we have audited comprise: statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities the Group and Company income statement: as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any the Group and Company statement of comprehensive income: related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications the Group and Company balance sheets: or assumptions.
the Group and Company cash flow statements: We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: in respect of these matters.
the accounting policies: and We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of the related notes 1 to 33. accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European continue as a going concern.
Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors accordance with those standards.
statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have of accounting contained within the Financial Review on page 35 to fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those the Financial Statements and the directors statement on the longerstandards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we have identified in the current year were: Impairment of receivables Revenue recognition and calculation of the effective interest rate Tax provision and deferred tax accounting Regulatory and legal risk Prior year key risks in relation to pension scheme assumptions and the discontinuation of the Slovakian business are not considered to be key risks in the current year.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 4.6 million 2015: 5.9 million which was determined on the basis of profit before tax.
Scoping Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach from the prior period.
in our approach 94 94 Financial Statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Impairment of receivables We evaluated the design, and tested the operating As a result of our audit effectiveness of controls over the provisioning process, testing we found that the Determining impairment provisions against customer including using IT specialists within the audit team to test assumptions used in the receivables is highly judgemental, requiring the key IT controls over the systems in which the source estimates to be made of the likely loss within the model to value customer customer receivable data is maintained, and reviewing receivables were lending portfolios.
As detailed in note 16, net customer receivables amounted to 939.9 million minutes from key management forums.
Where necessary, we also tested the completeness and accuracy of information used by management to We have identified the key impairment risks as operate key lending controls, by extraction of source being the estimation of future customer default data from the core lending systems and independent rates for customers in arrears, and hence expected recalculation of the relevant information.
We also future cash flows for each portfolio.
involved credit risk specialists to test the process and In addition, there is a risk that post model controls for implementing new impairment curves.
overlays made to account for emerging risks not We evaluated the appropriateness of managements key yet observed in historical collection curves assumptions used in the impairment calculations for are inappropriate.
customer receivables, including the estimation of The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk customer default rates and expected future cash flows for Committee on page 54 and within the key each portfolio.
This involved assessing managements assumptions and estimates on page 109. tests of historical forecasting accuracy, and re-performing Please also see note 21 for further information.
a sample of these tests using independent extracts of customer receivable collections data.
We also challenged the appropriateness of historical data used to predict future collections performance by reference to internal and external factors affecting the business.
In addition, we recalculated a sample of portfolio carrying values in accordance with the approved impairment provisioning policy and tested the accuracy of the arrears status of individual loan receivables on a sample basis to gain comfort over the accuracy of the impairment provision balance.
We also assessed the implications of the above work on the accuracy and predictive nature of the cash forecasting curves.
Revenue recognition and calculation We evaluated the design, and tested the operating As a result of our audit effectiveness of controls in relation to revenue testing, we found that of the effective interest rate recognition, and the mechanical accuracy of the models the methodology used for The recognition of revenue on loans using an used to calculate the effective interest rates.
This involved the calculation of the EIR effective interest rate EIR method requires the recalculation of a sample of product and cohort is materially accurate in significant judgement by management to effective interest rates based upon an independent the context of the determine key assumptions, in particular the extract of source data from the core lending system.
We accounting policies, expected life of each loan and related cash flows.
also tested the completeness and accuracy of cash flow and the requirements These cash flows include interest charges, home information included within the models.
of the relevant collection charges, and early settlement rebates.
We assessed the appropriateness of managements We have identified the key risk to be the key assumptions used to calculate the effective interest completeness and accuracy of the fees and rate by reference to the impact of recently observable charges included in the EIR calculations.
early redemption behaviour on the average lives of The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk loan receivables.
Committee on page 54 and within the key We also confirmed that the revenue recognition policies assumptions and estimates on page 109. applied to the material loan types offered by the Group were appropriate in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 95 95 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report continued to the members of International Personal Finance plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Tax provision and deferred Utilising tax specialists within the group and component The judgements applied by tax accounting audit teams, we have challenged managements management in the valuation assessment of the significant uncertain tax positions, of the year end tax provision, The group carries a provision relating to uncertain including the Polish tax audits, by reference to available and the associated tax positions in various jurisdictions.
Management external advice commissioned by Management, our disclosures in the Financial applies significant judgement to calculate these knowledge of similar scenarios where available, and Statements are considered provisions, based upon internal and external our independent assessment of the of the exposures in to be a reasonable.
In the current year, the the context of extant tax law.
most material judgements have been applied in We also considered the the context of the ongoing Polish tax audits as This work included considering recent tax authority deferred tax asset to be detailed in the Financial Review on page 32. announcements, and reviewing correspondence with tax appropriately measured.
authorities in the markets within which the Group The recognition of deferred tax assets is also operates to identify any potential areas where provisions judgemental as it is partly reliant upon the could arise.
underlying profit forecasts of the Group.
In the current year a deferred tax asset of 112.0 million We also tested the recognition and measurement of the 2015: 82.2 million has been recognised.
This involved confirming the nature of the timing differences giving rise to the assets.
We also The measurement of the asset varies across the confirmed that the profit forecasts used to justify the different markets due to temporary differences recognition of the assets were consistent with the Board between local tax basis and local GAAP.
approved underlying profit forecasts of the Group, which The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk we challenged by reference to historical forecasting Committee on page 54 and within the key accuracy and other internal sources of data.
assumptions and estimates on page 109.
Regulatory and legal risk We considered the completeness of regulatory We consider that the provisions required by reference to internal and publically provisions recognised in As a result of enhanced supervisory powers for available external information, determined the key relation to regulatory certain regulatory bodies in the markets within assumptions, and queried the appropriateness of exposures are reasonable.
which the Group operates, and an increased focus managements judgement on these for a sample upon product design and matters relating to the of exposures across jurisdictions.
fair treatment of customers, there is an increased risk in relation to the completeness of provisions This work included considering recent regulatory authority against regulatory exposures.
announcements, reviewing correspondence with regulatory bodies in the markets within which the Group In particular, significant judgement is required in operates to identify any potential areas where provisions relation to whether any provisions are required for could arise, reviewing the Groups complaints logs, and customer remediation.
reviewing any significant ongoing court cases brought to As included in note 15, amounts held as of 31 our attention.
In addition, we reviewed the key regulatory risks of which The risk is described further by the Audit and Risk we became aware from the procedures we performed, Committee on page 54. met with the Group legal department and relevant management across the Group, and reviewed relevant Board minutes to assess the completeness of relevant provisions in place.
This work involved the utilisation of regulatory expertise within the audit teams in the various countries in which the Group operates.
The prior year key risk in relation to the discontinuation of the Slovakian These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the business is not considered to be a key risk in the current year.
There Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, have not been any other changes to the key risks identified since the but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
96 96 Financial Statements Our approach to materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Act 2006 Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic In our opinion: decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
2006: and At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Directors Report.
Group materiality 4.6 million 2015: 5.9 million Adequacy of explanations received and accounting Basis for determining 5% of profit before tax.
materiality records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in Rationale for the The accumulation of profits is critical to an our opinion: benchmark applied investor and in allowing the Group to invest in the business.
We have therefore selected we have not received all the information and explanations we profit before tax as the benchmark for require for our audit: or determining materiality.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to received from branches not visited by us: or the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.1 million 2015: 0.1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit with the accounting records and returns.
and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Directors remuneration An overview of the scope of our audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on nothing to report arising from these matters.
the audit work at six locations, which were subject to a full audit, and one location which involved the testing of specified balances.
The locations were based across Central Europe together with Mexico.
Corporate Governance Statement Together with the Group functions in the UK, which were also subject to Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the a full audit, these eight locations represent the principal business units Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys and account for 96% 2015: 99% of the Groups net assets, 99% 2015: compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 98% of the Groups revenue, 96% 2015: 100% of the Groups profit Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
before tax and 64% 2015: 79% of the losses before tax generated by components.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual identified above.
Our audit work at the eight locations was executed Report is: at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.2 million to 2.8 Statements: or million 2015: 0.1 million to 3.0 million.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visit performing our audit: or each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at otherwise misleading.
least once every three years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit partner and team in In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the documentation of the findings from their work.
In the current year the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Senior Statutory Auditor visited Poland.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 97 97 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report continued to the members of International Personal Finance plc Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stephen Williams FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 1 March 2017 98 98
