DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR AUDIT APPROACH OUR OPINION Overview In our opinion: Materiality Overall group materiality: 17.3 million which represents 5% of Intertek Group Plcs group financial statements and company profit before tax.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys Audit Scope affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit and We performed full scope audit procedures over 73 legal entities cash flows for the year then ended: and performed specific audit procedures on a further 13 entities covering 26 territories in total.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The Group audit team held regular meetings with component IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: teams, and visited the UK, US, China and Hong Kong teams, to understand and supervise the work of these local teams and to the company financial statements have been properly prepared make sure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to Accounting Practice: and the identified areas of focus.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Taken together, the components at which audit work has been with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as performed accounted for 87% of the groups revenue and 84% regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the of the groups statutory profit before tax.
Areas of focus WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Valuation of current and deferred tax balances the consolidated statement of financial position as at Completeness and valuation of customer claims 31 December 2016: Presentation and valuation of acquisitions the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated income statement and consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing then ended: the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective the consolidated statement of changes of equity for the year judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting then ended: estimates that involved making assumptions and considering the company statement of changes of equity for the year then future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits ended: and we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias the notes to the financial statements, which include a by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement summary of significant accounting policies and other due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any financial statements is United Kingdom Generally Accepted comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and our audit.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 145 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL OTHER STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Carrying value of goodwill and We evaluated future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were intangible assets drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets, Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 82 and testing the underlying calculations.
We identified no issues in this testing.
to 83 and to note 9 to the financial statements.
We used our in-house valuation specialists to evaluate the methodology used The Group had 586.1m of goodwill and a further to calculate the value in use of the CGUs, and key assumptions including: 198.8m of intangible assets recognised on the the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the Group with balance sheet at 31 December 2016.
The carrying comparable organisations: and values of goodwill and intangibles are contingent the long term growth rates by comparing these to publicly available on future cash flows of the underlying Cash market data on projected growth rates in key territories such as the UK, Generating Units CGUs and there is a risk that, USA and China.
if these cash flows do not meet the directors expectations, the assets will be impaired.
We concluded that they were within the range of reasonable assumptions based on this information.
Accounting standards require management to perform an annual assessment of the carrying We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Having value of goodwill, and other intangible assets are ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually assessed where there are indications that they are or collectively would be required for an impairment to arise, we considered the impaired.
As this assessment is based on the future likelihood of such a movement occurring.
value in use, future cash flows must be estimated, Our testing did not identify any indicators of impairment, and that the which can be highly judgemental and could assumptions were reasonable and would require significant downside changes significantly impact the carrying value of the assets.
before any impairment would be triggered.
In addition we assessed the appropriateness of the CGUs used in the impairment assessment, the useful economic lives of the intangible assets and the related disclosures, and concluded that these were appropriate.
Valuation of current and deferred We involved our in-house tax specialists in our testing of the appropriateness tax balances of the techniques, estimates and judgements taken in relation to deferred Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 82 taxation and in respect of uncertain tax positions recognised in the financial and to note 6 to the financial statements.
Provisions in relation to potential tax exposure are In assessing uncertain tax positions, we obtained managements calculations subject to judgement and require the selection of and evaluated the methodology and assumptions used.
estimation techniques and determination of In understanding and evaluating the directors technical interpretation of tax estimates, either of which could influence the law in respect of specific transactions that gave rise to uncertain tax positions current or deferred tax positions.
The Group we evaluated: operates in a large number of jurisdictions, which increases the risk of non-compliance third party tax advice received by the Group: with international tax legislation and introduces the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries: complex transfer pricing considerations.
the outturn of previous claims: judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates: and In addition the Group has provisions for uncertain changes in tax legislation, or interpretation of existing legislation by local tax positions relating to both historic and current tax authorities.
The recognition and measurement of these items in the financial In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we considered the statements is judgemental, and we focused on likelihood of the Group being able to generate sufficient future taxable profits the directors forecasts of future profits against against which to offset accumulated losses, and tested: which to utilise accumulated losses, and the key inputs to the calculation including revenue and profit assumptions, in technical interpretation of taxation law in respect line with our work over the carrying value of goodwill: and to transactions giving rise to deferred tax assets the directors ability to accurately forecast future profits where the tax and uncertain tax positions.
assets will not be recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The procedures above did not identify any issues with regards to the valuation of deferred tax assets and provisions for uncertain tax positions.
146 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS Completeness and valuation of customer claims Where relevant obtained confirmations from the Groups external legal Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 82 and counsels of the existence and details of open claims.
Confirmations were sent to note 13 to the financial statements.
to both the lawyers associated with the key claims but also additional lawyers who Intertek have interacted with throughout the year.
As an assurance provider, the Group can be subject to claims from customers and consumers relating to its We met with legal counsel to discuss certain open or threatened claims to work, and the geographically diverse nature of the understand the likelihood of an adverse judgement and the potential Group means there is a risk that one or more magnitude of the claim.
significant claims are omitted from the centrally We obtained and read the relevant sections of the Groups insurance maintained claims register.
documents, and confirmed that any liability cap had been appropriately applied Where customer claims may give rise to a future to the calculation of provision held against those claims.
liability, the Directors are required to recognise either Through our work, we did not identify any material claims that had not a liability or a contingent liability in the financial been recorded centrally and provided for, or for which the provision was statements.
As the actual cost is often unknown, not appropriate.
management must exercise their judgement in calculating the liability.
Presentation and valuation of acquisitions For these transactions we obtained and read the sale and purchase Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages agreements SPAs in order to gain an understanding of the key terms of 82 and to note 10 in the Consolidated Financial each transaction.
In testing acquisitions during the year we: The Groups strategy is to use acquisitions to augment tested that the consideration paid by the Group was consistent with the organic revenue growth, and during the year made terms of the SPAs: three acquisitions: FIT Italia SRL, EWA-Canada Ltd and assessed the appropriateness of the directors identification of intangible Laboratorios ABC Quimica, Investigacion y Analisis, S. A assets acquired by reference to the SPAs, due diligence reports and other fide C. V..
In addition, the 12-month hindsight period for supporting documentation, to identify any assets listed: reassessing the acquisition of Professional Service obtained the directors calculation of the fair value of intangible assets Industries, Inc closed during the year.
acquired, and where material corroborated the inputs and assumptions to Judgement is required in determining the amount of supporting evidence: and, consideration paid and the valuation of assets and verified that the accounting treatment for each transaction, and any liabilities acquired.
In addition, the disclosure resulting liabilities, is consistent with the accounting standard requirements.
requirements in respect of acquisitions are extensive.
We noted no exceptions through performing these procedures.
For PSI, which was acquired in 2015, in order to test the directors final assessment of the purchase price allocation, we: obtained evidence from internal and external advisors in relation to the fair value of liabilities recognised on acquisition, to evaluate whether the valuation remained appropriate, or that any adjustments were supported: evaluated whether all fair value adjustments, and any resulting impact, had been appropriately recognised and accounted for.
Based on the evidence obtained, we did not identify any indications that the fair value adjustments identified by management were inappropriate.
We also reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements and are satisfied that they are in line with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 147 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL OTHER STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the industry in which the group operates.
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial The Group is split into 3 reporting segments: Products, Trade statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect and Resources and the operations are spread across over 100 of misstatements, both individually and on the financial countries and over 500 legal entities.
The results are not statements as a whole.
consolidated at a country or regional level, so we determined that Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the most appropriate level at which to scope our audit was the for the financial statements as a whole as follows: legal entity level.
Overall group materiality 17.3 million When determining our scope, the key financial measure used is How we determined it 5% of profit before income tax profit before tax.
Due to the disaggregation of the groups results Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax is the across the various entities, we identified only two individually applied primary measure used by the shareholders financially significant legal entities, both within China.
As a result in assessing the performance of the group.
we instructed our component team to perform audits of the This is a generally accepted benchmark and complete financial information of these entities.
the users of the accounts consider it to be a key measure of the performance of the We then considered the 45 countries in which PwC are appointed business.
Of these, 22 accounted for the majority of external profit, and we therefore focused our considerations on We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to these territories.
Within these countries, we then excluded any them misstatements identified during our audit above 900,000 legal entities with no external balances, such as intermediary as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, holding companies, and those entities with highly immaterial warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
revenue, leaving 59 legal entities for which we instructed our local teams to perform audits of the complete financial Going concern information for the purpose of the group audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern.
We In certain territories, notably the US, there is no statutory audit have nothing to report having performed our review.
requirement and so we considered whether procedures needed to be performed to supplement our coverage.
Due to the number Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we of entities within the US and Canada we selected 14 entities in have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation those countries, representing those with the largest contribution to the directors statement about whether they considered it to group profit, over which we performed audits of the complete appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
We also identified a further 13 entities in financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to other countries over which we instructed specific audit draw attention to.
procedures to be performed over revenue and receivables to As noted in the directors statement, the directors have supplement coverage over these key financial line items.
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis In total we performed procedures over 86 legal entities in 26 in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis countries, which together accounted for 87% of the Groups presumes that the group and company have adequate resources revenue and 84% of the Groups profit before tax.
to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements Members of the Group audit team visited US, China, Hong Kong were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the and UK component teams in the year in order to understand and directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, supervise the audit approach in those locations and we held a because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, series of planning workshops for all in scope component teams these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and to inform them of our audit approach and strategy.
companys ability to continue as a going concern.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over material head office entities, tax, legal claims, impairment assessments and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
148 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given inthe Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the explanation given by the directors on page 83, in accordance with provision We have no exceptions to report.
C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as to why the Annual Report does not include a statement that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 82, as required by provision C. 3.8 of We have no exceptions to report.
the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 35 of the Annual Report, We have nothing material to add or to draw in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a attention to.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how We have nothing material to add or to draw they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to draw provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the attention to.
group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 149 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL OTHER STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give if, in our opinion: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This includes an assessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the companys circumstances and have been consistently company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the company financial statements and the part of the by the directors: and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming DIRECTORS REMUNERATION our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 financial statements.
opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We test and examine information, using sampling and other be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Companies Act 2006. provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information specified by law are not made.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the provisions of the Code.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS Ian Chambers As explained more fully in the Statement of Director's Senior Statutory Auditor responsibilities set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for and on behalf of  LLP for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
London Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 6 March 2017 financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the The maintenance and integrity of the Intertek Group plc website is the responsibility Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter initially presented on the website.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
150 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
