International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Group financial statements: - Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: - Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and - Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED International Public Partnerships Limited the Group financial statements comprise: - Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2016: - Consolidated statement of balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: - Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2016: - Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2016: and - Related notes 1 to 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement - Misstatement or manipulation of investment fair value - Revenue recognition Audit scope - We performed an audit of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 - The Company has determined that it is an investment entity under the requirements of IFRS10 amendments for Investment Entities IFRS 10 amendments and therefore only consolidates service entities as explained in note 2 of the financial statements.
Service entities are audited to Group materiality threshold.
- All of the Group audits, including the consolidated service entities, were performed by the group audit team Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 16million which represents 1% of Equity.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Misstatement or manipulation of investment fair value 1,515 million 2015: 1,201 million Investments comprise a portfolio of assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair values of these investments are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at a rate appropriate to the risk profile of each investment.
In determining the discount rate, the relevant long-term government bond yields, specific investment risks and the evidence of recent transactions are considered.
Details of the valuation process and key sensitivities are provided in note 11 of the financial statements and are discussed in the report of the Audit Committee on page 54.
The valuation risk includes the risk of an inappropriate valuation model being applied including the risk of manipulation or error in both the assumptions applied and the amount and timing of expected cash flows.
61 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 Our response to We have tested the effectiveness of controls in operation over the investment acquisitions, forecasting cashflows, the risk distributions and model integrity and we have placed reliance on control over these processes.
We selected a sample of investments to provide coverage over the key geographies the Group operates in and to address significant variable cashflow risk and performed the following procedures: Valuation assumption: We have been supported in our testing of macro economic inputs and discount rates inputs by specialists from our EY Valuation & Business Modelling team EYVBM.
We engaged EY valuation specialists to assess the other assumptions used to determine the underlying variable cash flows, such as passenger numbers, rolling stock releasing assumptions, or are subject to complex regulation all of which require significant judgement.
The assessment was based on a combination of market data and experience of valuing other similar investments Model integrity: We engaged our EY financial modelling specialists to sample test the following: - the year on year changes to the logical operation for a sample of financial models and - management controls including managements use of third party audits of the initial model and analysis of yields.
Model inputs: We agreed a sample of contractual cashflows to contractual terms and actual cashflows.
We engaged KPMG to perform this work for a part of our sample.
We engaged EY valuation specialists to assess other demand based cashflows based on their experience in the market place.
For all other investments we performed the following procedures: - We tested historical accuracy of forecasting by comparing the historical forecast distributions from the projects to the actual distributions - We developed our own expectations for changes in investment fair values.
- For each investment fair value movement not in line with our expectation we obtained and corroborated reasons for the difference.
Consistency of assumptions: We tested that material macro-economic assumptions discount rates, inflation rates, foreign exchange rates, deposit rates and tax rates were applied consistently to each investment.
What we We confirmed that there were no material matters arising from our audit work on the valuation assumptions, model itegrity concluded to the or model inputs that we wished to bring to the attention of the audit committee.
Audit Committee We confirmed that the valuation of the investments was not materially misstated and was in line with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Risk Revenue Recognition Notwithstanding there is no revenue reported, we treat dividend and interest income as revenue and as it is material we have considered revenue recognition as a significant risk.
Management may seek to overstate revenue as a result of seeking to report the desired level of return to investors.
Our response to We updated our understanding of the Groups processes and policies for revenue recognition including our understanding the risk of the systems and controls implemented: We agreed a sample of dividend and interest receipts to documentation from unconsolidated subsidiaries and we checked the calculation of interest amounts and the allocation thereof to the appropriate period.
We have performed cut off and completeness testing to conclude on accuracy.
Key Observations We confirmed that there were no matters identified during our audit work that we wanted to bring to the attention of the communicated to audit committee.
the Audit Committee THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company consolidated service entities as explained in note 2 of the financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
62 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 MATERIALITY Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 16million 2015: 12.9million, which is 1% 2015: 1% of equity.
We believe that total equity provides us with an appropriate basis for audit materiality as net asset value is a key published performance measure and is a key metric used by management in assessing and reporting on the overall performance of the Group.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and noted that total equity had increased from approx.
1.4billion at 30 June 2016 to 1.6billion as at 31 December 2016 mainly due to capital raise in July and December 2016.
This resulted in a higher materiality of 16million compared to 13.7million that was originally determined at the audit planning stage.
A lower materiality of 2.2million 2015: 2.9million has been applied to Interest income, Dividend income and Management costs to be responsive to the expectations of the users of the financial statements with regard to misstatements in these balances of a lesser amount than the Group materiality.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 8million 2015: 50% of materiality, namely 6.4million.
The performance materiality percentage is consistent with last year.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in the financial statements did not exceed our materiality level.
REPORTING THRESHOLD Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.8million 2015: 0.6million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 63 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs U. K. and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: reporting - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or - apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or - otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Conclusion We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: requirements - The directors statement in relation to going concern, on page 58, and longer-term viability, on page 37: and - The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Companies Guernsey We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Law, 2008 requirements - Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company: or - The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or - We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs U. K. and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation reporting to: - The directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: - The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: - The directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and - The directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Conclusion We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Guernsey Channel Islands 29 March 2017 64
