ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the FOUR members of Investec plc We have audited the accompanying Those standards require that we comply Other matter with ethical requirements and plan and special purpose annual financial Investec plc has prepared a separate set of statements of Investecplc for the year perform the audit to obtain reasonable statutory financial statements for the year assurance about whether the annual ended 31March2016 which comprise ended 31 March 2016 in accordance with the consolidated income statement, financial statements are free from both International Financial Reporting materialmisstatement.
consolidated statement of comprehensive Standards as adopted by the European income, consolidated balance sheet, An audit involves performing procedures to Union and International Financial Reporting consolidated cash flow statement, obtain audit evidence about the amounts Standards as issued by the International consolidated statement of changes in and disclosures in the annual financial Accounting Standards Board and equity, and notes 1 to 57.
The procedures selected Companies Act 2006 on which we issued a purpose financial statements have been depend on the auditors judgement, separate auditors report to the prepared by the directors in accordance including the assessment of the risks shareholders of Investec plc dated with the accounting policies set out on of material misstatement of the annual 9 June 2016. pages 158 to 166. financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, Under the contractual arrangements we consider internal controls relevant to implementing the dual listed companies the companys preparation of the annual structure, Investec plc and Investec Ernst & Young LLP financial statements in order to design Limited effectively form a single economic London audit procedures that are appropriate enterprise, in which the economic and in the circumstances, but not for the voting rights of shareholders are equalised.
15 June 2016 purpose of expressing an opinion on the In accordance with this structure the effectiveness of the companys internal appropriate presentation under International Notes: control.
Our audit also includes evaluating Financial Reporting Standards is achieved 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the the appropriateness of accounting policies Investec plc website is the responsibility of by combining the results and the financial used and the reasonableness of accounting the directors: the work carried out by the position of both companies using merger auditors does not involve consideration of estimates made by management, as well accounting principles.
Those combined these matters and, accordingly, the auditors as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated annual financial statements accept no responsibility for any changes annual financial statements.
are prepared separately so as to show that may have occurred to the annual financial statements since they were initially a true and fair view in accordance with We believe that the audit evidence we have presented on the website.
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing provide a basis for our audit opinion.
the preparation and dissemination of As explained in the accounting policies, annual financial statements may differ from these special purpose annual financial legislation inother jurisdictions.
statements have been prepared to present Opinion the financial position, results and cash flows In our opinion, the special purpose financial of Investec plc and its subsidiaries.
For the statements ofInvestec plc for the year avoidance of doubt, they exclude Investec ended 31March2016 are prepared, in all Limited and its subsidiaries.
material respects, in accordance with the accounting policies.
Directors responsibility Basis of accounting for the annual financial statements and restriction on use Without modifying our opinion, we draw The directors are responsible for the preparation of these annual financial attention to the accounting policies, which describes the basis of accounting.
statements in accordance with the Thespecial purpose financial statements accounting policies, and for such internal are prepared to present the financial control as the directors determine is position and results of Investecplc and necessary to enable the preparation of its directly owned subsidiaries as if the the special purpose financial statements contractual arrangements which create the that are free from material misstatement, DLC structure did not exist.
As a result, whether due to fraud or error.
the special purpose financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose.
Auditors responsibility Our auditors report is intended solely for the board of Investecplc and should not Our responsibility is to express an opinion be used by parties other than the board of on these special purpose financial Investec plc.
statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 152
