Independent Auditors Report to the Members of IP Group plc only investors partaking in funding rounds, there is a Opinions and conclusions arising risk that recent investments on which fair value is from our audit based are not sufficiently at arms length to ensure an independent market valuation representative 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is of fair value.
Furthermore, due to the nature of the unmodified Groups investment portfolio, funding rounds can We have audited the financial statements of IP be more than 12 months apart.
Whether it remains Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 appropriate to use the price of the recent funding which comprise the consolidated statement of rounds depends on the specific circumstances comprehensive income, the Group Consolidated of the investment, the stability of the external statement of financial position, the consolidated environment and the period since the last funding statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement round occurred.
There is therefore a significant of changes in equity, the Company balance sheet and risk over the valuation and inappropriate fair value the related notes.
In our opinion: hierarchy disclosure of these investments and this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit the financial statements give a true and fair view focused on.
of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of Our response In this area our audit procedures the groups loss for the year then ended: included: the Group financial statements have been properly For a selection of investments, assessing whether prepared in accordance with International Financial the price of recent investment is an appropriate Reporting Standards as adopted by the European basis for the measurement of the fair value at Union: the time, by evaluating the independence of the funding rounds on which this valuation is based.
the parent company financial statements have This assessment was based on whether external been properly prepared in accordance with UK investors were allowed to take up significant Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced investments at the same rates and the number Disclosure Framework: and of external investors included within the funding the financial statements have been prepared round.
For a sample of external investors we in accordance with the requirements of the review the directors and key management of those Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the investors for any potential overlap with IP Group.
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Conducting independent research into publicly Regulation.
available information including news websites and 2 Our assessment of risks of material the companys own website for indicators of fair misstatement value changes since the last funding round was set, considering the valuation techniques applied In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial against IPEV guidelines and agreeing key elements statements the risks of material misstatement, in to appropriate support including contractual decreasing order of audit significance, that had agreements.
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2015 : Attending the year-end valuation meetings with the Directors and senior finance personnel Valuation of unquoted equity investments 433.8m to assess their discussion and review of the 2015: 341.8 investment valuations.
Refer to page 88 Audit and Risk Committee Report, For investments valued based on a funding round page 110 accounting policy and pages 123 to 125 aged greater than 12 months, seeking independent financial disclosures.
evidence to support the events since the most The risk 56.4% of the companys total assets recent investment as communicated to us by by value is held in investments where no quoted IP Groups business building team, for example market price is available.
Unquoted investments external news sources, and critically assessing are measured at fair value, which is established in these events as potential indicators of fair value accordance with the International Private Equity adjustment.
We note an inherent judgement in and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines by using the use of a 12-month threshold and we assess measurements of value such as prices of recent the reasonableness of this threshold for valuation investment.
Due to the relatively low number of purposes and for the related level 2 disclosures included in the financial statements.
98 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 6 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Our Financials Auditors Report Carrying value of goodwill 57.1m 2015: 57.1 We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements Refer to page 88 Audit and Risk Committee Report, relating to the statement of financial position page 108 accounting policy and page 120 to 121 exceeding 400,000 2015: 409,000, in addition financial disclosures.
to other identified misstatements that warranted The risk IP Groups impairment review of goodwill reporting on qualitative grounds.
involved the calculation of value-in-use through a Of the Groups 33 components 2015: 26, the discounted cash flow model and fair-value-lessGroup audit team subjected 8 2015:9 to audits to costs-to-sell, and comparison of these amounts component materiality for Group audit purposes.
Due to the carrying value of goodwill recognised in to nature of the Groups operations and the audit the accounts.
The discounted cash flow model approach, aggregation risk was deemed to be low contained significant levels of judgement over the and component materiality was set at 7.9m 2015: assumptions used including the discount rate and 8.2m.
These 8 entities account for 89.3% of the the assumptions to the cash flow forecasts which Groups revenue and return 2015: 99.5%, 78.6% of included the gains on future investments, the total profits and losses that made up the Groups annual investment rate and the weighted average profit before tax 2015: 98.3% and 97.4% of the holding period of the Groups investments.
Due to Groups total assets 2015: 98.1%.
the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are For the remaining components, we performed included within the models used, and the irregular specified risk-focused audit procedures on specific nature of the UK university spin-out company balances and we performed analysis at an aggregated market, this is one of the key judgmental areas that group level to re-examine our assessment that there our audit is concentrated on.
were no significant risks of material misstatement Our response In this area our audit procedures within these.
included: 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed Critically assessing the principles and integrity of by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified the value in use discounted cash flow model.
In our opinion: Critically assessing the assumptions around IPO exit valuations and benchmarking the assumptions the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to historical exit valuations achieved.
We assessed to be audited has been properly prepared in the reasonableness of the annual investment rate accordance with the Companies Act 2006: by comparing this to both historical information the information given in the Strategic Report and Company cash flow forecasts for the and the Directors Report for the financial year is upcoming year.
We also assessed the weighted consistent with the financial statements: and average holding period for reasonableness by the information given in the Corporate Governance re-calculating the holding period of previously Statement set out on pages 54 to 68 with respect disposed investments, those being an indicator of to internal control and risk management systems in future holding periods.
relation to financial reporting processes and about Considering the sensitivity of the valuation model share capital structures the specified Corporate to the key assumptions above through a sensitivity Governance information is consistent with the analysis that considered the impact of each financial statements.
assumption on the value in use.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken Assessing whether the Groups disclosures of in the course of the audit of the financial statements the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment and from reading the Strategic Report, the Directors reviews to changes in key assumptions Report and the Corporate Governance Statement: 3 Our application of materiality and an we have not identified material misstatements in overview of the scope of our audit the Strategic Report, the Directors Report, or the The materiality for the Group financial statements as specified Corporate Governance information: a whole was set at 8m 2015: 8.17m, determined in our opinion, the Strategic Report and the with reference to a benchmark of Group total assets, Directors Report have been prepared in of which it represents 1% 2015: 1%.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 99 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED to the Members of IP Group plc only in our opinion, the Corporate Governance the parent company financial statements and the Statement has been prepared in accordance part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be with rules 7.2.
7 of the audited are not in agreement with the accounting Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the records and returns: or Financial Conduct Authority.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or 5 We have nothing to report on the we have not received all the information and disclosures of principal risks explanations we require for our audit: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our a Corporate Governance Statement has not been audit, we have nothing material to add or draw prepared by the company.
attention to in relation to: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors long term viability statement on page 45, concerning the principal risks, their the directors statements, set out on pages 68 and management, and, based on that, the directors 45, in relation to going concern and longer-term assessment and expectations of the groups viability: and continuing in operation over the 3 years to 2019: or the part of the Corporate Governance Statement the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements on pages 54 to 68 relating to the companys concerning the use of the going concern basis of compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 accounting.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of We have nothing to report in respect of the above the matters on which we are required to responsibilities.
report by exception Scope and responsibilities Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during As explained more fully in the Directors our audit, we have identified other information in the Responsibilities Statement set out on page 95, the annual report that contains a material inconsistency directors are responsible for the preparation of the with either that knowledge or the financial financial statements and for being satisfied that they statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope otherwise misleading.
of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: uk auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely we have identified material inconsistencies to the companys members as a body and is subject between the knowledge we acquired during to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our audit and the directors statement that they our responsibilities, published on our website at consider that the annual report and financial www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and incorporated into this report as if set out in full and understandable and provides the information should be read to provide an understanding of the necessary for shareholders to assess the groups purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken position and performance, business model and and the basis of our opinions.
strategy: or Jonathan Mills the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee does Senior Statutory Auditor not appropriately address matters communicated for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor by us to the audit committee.
Chartered Accountants Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 15 Canada Square report to you if, in our opinion: London E14 5GL adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for 6 March 2017 our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 100 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 6 4 April 2017 7:11 PM
