Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 110 to 188.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the group's profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit significance, that had the greatest effect on our audit, were as follows: The risk Our response Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,672 million 2015: 1,719 million Risk vs 2015:, Refer to page 71 Audit Committee report, page 120 accounting policy and pages 121 and 122 financial disclosures The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to regulation Our procedures included: under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system CRR.
CRR works by Testing of controls, assisted by our own IT specialists, including those ensuring that the annual share of TV advertising that will be placed over: segregation of duties, input of annual deal terms with agencies, with ITV by each advertising agency can change in relation to the input of individual campaigns terms and pricing, comparison of viewing figures for commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR those terms and pricing data against the related contracts with system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements with advertising agencies: linkage to transmission viewer data: and the advertising agencies and the details of each advertising campaign, system generated calculation of deal debt for each campaign: together with the related processes and controls, are complex and involve estimation.
Analysing revenue based on our industry knowledge and external market data, following up variances: and In particular, the pricing mechanism means it is possible for a difference to arise between the price received by ITV for an advertising Challenging the year-end deal debt position based on comparison campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a result of the actual with customers correspondence and agreed terms of business.
viewing figures being different from the agreed level.
Where the We also assessed the adequacy of the group's disclosures in respect Group has over-delivered viewers this is referred to as a deal credit, of the accounting policies on revenue recognition.
or a deal debt where delivery has fallen short.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted, these differences are noted for each agency and then taken account of when agreeing either future campaigns or the annual contract.
A net deal debt position with an agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
Net deal credit positions are not recognised.
NAR is therefore considered a significant risk due to: The number and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies: The complexity of the systems and processes of control used to record revenue: and, The level of estimation involved in determining the deal debt liability at the period end.
106 Financial Statements ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only The risk Our response Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Other revenue streams Non-NAR revenue 1,392 million 2015: 1,253 million Risk vs 2015: 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 71 Audit Committee report, page120 accounting policy and pages 121 and 122 financial disclosures We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 110 to 188.
In our opinion: Non-NAR revenue includes revenue from: programme production, Our procedures included: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2016 the sale of programme rights, transmission supply arrangements and We considered the Groups revenue recognition policies against the and of the group's profit for the year then ended: the Online, Pay & Interactive division within the Broadcast segment.
relevant accounting standards: and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Recognition of revenue is driven by the specific terms of the related by the European Union: For higher value revenue contracts entered into during the year, contracts and is considered to be a significant risk as the terms of the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 we considered whether revenue had been recognised in accordance the contracts are varied and can be complex, with the result that Reduced Disclosure Framework: and with the contractual terms in the correct accounting period, given accounting for the revenue generated in any given period can require the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group the requirements of the relevant accounting standard.
Due to the contractual financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
nature of these revenue streams, the focus of our work is on the risks We also assessed the adequacy of the group's disclosures in respect 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement associated with significant one-off contracts.
of the accounting policy on revenue recognition.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit significance, Defined benefit pension scheme obligations 367 million 2015: 176 million Risk vs 2015: that had the greatest effect on our audit, were as follows: Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 148 accounting policy and pages 148 to 156 financial disclosures The risk Our response Significant estimates are made in determining the key assumptions Our procedures included: Net Advertising Revenue NAR 1,672 million 2015: 1,719 million Risk vs 2015:, used in valuing the group's post-retirement defined benefit Challenging the key assumptions applied in determining the Group's Refer to page 71 Audit Committee report, page 120 accounting policy and pages 121 and 122 financial disclosures obligations.
When making these assumptions the Group takes pension obligations, being the discount rate, inflation rate and The majority of ITVs advertising revenue NAR is subject to regulation Our procedures included: independent actuarial advice relating to their appropriateness.
mortality life expectancy, with the support of our own actuarial under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system CRR.
CRR works by Testing of controls, assisted by our own IT specialists, including those Following an analysis of the membership data carried out for the specialists: ensuring that the annual share of TV advertising that will be placed over: segregation of duties, input of annual deal terms with agencies, related longevity swap, the Group updated its mortality assumptions with ITV by each advertising agency can change in relation to the This included a comparison of these key assumptions against input of individual campaigns terms and pricing, comparison of in the year which had an impact on the obligations at the year-end.
viewing figures for commercial television that it delivers.
The CRR externally derived data: and those terms and pricing data against the related contracts with system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements with The Group also closed the ITV Pensions Scheme for future benefit advertising agencies: linkage to transmission viewer data: and the Testing the methodology applied in determining the revised advertising agencies and the details of each advertising campaign, accrual with effect from 28 February 2017. system generated calculation of deal debt for each campaign: mortality expectation by comparing the conclusions of the Groups together with the related processes and controls, are complex and The valuation of the defined benefit obligations is considered a significant analysis with our own analysis formed using externally derived data.
Analysing revenue based on our industry knowledge and external risk given the quantum of the pension deficits, the developments related market data, following up variances: and We also considered the adequacy of the group's disclosures in respect In particular, the pricing mechanism means it is possible for a to the schemes in the year, and given that a small change in assumptions of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions.
difference to arise between the price received by ITV for an advertising Challenging the year-end deal debt position based on comparison can have a material financial impact on the Group.
campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a result of the actual with customers correspondence and agreed terms of business.
Where the We continue to perform procedures over acquisition accounting and royalty accruals.
We have not assessed these as risks that had the greatest We also assessed the adequacy of the group's disclosures in respect Group has over-delivered viewers this is referred to as a deal credit, effect on our audit for the reasons explained below and, therefore, they are not separately identified in our report this year: of the accounting policies on revenue recognition.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted, these differences are noted for Acquisition accounting is not separately identified in our report this year as the Group did not enter into any complex transactions in the year.
each agency and then taken account of when agreeing either future Royalty accruals are no longer considered a significant risk reflecting further improvement in controls in the year and the overall size of the campaigns or the annual contract.
A net deal debt position with an balance by comparison with the Groups Net Asset position.
agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
107 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 35 million 2015: 29 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax normalised to exclude the one-off pre-paid employment linked remuneration charge and pension curtailment cost disclosed in note 2.2, 623 million, of which materiality represents 5.5% 2015: 4.6% of group profit before tax.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding million 1.7 million 2015: 1.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and coverage Revenue profit before tax Total assets Group audited 85% Group audited 88% Group audited 89% specified risk-based specified risk-based specified risk-based audit procedures 5% audit procedures 1% audit procedures 1% Out of scope 10% Out of scope 11% Out of scope 10% The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the core UK operations comprising Broadcast and Online, the UK Studios, Global Entertainment and the central functions as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 25 million 2015: 25 million.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
This year Talpa Media B. V, in the Netherlands, was also scoped in for Group audit purposes as a full scope audit.
The work on Talpa Media B. V. was performed by a component auditor as instructed by the Group, including the assessment of relevant risks and determination of the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team set the materiality of 5 million for this component.
The Group team visited the component in Netherlands, including to assess the audit risk and strategy, and held several telephone conference meetings with the component audit team.
At this visit and in these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Although not in-scope for Group reporting purposes, in agreement with the Audit Committee, specified risk-based audit procedures were also performed on two entities in the US by component auditors simultaneously with the audit of the in-scope operations.
The Group audit team set the materiality for specified audit procedures at 5 million for these US components.
Together the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 90% 2015: 92% of group revenue, 89% 2015: 94% of group profit before taxation: and 90% 2015: 88% of total group assets.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
108 Financial Statements ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc Only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 35 million 2015: 29 million, determined with reference to a benchmark Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of group profit before tax normalised to exclude the one-off pre-paid employment linked remuneration charge and pension curtailment cost the Directors viability statement on page 57, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment disclosed in note 2.2, 623 million, of which materiality represents 5.5% 2015: 4.6% of group profit before tax.
and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2019: or We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding million 1.7 million 2015: 1.5 million, the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Scoping and coverage Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the core UK operations comprising Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Broadcast and Online, the UK Studios, Global Entertainment and the central functions as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 25 million 2015: 25 million.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from group profit before tax.
The work on branches not visited by us: or Talpa Media B. V. was performed by a component auditor as instructed by the Group, including the assessment of relevant risks and determination the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the of the information to be reported back.
accounting records and returns: or The Group team visited the component in Netherlands, including to assess the audit risk and strategy, and held several telephone conference certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or meetings with the component audit team.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Although not in-scope for Group reporting purposes, in agreement with the Audit Committee, specified risk-based audit procedures were also Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: performed on two entities in the US by component auditors simultaneously with the audit of the in-scope operations.
The Group audit team the Directors statements, set out on pages 104 and 57, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and set the materiality for specified audit procedures at 5 million for these US components.
Together the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 90% 2015: 92% of group revenue, 89% 2015: 94% of group profit before taxation: and 90% 2015: 88% of total the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 64 to 67 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the group assets.
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
In our opinion: Scope and responsibilities the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely is consistent with the financial statements.
to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide Report and the Directors Report: an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 1 March 2017 109
