Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of IWG plc relation to key model inputs.
We checked the mathematical Opinions and conclusions arising from our accuracy of the model.
We examined the sensitivity analysis audit performed by Group management and performed our own 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions.
We We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IWG Plc also compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the to the market capitalisation of the Group to assess whether consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of the projected cash flows appear reasonable.
comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the We also assessed whether the disclosures as set out in consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated note 12 were appropriate and in compliance with IAS 36. cash flow statement and the related accounting policies and notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Taxation current tax liabilities of 17.7m: deferred tax preparation is Jersey law and International Financial Reporting assets of 29.3m and deferred tax liabilities of 2.4m Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit Refer to page 47 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 71 was conducted in accordance with International Standards on to 76 accounting policies and notes 9 and 32 to the Group Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: The risk  the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December As a result, the tax charge on profits is determined according to a 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: variety of complex tax laws and regulations.
The Group encounters challenges by tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the  the consolidated financial statements have been properly normal course of business and recognises liabilities for anticipated prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and will be due.
The calculation of these liabilities is underpinned  the consolidated financial statements have been properly by judgemental assumptions as the ultimate tax determination prepared in accordance with the requirements of the is uncertain.
The related deferred tax assets and liabilities require Companies Jersey Law 1991. judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised with 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement consideration to the timing and level of future taxable income.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the consolidated financial Separately, the Group has incurred historic trading losses in certain statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest jurisdictions and acquisitions made may include complex tax effect on our Group audit were as follows: aspects.
As a consequence, the Groups current and deferred Goodwill and intangible assets 738.1m tax balances are sensitive to assumptions used in determining Refer to page 47 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 71 the appropriate liabilities and assets.
to 76 accounting policies and notes 12, 13 and 32 to the Group Our response Financial Statements.
Our approach to the audit of taxation is underpinned by the The risk inclusion of KPMG international and domestic taxation specialists in There is a risk that the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill the Group audit team.
These specialists evaluate the assumptions and intangible assets will be more than the estimated recoverable and methodologies used by the Group and its taxation advisors, in amount, if future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the calculating the taxation provisions for the period.
This could occur if forecasted cash flows is placed on assumptions relating to provisions for uncertain decline in certain markets or where revenue and costs are subject tax positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred to significant fluctuations.
The recoverability of goodwill is spread tax assets.
across multiple geographies and economies, and is dependent on We specifically considered the taxation risks arising from the individual businesses acquired achieving or sustaining sufficient Groups operations when assessing the accounting for taxation profitability in the future.
related balances and applied sensitivity analysis to determine the We focus on this area due to the inherent uncertainty involved appropriateness of key judgements.
We assessed the recoverability in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, particularly of deferred tax assets, which involved assessing the assumptions in in projected revenue growth, which forms the basis of the relation to the utilisation of losses carried forward against projected assessment of recoverability.
Our response We also considered whether the recognition of additional deferred Our audit procedures in this area included assessing the Groups tax assets would be appropriate.
impairment model for each CGU and evaluating the assumptions We assessed the presentation and disclosure in accordance used by the Group in the model, specifically the cash flow with IAS 1 and IAS 12 in respect of taxation related balances projections, perpetuity rates and discount rates.
We considered and considered whether the Groups disclosures reflected the the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasts.
risks inherent in the accounting for the taxation balances.
We used valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope judgements and methodologies used by the Group, in particular of our audit those relating to the discount rate used to determine the present The materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole value of the cash flow projections.
was set at 21 million 2015: 19 million, or 1% of total revenue, We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, to which we have determined, in our professional judgement, to be externally derived data and performed our own assessment in 63 63 Independent auditors report to the members of IWG plc continued one of the principal benchmarks within the financial statements 4.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal relevant to members of the company in assessing financial risks performance.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: For certain account balances including goodwill, intangible assets, bank loans, share based payments, related party transactions and  The Directors statement on page 62 concerning the principal taxation, we applied materiality of 8 million, or 5% of pre-tax risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors profit, as we believe a misstatement of amounts less than assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be operation over the three-year period to 2019: or reasonably expected to influence a members assessment  The disclosures on page 41 concerning the use of the going of the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report corrected and 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with which we are required to report by exception a value in excess of 1 million 2015: 1 million.
We also agreed Under the ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you to report other audit misstatements below that threshold that we if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
have identified information in the Annual Report that contains The structure of the Groups finance function is such that a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the certain transactions and balances are accounted for by central financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that Group finance teams, with the remainder accounted for in the is otherwise misleading.
We performed comprehensive audit procedures, In particular, we are required to report to you if: including those in relation to the significant risks above, on those  We have identified any inconsistencies between the transactions and balances accounted for at Group and operating knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors unit level.
In determining those components in the Group on statement that they consider the Annual Report and financial which we perform audit procedures, we utilised size and risk statements as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable criteria in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess UK and Ireland.
the entitys position and performance, business model and In relation to the Groups operating units, audits for Group reporting strategy: or purposes were performed at identified key reporting components,  The report from the Audit Committee does not appropriately augmented by risk focused audit procedures which were disclose those matters that we communicated to the Audit performed for all other components.
of total Group revenue, 82% of Group total assets and 83% of Group profit before taxation.
The Listing Rules require us to review: The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the  The Directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed to going concern and longer-term viability page 42 : above and the information to be reported back.
Planning meetings  The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page were held with component auditors in order to assess the key audit 39 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten risks, audit strategy and work to be undertaken.
The Group audit provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified team approved the materiality of each of the components, which for our review: and ranged from 5.5m to 10m, having regard to the mix of size and  Certain elements of remuneration disclosures in the report risk profile of the Group across the components.
to shareholders by the Directors.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors in all of these 6.
Our conclusions on other matters on which we are required identified locations.
These instructions covered the significant to report by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 are set out audit areas to be covered by these audits which included the below relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters out the information required to be reported to the Group audit where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 which requires us to team.
Senior members of the Group audit team, including the lead report to you if, in our opinion: engagement partner, attended each component audit closing meeting via telephone conferencing facilities, at which the results  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the of component audits were discussed with divisional and Group parent company: management.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the  Returns adequate for our audit have not been received Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further from branches not visited by us: work required by the Group audit team was then performed by  The financial statements are not in agreement with the the component auditor.
The Group audit team interacted with the accounting records: or component teams where appropriate during various stages of the  We have not received all the information and explanations audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the we require for our audit.
scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
64 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 64 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of IWG plc continued one of the principal benchmarks within the financial statements 4.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal Basis of our report, responsibilities and restrictions on use relevant to members of the company in assessing financial risks As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement performance.
set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied For certain account balances including goodwill, intangible assets, that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit bank loans, share based payments, related party transactions and  The Directors statement on page 62 concerning the principal and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taxation, we applied materiality of 8 million, or 5% of pre-tax risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors in accordance with applicable law and International Standards profit, as we believe a misstatement of amounts less than assessment and expectations of the Group continuing in on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be operation over the three-year period to 2019: or comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards reasonably expected to influence a members assessment  The disclosures on page 41 concerning the use of the going for Auditors.
of the financial performance of the Group.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland We agreed with the Audit Committee to report corrected and 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with which we are required to report by exception in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance a value in excess of 1 million 2015: 1 million.
We also agreed Under the ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, to report other audit misstatements below that threshold that we if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
have identified information in the Annual Report that contains of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The structure of the Groups finance function is such that a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and certain transactions and balances are accounted for by central financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Group finance teams, with the remainder accounted for in the is otherwise misleading.
estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of operating units.
We performed comprehensive audit procedures, In particular, we are required to report to you if: the financial statements.
including those in relation to the significant risks above, on those  We have identified any inconsistencies between the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information transactions and balances accounted for at Group and operating knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material unit level.
In determining those components in the Group on statement that they consider the Annual Report and financial inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial statements which we perform audit procedures, we utilised size and risk statements as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and to identify any information that is apparently materially criteria in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge UK and Ireland.
the entitys position and performance, business model and acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become In relation to the Groups operating units, audits for Group reporting strategy: or aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies purposes were performed at identified key reporting components, we consider the implications for our report.
 The report from the Audit Committee does not appropriately augmented by risk focused audit procedures which were disclose those matters that we communicated to the Audit While an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is performed for all other components.
designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material of total Group revenue, 82% of Group total assets and 83% of misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather, Group profit before taxation.
The Listing Rules require us to review: the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the  The Directors statement, set out on page 62, in relation needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed to going concern and longer-term viability page 42 : the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does above and the information to be reported back.
Planning meetings  The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This were held with component auditors in order to assess the key audit 39 relating to the Companys compliance with the ten testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad risks, audit strategy and work to be undertaken.
The Group audit provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting team approved the materiality of each of the components, which for our review: and significant time of the most experienced members of the audit ranged from 5.5m to 10m, having regard to the mix of size and  Certain elements of remuneration disclosures in the report team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the risk profile of the Group across the components.
audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors in all of these Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in 6.
These instructions covered the significant accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. to report by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 are set out audit areas to be covered by these audits which included the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the below relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set Companys members those matters we are required to state to We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters out the information required to be reported to the Group audit them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 which requires us to team.
Senior members of the Group audit team, including the lead extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility report to you if, in our opinion: engagement partner, attended each component audit closing to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members meeting via telephone conferencing facilities, at which the results  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we of component audits were discussed with divisional and Group parent company: have formed.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the  Returns adequate for our audit have not been received Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further from branches not visited by us: work required by the Group audit team was then performed by Cliona Mullen,  The financial statements are not in agreement with the the component auditor.
The Group audit team interacted with the for and on behalf of accounting records: or component teams where appropriate during various stages of the KPMG  We have not received all the information and explanations audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm we require for our audit.
This, together with the 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us 28 February 2017 appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
65 64 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 65
