Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc Our opinion on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach In our opinion: J Sainsbury plcs Group financial statements and parent company Risks of material misstatement financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Supplier arrangements viewof the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as Aspects of revenue recognition at12March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: Sainsburys Bank customer receivables impairment the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Impairment of land and stores and onerous leases accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: Pensions accounting the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in IT environment accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Audit scope the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We performed a full scope audit of the complete financial information requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group of the following components: J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Supermarkets Limited and Sainsburys Bank plc.
We performed audit procedures on specific balances for the property companies, joint What we have audited ventures and insurance company due to the size and risk of certain J Sainsbury plcs financial statements comprise: individual balances within these components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures Group Parent company accounted for 98 per cent of Profit before tax before one-off items, 100 per cent of Revenue and 95 per cent of Total assets.
Group income statement for the period Balance sheet as at 12 March ended 12 March 2016 2016 Materiality Group statement of comprehensive Cash flow statement for the income for the period ended 12 March period then ended Overall Group materiality is 31.9 million which represents 5 per cent 2016 of profit before tax before one-off items.
Group balance sheet as at 12 March 2016 Statement of changes in equity for the period then ended Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Group cash flow statement for the period Related notes 1 to 38 to the We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those then ended financial statements that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of Group statement of changes in equity for resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In the period then ended addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were Related notes 1 to 38 to the financial designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, statements consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
83 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Risk Risk Supplier arrangements Aspects of revenue recognition Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : Accounting policies page Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : Accounting policies 96 : and note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 102 page 96 : and note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 103 The Group receives material discounts from suppliers, referred to as supplier Our assessment is that the vast majority of Sainsburys revenue transactions arrangements.
There are three streams as described in note 1 to the are non-complex, with no judgement applied over the amount recorded.
We focused our audit procedures on the areas where We focused our work on the manual adjustments that are made to revenue.
management applies judgement, where the processing is either manual or These adjustments included the deferral and recognition of revenues for the more complex and where the quantum of agreements is high.
Nectar loyalty scheme, coupon redemptions and gift cards and vouchers.
Our procedures were designed to address the risk of manipulation of accounting Our response to the risk records and the ability to override controls that otherwise appear to be We walked through and tested the design effectiveness of controls in operating effectively.
place within the supplier arrangements process.
We were able to take a controls-reliance approach over certain aspects of the process.
Our response to the risk We selected a sample of suppliers to send confirmations across all deal We obtained a detailed understanding of these adjustments and walked types to confirm key deal input terms.
We did not receive any response through the controls over them and found them to be operating where suppliers disagreed with the deal terms recorded.
Where we did not effectively.
Due to the manual nature of some of these adjustments, we receive a response from the supplier, we performed alternative procedures, did not test these controls, but performed substantive audit procedures.
including obtaining evidence of initiation and settlement of the deal.
We used our computer aided analytics tools to perform a correlation We tested the existence and valuation of balance sheet amounts analysis to identify those revenue journals for which the corresponding recognised in accounts receivable and as a contra-asset in accounts entry was not cash.
We obtained corroborating evidence for these payable by reviewing post-period end settlement.
We also performed a adjustments which included coupon redemptions, gift cards and look-back analysis of prior period balance sheet amounts to check that vouchers.
For the Nectar loyalty scheme adjustment we obtained and these amounts were appropriately recovered.
corroborated to evidence from the administrator of the scheme.
We tested the accurate settlement of a sample of supplier arrangements Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the recognised in the income statement, which included settlement in cash or appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other by off-set to amounts payable.
adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the considered unusual journals such as those posted outside of expected appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments to supplier hours, or by unexpected individuals and for large or unusual amounts.
We performed cut-off testing procedures including review of post period We obtained the register of client entertaining to cross check this against end cash receipts and an analytical review of significant movements.
significant deals made during the period to look for correlations that might indicate a higher risk of management override.
Conversely we also What we concluded to the Audit Committee reviewed entertainment expenses charged in the year to corroborate Adjustments to revenue have been appropriately recognised.
There was nothing outside of our expectations meriting further investigation.
We tested deals recorded post period end and obtained the supplier agreement to validate that the deal was correctly recorded post periodend.
We assessed managements approach to provisioning for specific supplier arrangements recoverability and concur that the amounts recorded reflect managements best estimate of amounts to be recovered.
We performed detailed analytical review procedures to understand movements in income statement and balance sheet accounts period on period, including ageing analysis.
Where unusual movements were identified these were investigated further.
We discussed details of supplier relationships with certain category managers of key suppliers to confirm our understanding of the balances recorded and identify how disputes with suppliers are identified and dealt with.
These discussions corroborated the balances and movements in the accounts and the results of substantive procedures described above.
We reviewed managements disclosure in respect of supplier arrangement amounts recorded in the income statement and balance sheet.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee Supplier arrangement amounts are appropriately recognised in the income statement and balance sheet and disclosures included are appropriate.
84 Financial Statements Risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Sainsburys Bank customer receivables impairment The net impairment and onerous lease charge of 1 million is appropriately Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : Accounting policies page recognised.
100 : and note 17 b of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 115 Risk Sainsburys Bank customer receivables relating to credit cards or loans Pensions accounting recognised at 29 February 2016 are 3,423 million 2015: 3,098 million.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : Accounting policies page Theprovision for impairment is 79 million 2015: 87 million.
99 : and note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 141 Sainsburys Bank customer receivables, through either credit cards or loans, The net defined benefit pension deficit is 408 million 2014 15: 708million are significant.
There is judgement in the assumptions applied to calculate comprising scheme assets of 7,235 million and a defined benefit obligation the loan provisions against outstanding balances.
Our focus is on the areas of significant judgement, including the assumptions underpinning the valuation of the pension Our response to the risk obligation and the valuation of certain unquoted assets.
The audit of Sainsburys Bank was completed by a component auditor from another audit firm.
We agreed an audit strategy with the component auditor Our response to the risk in advance of their testing and we reviewed the results of their work.
We also Pension obligation attended meetings with the management of Sainsburys Bank.
The audit With the assistance of our EY actuarial specialists, we reviewed the strategy included the following: methodology used to value the defined benefit obligation to confirm The loan impairment methodology was reviewed, to confirm it was consistency with IFRS and the prior period.
consistent with both the IFRS requirements and that previously applied.
We reviewed and benchmarked the key input assumptions of discount The mathematical accuracy of managements impairment models was rate and inflation to relevant industry and internal benchmarks.
verified and confirmed that the methodology applied was in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Pension assets measurement.
Unquoted assets amounted to 1,417 million at period end 2014 15: The completeness and accuracy of the data from underlying systems that 897million.
These included private equity investments and swaps.
For were used in the impairment models was tested.
these assets we confirmed bid price valuation and existence to independent sources and reviewed period on period movements to look for unusual Key assumptions including the probability of default and the size of the movements.
For the swaps we recalculated a sample of contracts to loss if default occurred were assessed against internal and external confirm appropriate valuation.
The key assumptions within the models were compared to knowledge of assumptions used in the banking sector and also with What we concluded to the Audit Committee historical trends within Sainsburys Bank, concluding that, based on the The net defined benefit deficit is appropriately recognised.
evidence obtained, managements conclusions were supportable.
The accuracy of prior year impairment reserves was considered to assess Risk the quality of managements estimation process.
IT environment Changes to the modelling assumptions were assessed to confirm these The IT systems across the Group are complex and there are varying levels of were appropriate and in line with accounting standards.
The systems are vital to the ongoing operations of the business and to the integrity of the financial reporting process.
We What we concluded to the Audit Committee assessed the IT general controls environment for the key systems impacting The impairment of Sainsburys Bank receivables due from customers has the accurate recording of transactions and the presentation of the financial been appropriately recognised.
For Sainsburys Bank the key systems as described above are provided by an external outsource provider.
Risk Impairment of land and stores and onerous leases Our response to the risk Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 63 : Accounting policies page We held discussions with management to understand the IT environment 97 : and notes 3, 11 and 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages and walked through the key financial processes to understand where IT 103, 110 and 121 systems were integral to the Groups controls over financial reporting.
From this we identified which IT systems to include in the scope for our A net impairment and onerous lease charge of 1 million 2014 15: detailed IT testing.
628million has been recognised during the period.
Based on the current We designed our IT audit procedures to assess the IT environment, volatility in the industry and the magnitude of the Groups fixed assets and including an assessment of controls over changes made to the system lease portfolio this was an area of audit focus.
and controls over appropriate access to the systems.
Our response to the risk Where we found that adequate IT general controls were not in place, we performed additional substantive testing to mitigate the risk of material We understood managements process for identifying whether an indicator misstatement.
of impairment existed in line with IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Sainsburys Banks auditors received a report from the auditors of the Where there has been a known change in future use of an asset, a more outsourced systems and followed up on matters arising, performing detailed impairment review has been performed.
We discussed the further procedures as necessary.
We discussed the work performed by changes in use or changes in development plans with management.
We Sainsburys Banks auditors and reviewed their work.
corroborated key assumptions to confirm the changes in use assumptions were appropriate and recalculated the impairment charges and releases.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee Where previously impaired stores had new capitalisation in the period we We have not identified any misstatements in the financial statements due to investigated to validate that an appropriate business case was in place the limitations of the IT environment.
We understood managements process for identifying onerous leases as well as the factors considered and determined whether appropriate provision had been made.
This included an assessment of whether the appropriate discount rate had been applied.
85 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued The scope of our audit Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the Tailoring the scope aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the We determined materiality for the Group to be 31.9 million, which is fiveper organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes cent of profit before tax excluding one-off items of 90 million as described in in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit note 3.
We believe that this materiality basis provides us with the best results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
assessment of the requirements of the users of the financial statements.
This is consistent with the approach taken by the auditors in the prior period.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts of the components of the Group in the Group financial statements, we selected J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys Supermarkets Limited Starting basis Profit before tax 548 million and Sainsburys Bank plc components to perform full scope procedures, which Adjustments One-off items 90 million represent the principal business units within the Group based on their size and risk characteristics.
For the property companies, joint ventures and Materiality Totals 638 million Profit before tax before one-off items insurance components we performed audit procedures on specific accounts Materiality of 31.9 million five per cent which we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of Performance materiality these accounts or their risk profile.
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
For remaining balances weperformed other procedures, including analytical On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and Groups overall control environment and this being our first period of foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks engagement, our judgement was that performance materiality was ofmaterial misstatement to the Group financial statements.
approximately 50 per cent of our planning materiality, namely 16 million.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit Involvement with component teams coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from the to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at other firm operating under our instruction.
Of the full scope components, that component.
In the current period, the range of performance materiality audit procedures were performed on the J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys allocated to components was 3.0 million to 11.3million.
Supermarkets Limited components and consolidation of the Group.
The work at the specific scope locations was performed by the primary team.
Reporting threshold For the Sainsburys Bank full scope component, where the work was An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being performed by auditors from another audit firm, we instructed the component clearly trivial.
auditor to perform specified procedures in response to our risk assessment.
We then determined the appropriate level of direct involvement to enable us We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.5 million, which is set at our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current periods audit cycle, approximately five per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Sainsburys Bank and held discussions that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Separately he and other senior team members from EY discussed the audit approach with the component team and significant We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers on risk measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant areas.
The closing discussion was attended by the primary team.
The primary qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
team interacted regularly with the component team where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were Scope of the audit of the financial statements responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Our application of materiality are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall our audit opinion.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
page 82, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 2006 UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing In our opinion: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters consistent with the financial statements.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: We have no and Ireland exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or reporting report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Act 2006 exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not reporting report.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules exceptions to the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 39, and longer-term viability, set out on page39: and review report.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing and Ireland material to the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reporting add orto draw facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Nigel Jones Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 3 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maint enance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
