Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Independent auditors report To the members of James Fisher and Sons plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodied We have audited the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc for the year ended 31December 2016 set out on pages 62 to 106.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Overview Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 2.1m 2015: 2.0m 4.7% 2015: 4.3% of Group profit before tax Coverage 91% 2015: 94% of Group profit before tax Recurring risks vs 2015 Operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation Revenue Goodwill Accounting for acquisitions 3 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement, in decreasing order of audit signicance that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation, Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 35 Audit Committee report The risk: The Group is multinational and is developing its operations in a number of emerging markets.
Operating in these territories presents increased contractual, operational and financial risks due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain regulatory and legislative environments, including legislation relating to tax.
Breaches of compliance or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning for the uncertain legislation could have a significant effect on the results and financial position of the Group and is one of the judgemental areas our audit is focused on.
Further, during the prior year the principal customer of one of the Groups overseas subsidiaries terminated its contract thereby creating uncertainty around the timing and value of settlement.
Our response: Our audit procedures included using our own local specialists where appropriate to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions for legal and tax matters based on their knowledge and experience of local regulations and practices.
We considered the exposure to breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry of the Group in relation to compliance with laws and regulations and the existence and status of any significant legal matters.
We inspected reports returned by overseas locations to identify actual and potential non-compliance with laws and regulations, both those specic to the Groups business and those relating to the conduct of the business generally.
Where significant matters were identied we made enquiries of the Groups legal counsel.
We inspected correspondence, where available, with the local tax authorities and using our experience of local practices and court interpretations we assessed the assumptions made by the Group in arriving at any potential tax provisions and terms of relevant contracts where there are material local indirect taxes.
In relation to the termination a settlement has yet to be agreed with the customer.
We have reviewed all correspondence with the customer and consulted with the Groups lawyers as to the likely outcome.
In light of the above procedures we have assessed whether the accounting treatment adopted by management as at 31December 2016 is appropriate and the disclosures included are adequate.
Revenue 466.0m 2015: 437.9m, Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 97 accounting policy and page 70 financial disclosures The risk: The Group commenced a number of significant new contracts during the year.
Where services rendered are provided through long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date and output measures cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to either an output measure, such as deliverables completed or an input measure, such as physical progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured against the expected outcome.
The stage of completion is estimated by the Group and includes certain judgements as contracts may run over a number of accounting periods and include forecasts in relation to future costs including labour and materials which are not yet contractually agreed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 James Fisher and Sons plc Independent auditors report continued Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the Groups internal controls over revenue.
We inspected the terms of significant sales contracts to assess whether they were consistent with managements revenue supporting schedules.
We also tested on a sample basis the inclusion of revenue transactions in the appropriate financial period.
When assessing the stage of completion on contracts we agreed amounts recognised to conrmatory evidence on a sample basis.
This included the agreement of actual costs incurred to invoice and the assessment of any judgements applied in the projection of total contract costs through consideration of the Groups historical experience of costs on similar contracts.
Management assessed the stage of completion of one of these significant contracts with reference to output measures and in this instance we reviewed the specic output measures used by management.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups revenue disclosures including the accounting policy, key judgements and estimates.
Goodwill 165.0m 2015: 140.4m, Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 35 Audit Committee report, page 97 accounting policy and page 74 financial disclosures The risk: There is a risk of irrecoverability of the Groups goodwill balance due to varying levels of demand in certain markets.
An impairment assessment of goodwill is carried out annually by the Group by assessing the value in use of groups of cash generating units CGUs which requires significant assumptions about future developments.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash ows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
Our response: In this area our audit procedures included testing the robustness of the Groups discounted cash ow model.
This included comparison of the key assumptions to external data as well as our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as gross margin assumptions, cost ination, long-term taxation rates and discount rates based on our knowledge of the industry.
We used external data and our own valuation specialists when assessing the discount rate applied.
We compared the Groups market capitalisation to the valuation derived from the forecasts used in the impairment calculations to assess their reasonableness.
We further critically assessed the sensitivities applied by the Group by running our own sensitivity analysis on what we consider to be the key assumptions.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Accounting for acquisitions, Risk vs 2015: Refer to page 36 Audit Committee report, page 97 accounting policies and page 86 financial disclosures The risk: The Group remains highly acquisitive and has acquired four businesses during the year.
The Group has assessed the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, except separately identiable intangible assets, and estimated the fair value of contingent consideration payable.
Certain balances can be determined based on estimates and assumptions about the future performance of the acquired businesses.
As there is a significant level of judgement involved in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration, we consider this to be a significant audit risk.
There is also risk that the Group has not appropriately re-measured the provisional acquisition accounting notably in respect of contingent considerations payable on previous acquisitions made.
Our response: With respect to contingent consideration our work was focused on the forecast results of businesses acquired, which is the basis on which the estimate of contingent consideration is determined.
The assumptions underlying those forecasts were compared with historical trading performance, results since the acquisition date, the order book at year end and the Groups planned development of the businesses.
We also reviewed the Groups recalculation of contingent consideration payable and the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to contingent consideration.
4 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.1m 2015: 2.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 44.9m 2015: 46.2m, of which it represents 4.7% 2015: 4.3%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identied misstatements exceeding 0.1m 2015: 0.1m, in addition to other identied misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 140 2015: 124 reporting components, we subjected 40 2015: 46 to audits for Group reporting purposes.
We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at a further 6 2015: 16 non-significant components on the basis of other qualitative and quantitative factors based on our audit judgement.
These components were not individually nancially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes: however, they were covered in our audit scope in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number Group Group profit Group of components revenue before tax total assets Audits for Group reporting purposes 40 2015: 46 91% 2015: 85% 85% 2015: 84% 86% 2015: 86% Reviews of financial information including enquiry 6 2015: 16 3% 2015: 9% 6% 2015: 10% 2% 2015: 7% Total 46 2015: 62 94% 2015: 94% 91% 2015: 94% 88% 2015: 93% The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 0.5m 2015: 0.1m to 0.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk prole of the Group across the components.
The work on 22 2015: 29 of the 46 2015: 62 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
Telephone conferences were held with these component auditors at the locations which were not audited directly by the Group audit team.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodied In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: we have not identied material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, the reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
6 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement of viability on page 57, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31December 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
7 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identied other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 56 and 57, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 28 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 57 and 58, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
David Bills Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 28 February 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
