OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion What we have audited In our opinion, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plcs group The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, financial statements the financial statements : comprise: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows the Consolidated Income Statement and the for the year then ended: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income have been properly prepared in accordance with for the year then ended: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall group materiality: 8.6m which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax, which comprises profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
We scoped the audit based on entities that significantly contribute to revenue greater than 15%, thereafter based on material components in order to obtain sufficient coverage of the group.
Materiality We conducted full scope audits of the financial information of 17 reporting entities, across 7 countries.
Certain group functions and entities, including those covering treasury, taxation Audit scope and pensions were also subject to full scope audits.
Taken together, these territories and functions where we performed our audit work X accounted for 75% of group revenues and 96% of underlying profit before tax.
We focused our work on: Area of focus Complex and judgemental areas of revenue recognition.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions.
Valuation and impairment of intangible assets.
Valuation of the defined benefit pension deficit.
Treatment of the long term incentive plans and the Employee Share Trust.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Complex and judgemental areas of revenue recognition We have performed walkthroughs of key controls relevant to material The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements revenue streams and performed testing over these controls in order discloses JLTs revenue accounting policy refer to page 116. to obtain comfort over the cut off, occurrence and accuracy of revenue around the Group.
Revenue is the largest balance in the group financial statements.
We substantively tested the timing of recognising revenue in material The Group has a number of revenue streams for which the timing and revenue streams by reviewing and assessing contractual terms and extent of revenue recognition is considered to be more complex or performance obligations to customers.
judgemental, for example, revenue streams with ongoing performance We substantively tested accrued and deferred revenue by evaluating conditions, long term revenue streams which generate significant the appropriateness of the key assumptions and considering the accrued income balances and third party revenue sharing arrangements.
accuracy of prior year estimates against the current year realisation which did not identify unusual or irregular items.
We reviewed unusual or complex contracts, for example, third party pay away arrangements, and assessed them to ensure there is appropriate revenue recognition in line with the terms of the contract.
Based on the results of our testing we did not identify any areas where we deemed revenue recognition was inappropriate.
Completeness and valuation of litigation provisions We updated our understanding of managements process to identify As at 31 December 2016, the Group had a litigation provision of 7.4m and evaluate provisions for potential and outstanding litigation for 2015: 18.2m.
We met with management to discuss new significant legal provisions The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements as well as changes to significant existing potential and actual discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to litigation provisions refer legal provisions.
to page 116 and Note 23 outlines the detailed provision disclosures.
We reviewed the E&O register maintained by the Group Legal department as well as minutes of committee meetings.
There is an inherent level of uncertainty that surrounds litigation In instances where external legal counsel was engaged, we obtained provisions in relation to potential and actual claims where clients or external confirmations.
third parties believe there has been fault in the services provided.
Consequently a high degree of management judgement is involved We substantively tested legal expenses across the Group to identify in determining the level of provision required.
any other potential areas of unrecorded potential and actual claims.
We understood the underlying assumptions, rationale and sensitivities having regard to the potential for bias.
We considered the appropriateness of the judgements and sensitivities management have adopted to determine any significant legal provisions, as well as the resulting disclosures.
We have reviewed the accuracy of managements estimates in the prior years against actual settlements or current estimates.
As a result of this we determined that the overall provision is appropriate.
The nature of the provisions, being determined on an assessment of legal outcomes, means any final settlement is subject to significant uncertainty.
The results could differ, possibly materially, from the amounts provided.
102 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and impairment of intangible assets We evaluated the results of managements impairment assessment, As at 31 December 2016, the group had goodwill of 543.0m including an assessment of the appropriateness of the methodology 2015: 496.2m and intangible assets of 102.0m 2015: 104.3m used to perform this and performed substantive testing of all inputs into comprised of computer software and capitalised employment their valuation such as agreeing to the approved budgets and checking contracts.
historical performance against the budget.
The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements We considered the appropriateness of the following key assumptions discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to goodwill and intangibles within managements valuation: refer to page 114, and Notes 11 and 12 outline the detailed goodwill - Terminal growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to and intangible disclosures.
economic and industry forecasts: and Based on the results of their impairment analysis, management - WACC by assessing the cost of capital for the company and determined there was considerable headroom of the recoverable comparable organisations.
amount above the net asset value in each of the groups Cash We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above Generating Units CGUs, and therefore there was no impairment.
to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either We focused on this area because the determination of whether or individually or collectively would be required for goodwill to be impaired.
not certain elements of goodwill and intangible assets were impaired For computer software intangibles we performed substantive testing involves complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about to check the amount that has been capitalised is directly associated the future results of the relevant parts of the business.
Management with the production of identifiable and unique software products that calculates the recoverable amount by using a value in use VIU will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year.
discounted cash flow model underpinned by key assumptions which Specifically for the Employee Benefits bespoke system, we obtained are the terminal growth rates and weighted average cost of capital the model and assessed the assumptions to identify if these were WACC by CGU.
realistic based on the business plan and through a scenario based sensitivity analysis.
For capitalised employment contracts we performed substantive testing over a sample of contracts to ensure there were relevant performance conditions to allow the capitalisation of the contracts.
Based on our testing we determined that management's impairment assessment is reasonable based on the current business plans and historical performance for both goodwill and significant intangible assets.
Valuation of pension deficit Discount rate: We considered the appropriateness of the 2.80% As at 31 December 2016, the net pension liability is 198.4m discount rate assumption used by reference to the iBoxx AA 15 2014: 130.4m.
We reviewed the adjustment made by management to match the duration of the liabilities and compared The significant accounting policies section of the financial statements this to assumptions adopted by other schemes with a similar duration.
discloses JLTs accounting policy in relation to the various pension arrangements refer to page 116, and Note 31 outlines the detailed Inflation rate: We agreed the rates used by management for each pension disclosures.
of these elements to the Bank of England inflation curve.
We focus on this area as the pension scheme obligation is highly Mortality: We considered the appropriateness of the base tables sensitive to changes in the assumptions used within the model selected for use by management by reference to the mortality to calculate the valuation and subsequent charge or credit to the experience analysis completed by the UK Pension Scheme Trustees Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
Those assumptions as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
to which the liability is most sensitive are as follows: No material exceptions were identified as part of our testing of the Discount rate: Under IAS 19, the discount rate should be set with assumptions outlined above and we consider the assumptions used reference to the yield on high quality corporate bonds of term to be in line with recognised market practices.
We are satisfied that appropriate to the duration of the liabilities.
the overall pension deficit is appropriately valued.
Future rates of price inflation: the level of future pension payments is linked to price inflation indices.
Various investment market statistics are used to form a view on the long term average rates of price retail and consumer price inflation.
Post retirement mortality: Scheme specific base tables are used with an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy based on recent projections.
These projections will depend on future expectations of improvements in life expectancy and are therefore uncertain.
We tested the controls over the completeness and accuracy of pension scheme data on which the pension liability assumptions are based.
We noted no exceptions from our testing.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used by management including the key assumptions used to value the UK pension liabilities.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for long term incentive plans and the We obtained the various share schemes that were in issue from 2014 Employee Share Trust EST to 2016 and read the key features of these schemes paying particular During the year management identified a change to the employee attention to the dividend rights attaching under the schemes.
share plans which changed the dividend rights attaching during the We assessed the ownership, funding and control arrangements vesting period.
Following their analysis management considered that relating to the Employee Share Trust and the transaction flows both the treatment of the share plans in the calculation of basic earnings between Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, JIB Group Limited per share EPS and diluted EPS was incorrect and that the Employee and the trading entities.
Share Trust should be accounted for in the company balance sheet of We assessed managements accounting paper and the proposed Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
restatement of the 2015 basic and diluted EPS calculation.
The accounting for share based payments is a complex area of IFRS, We tested the revised calculation of basic and diluted EPS.
in particular the interaction with the Employee Share Trust and treatment We assessed the accounting entries to correctly present the Employee of the options in the calculation of basic and diluted EPS.
Share Trust in the Company balance sheet of Jardine Lloyd Thompson In assessing the accounting for these plans the key features we Group plc.
considered were: As a result of these procedures we have not identified any material The dividend rights attaching to each employee share plan: issues and concur with managements proposed restatements.
We have The ownership and control of the Employee Share Trust and assessed the disclosure of the restatements within the Jardine Lloyd dividend rights attaching to shares purchased by the Trust: and Thompson Group plc financial statements as satisfactory.
The treatment of the issued share awards and the Employee Share Trust in the calculation of the average weighted shares in issue in the basic and diluted EPS calculation.
How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to the group audit we determined the type of work that needed to be performed We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed at the reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, component auditors, we determined the level of involvement and the industry in which the group operates.
we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units The group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit segments, based on the services and products offered: Risk evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other the group financial statements as a whole.
The Risk & Insurance business comprises JLTs We issued instructions to each component engagement team.
global specialist, wholesale, reinsurance broking, personal lines As part of the supervision process the group engagement team and SME activities.
The Employee Benefits business consists based in the UK visited the US and Canada.
We have held of pension administration, outsourcing and employee benefits regular planning and coordination calls with our component consultancy, healthcare and wealth management activities.
During our half year review and year-end audit Head Office & Other operations consists of holding companies, we held weekly calls with each component audit team to ensure central administration functions and investments in associates.
significant audit and accounting issues are discussed and There are several shared service centres around the world insights are shared in a timely manner.
We rotate our remote particularly in India.
Although these business segments are review of significant component work papers, this year focusing managed on a worldwide basis, they operate in five principal on Australia, Brazil, Colombia and the US.
geographical areas of the world.
Materiality There were four financially significant components made up of JLT Specialty Risk & Insurance, JLT UK Employee The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Benefits Employee Benefits, JLT Re Risk & Insurance, materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
and JLT Australia Risk & Insurance.
In addition we selected These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us thirteen further reporting entities based on their size and risk to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing characteristics for full scope audits of their financial information, and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial and one further reporting entity based on its size and risk statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the characteristic for specified procedures.
Taken together, the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial territories and functions where we performed our audit work statements as a whole.
accounted for 75% of group revenues and 96% of underlying profit before tax.
104 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Based on our professional judgement, we determined OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group 8.6m 2015: 8.5m.
CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND materiality How we 5% of underlying profit before tax, which comprises COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS determined it profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
Companies Act 2006 reporting Rationale for When reviewing financial performance management In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the benchmark focus on underlying profit that is, profit before course of the audit: applied tax excluding non-recurring exceptional items.
It is this measure that is used both to discuss the information given in the Strategic Report and the performance of the group with investors and in Directors Report for the financial year for which the calculating employee bonuses and therefore we have concluded it is the most appropriate measure financial statements are prepared is consistent with the of performance against which to set our materiality financial statements: and benchmark.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4m In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the 2015: 0.4m as well as misstatements below that amount group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Going concern Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors ISAs UK & Ireland reporting statement, set out on page 96, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to information in the Annual Report is: We have no in relation to the directors statement about whether they exceptions - materially inconsistent with the information to report.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in in the audited financial statements: or preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material - apparently materially incorrect based on, to add or to draw attention to.
or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of As noted in the directors statement, the directors have performing our audit: or concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern - otherwise misleading.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern the statement given by the directors on page We have no 95, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK exceptions basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to Corporate Governance Code the Code, that to report.
remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole for at least one year from the date the financial statements to be fair, balanced and understandable and were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that provides the information necessary for members the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially However, because not all future events or conditions can inconsistent with our knowledge of the group be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 63 to We have no 70, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions describing the work of the Audit Committee does to report.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The directors assessment of the prospects of the Corporate governance statement group and of the principal risks that would threaten Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part the solvency or liquidity of the group of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to performed our review.
in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 62 of the We have RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 nothing STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT of the Code, that they have carried out a robust material to assessment of the principal risks facing the group, add or to draw including those that would threaten its business attention to.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
As explained more fully in the of Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 95, the directors are responsible the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have for the preparation of the financial statements and for being those risks and explain how they are being nothing satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
material to add or to draw Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the attention to.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs the directors explanation on page 96 of the We have UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 nothing of the Code, as to how they have assessed the material to Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
prospects of the group, over what period they have add or to draw done so and why they consider that period to be attention to.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for appropriate, and their statement as to whether and only for the parent companys members as a body in they have a reasonable expectation that the group accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act will be able to continue in operation and meet its 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these liabilities as they fall due over the period of their opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into or assumptions.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors What an audit of financial statements involves statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of making inquiries and considering the directors process from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
supporting their statements: checking that the statements This includes an assessment of: are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the considering whether the statements are consistent with the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
and adequately disclosed: We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Adequacy of information and explanations received made by the directors: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the overall presentation of the financial statements.
you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no the directors judgements against available evidence, exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report We test and examine information, using sampling and other to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
106 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Nick Wilks Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 107
