Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only Opinions and Conclusions Arising from our Audit Our response our audit procedures included - An assessment of the Groups historical 1.
Our Opinion on the Financial S tatements budgeting accuracy and challenge of the is Unmodified assumptions used in the current year budgets We have audited the financial statements of JD Sports upon which the cash flow forecasts are based.
Fashion Plc for the 52 week period ended 30 January - In addition we have tested the principles and 2016 set out on pages 86 to 143.
In our opinion: integrity of the discounted cash flow models used and performed sensitivity analysis on the the financial statements give a true and fair view of key assumptions underlying the cash flow the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys forecasts revenue growth and margin growth affairs as at 30 January 2016 and of the Groups and the discount rates used.
profit for the year then ended: - We assessed the overall consistency of the the Group financial statements have been properly assumptions and of the estimated inputs, prepared in accordance with International Financial including the potential risk of management bias Reporting Standards as adopted by the European by comparing growth and discount rates applied Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : in the models across each class of goodwill and the Parent Company financial statements have been fascia names.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as - We challenged the directors assumptions adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance on revenue and margin growth for management with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and bias by critically analysing their strategy for future the financial statements have been prepared in growth and undertook our own assessments of accordance with the requirements of the future growth potential based on long term Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group growth within the market and historic financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
performance of margin growth within the Group.
- With the support of our own KPMG valuation 2.
Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement specialist we assessed the reasonableness of the In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial discount rates applied to groups of cash statements the risks of material misstatement that had generating units.
the greatest effect on our audit are detailed below.
- We considered the adequacy of the Groups There are no changes in the risks which we have disclosures in respect of impairment testing and determined to have the greatest effect on our audit whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the from the prior year.
outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in the key assumptions reflected the Goodwill and Fascia Names - 64.8m 2015: 79.0m risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, fascia names.
pages 109 to 110 accounting policy and pages 106 to 112 financial disclosures Carrying Value of Inventories 238.3m 2015: 225.0m The risk There is a risk of impairment of the groups Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, significant goodwill and fascia name balances due to page 119 accounting policy and page 119 challenging trading conditions in certain of the high financial disclosures street retail sectors and locations that the Group operates in.
Goodwill and fascia names are reviewed The risk over the carrying value of inventories is by the directors for impairment using value in use considered a significant audit risk due to the models.
The directors perform their reviews on groups seasonal nature of the Groups core retail business, of individual cash generating units CGUs.
Included the changing desirability of branded products over within the 10.6m total impairment of intangible time and the judgment therefore made in assessing assets recognised in the year is a write down of 6.6m the recoverability of its carrying value.
in relation to the Activinstinct goodwill and 3.5m in relation to the Blacks fascia name.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are used as the basis of the assessment of recoverability of all goodwill and fascia names, this is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit concentrated on.
83 83 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only continued Our response Our audit procedures included of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax testing the principles and integrity of the or total group assets.
For the remaining components, obsolescence provision calculations used across the we performed analysis at an aggregated group level Group principally by performing our own assessments to re-examine our assessment that there were no in relation to key assumptions within the model such significant risks of material misstatement within these.
as the proportion of current inventory expected to become aged in the future and average proceeds The Group audit team performed the audits of the received for aged inventory.
We assessed the UK components in accordance with materiality levels overall consistency of the assumptions, including used for local audits.
These local materiality levels the potential risk of management bias by were set individually for each component in the Group comparing the assumptions to those used in prior and were 6.2m and 2.6m for JD Sports Fashion Plc periods, coupled with a review of inventory sold and Blacks Outdoor Retail Limited respectively.
The below cost during the year and margins achieved Group audit team instructed component auditors on for aged inventory sold post year end.
Finally we component materiality, which was 1.5m for both the considered the adequacy of the financial Sprinter and Chausport sub-groups.
statements disclosures in respect of gross inventory and inventory provisioning.
Our Opinion on Other Ma tters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is Unmodified 3.
Our Applica tion of Materiality and an Overview of In our opinion: the Scope of our Audit The materiality of the Group financial statements as the part of the Directors Remuneration report a whole was set at 7.0 million 2015: 8.0 million.
to be audited has been properly prepared in This has been determined with reference to a benchmark accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and of Group profit before tax from continuing operations, the information given in the Strategic report and normalised to exclude this years exceptional items as Directors report for the financial year for which disclosed in note 4, which we consider to be one of the the financial statements are prepared is consistent principal considerations for members of the company with the financial statements, and in assessing the financial performance of the Group, of information given in the Corporate Governance which it represents 4.5% reflecting industry consensus Statement set out on pages 68 to 72 with respect levels.
In 2015 materiality was determined with reference to internal control and risk management systems to a benchmark of Group operating profit, normalised in relation to financial reporting processes and to exclude that years exceptional items, from both about share capital structures is consistent with continuing and discontinued operations, of which it the financial statements represented 8.6%.
W e Have Nothing to Report on the Disclosure We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and of Principal Risks uncorrected misstatements exceeding 0.3 million, in Based on the knowledge we acquired during our addition to other audit misstatements that warranted audit, we have nothing material to add or draw reporting on qualitative grounds.
attention to in relation to: Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed the directors Viability Statement on page 67 by component auditors at the key reporting components concerning the principal risks, their management, in the following countries: UK two entities, France one and, based on that, the directors assessment and entity, and Spain one entity, which is consistent with expectations of the groups continuing in operation the key reporting components in the prior year.
The over the 5 years to 2021: Group audit team instructed component auditors as or to the significant areas to be covered, including the the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements relevant risks detailed above and the information to concerning the use of the going concern basis be reported back.
The Group team held telephone of accounting.
conference meetings with the component auditors, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
The group procedures covered 79% of total Group revenue 2015: 74% : 83% of the total Group profits and losses before taxation 2015: 83% : and 88% of total Group assets and liabilities 2015: 90%.
The remaining 21% of total group revenue, 17% of group profit before tax and 12% of total group assets is represented by 29 reporting components 2015: 24, none of which individually represented more than 3% Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of JD Sports Fashion Plc only continued 6.
W e Have Nothing to Report in Respect of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception the Directors statement, set out on page 67, Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report in relation to going concern and longer-term to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during viability: and our audit, we have identified other information in the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement annual report that contains a material inconsistency on pages 68 and 72 relating to the companys with either that knowledge or the financial statements, compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 a material misstatement or fact, or that is otherwise UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our misleading.
review: and In particular we are required to report to you if: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and Scope of Report and Responsibilities the Directors statement that they consider that the As explained more fully in the Directors annual report and financial statements taken as Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and directors are responsible for the preparation of the provides information necessary for shareholders financial statements and for being satisfied that they to assess the Groups performance, business model give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope and strategy: or of an audit of financial statements is provided on the the section of the Corporate Governance Statement Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does uk auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely not appropriately address matters communicated to the companys members as a body and is subject by us to the Audit Committee.
to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which report to you if, in our opinion: are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of adequate accounting records have not been kept the purpose of this report, the work we have by the parent company, or returns adequate for our undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor audited are not in agreement with the accounting for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor records and returns: or Chartered Accountants certain disclosures of Directors remuneration 1 St. Peters Square, Manchester, M2 3AE specified by law are not made: or 13 April 2016 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company 85 85 Financial Statements
