70 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: and the related notes 1 to 25 of the Group financial statements and the related notes 1 to 13 of the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of investments Valuation of defined benefit pension schemes.
The above risks are consistent with the prior year.
As part of the valuation of investments, we have paid particular attention to the valuation of investments in the New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste projects being the Groups investment in Manchester VL Co and Manchester TPS Co. Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 19 million which is below 2% 2015 2% of shareholders equity.
We selected shareholders equity as net asset value is a key performance indicator for the Group.
Scoping Our audit scope primarily focused on the fair value of those PPP and Renewable Energy investments which are significant to the Group.
Specific audit procedures were performed on a sample of investments which comprised 78% 2015 85% of the total valuation of investments.
Other investments were subject to review procedures.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in the current year.
in our approach John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors We confirm that we have nothing material to add or statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of draw attention to in respect of these matters.
accounting contained within note 2d to the Group financial statements We agreed with the directors adoption of the going and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group concern basis of accounting and we did not identify contained within the strategic report on page 34. any such material uncertainties.
However, because We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or not all future events or conditions can be predicted, draw attention to in relation to: this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors' confirmation on page 35 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 35 to 40 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2d to the Group financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 34 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical We confirm that we are independent of the Group Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with responsibilities in accordance with those those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 72 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
There have been no changes to the risks identified in the current year.
However, we have paid particular attention to the valuation of investments in the New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste projects being the Groups investment in Manchester VL Co and Manchester Waste TPS Co. VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS Risk description The Group holds a range of investments which primarily include PPP and renewable energy assets.
The total value of these assets at 31 December 2016 was 1,176 million 31 December 2015 841 million as disclosed in note 11 to the Group financial statements.
These underlying assets are held across a range of different sectors comprising Transport, Environmental including Renewable Energy and Social Infrastructure, and a range of geographies including the UK, Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
The valuation of investments is a significant judgement underpinned by a number of key assumptions and estimates.
These judgements include discount rates, forecast project cash-flows and macro-economic assumptions such as future inflation and deposit rates.
Many of these assumptions differ depending on both the sector and geography of the project.
A full internal valuation is prepared at June and December each year and this valuation is incorporated into the financial statements.
An independent opinion is obtained from an external valuer that the portfolio as a whole represents fair value.
As disclosed on page 9 and of the strategic report and in note 2 to the Group financial statements, the New Royal Adelaide Hospital project is experiencing construction delays and the Manchester Waste VL Co project is experiencing increased counterparty risk.
Consequently, there is increased judgement to be made around the valuation of the investment in each project including the completion date of New Royal Adelaide Hospital and the outcome of discussions with the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority GMWDA on the future of the Manchester Waste VL Co project.
More information on the valuation and valuation methodology including the judgements associated with the valuation of the investments in New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste can be found on page 53 of the Audit & Risk Committee report and note 2 to the Group financial statements.
How the scope We assessed the design and implementation of the controls in place when valuing the Groups investments.
of our audit We obtained evidence, including external market data, to substantiate key assumptions, including project responded discount rate s and macro-economic assumptions such as forecast inflation and deposit rates.
to the risk We benchmarked managements discount rates against market transaction data, including the Groups disposals in the current and previous period.
We performed this work in conjunction with our own valuation specialists.
On the valuation of the New Royal Adelaide Hospital and Manchester Waste investments we reviewed, where relevant, the legal advice obtained and held discussions with the Groups external legal counsel, reviewed contractual documentation and held discussions with the directors of each project company to understand and challenge the key judgements in valuing each project.
We met with the Groups external valuer to understand and challenge the process undertaken by them in arriving at their opinion that the portfolio as a whole represents fair value.
We also assessed the competency and independence of the external valuer.
We checked that the disclosures in the financial statements were appropriate particularly in respect of the judgements taken.
Key observations No material matters were identified arising from our audit work.
We consider the judgements adopted in valuing the Groups investments to be appropriate.
We also consider the disclosures around the valuation of investments to be appropriate.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED VALUATION OF DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES Risk description The Group has two defined benefit pension schemes The John Laing Pension Fund and The John Laing Pension Plan which had a combined deficit of 61 million at 31 December 2016 39 million at 31 December 2015.
The valuation of the deficit is subject to a number of judgements including the adoption of the appropriate i discount rates ii inflation rates and iii mortality rate assumptions.
There is also a judgement concerning the Groups ability to recover a surplus under the scheme rules and consequently the consideration of minimum funding requirements under IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
See note 18 to the Group financial statements for further information and page 53 of the Audit & Risk Committee report.
How the scope We assessed the design and implementation of the controls in place when valuing the Groups defined of our audit benefit pension schemes including the setting of actuarial assumptions.
responded In conjunction with our internal actuarial specialists, we compared the Groups key assumptions, to the risk including the discount rate, mortality rate assumptions and the inflation rates against our own benchmarks and those adopted by other companies in the market.
We audited the scheme assets via agreement to external confirmations from the custodian and also agreed a sample of scheme assets back to independent market data.
We also obtained and reviewed the AAF 01 06 ISAE 3402 assurance report on internal controls for each custodian to assess if there were any matters which impact our work.
In assessing the impact of IFRIC 14, we examined the nature of the Groups funding commitments to the schemes and reviewed the scheme rules, the external legal advice obtained by management and the actuarial schedule of contributions.
We checked that the disclosure requirements of IAS 19R Employee Benefits had been fulfilled.
We consider the judgements adopted by the Group in valuing the pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate and concur that the Group has the ability to recover any surplus under the rules of the John Laing Pension Fund and consequently is not subject to a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC 14.
We also consider the disclosures around the valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes to be appropriate.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 19 million 2015 16 million Basis for determining materiality Below 2% of shareholders equity Rationale for the benchmark applied Shareholders equity was selected as net asset value is a key performance indicator for the Group.
This is consistent with the prior year.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 500,000 2015 320,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 74 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC CONTINUED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our audit scope primarily focused on the fair value of those PPP and Renewable Energy investments which are significant to the Group.
Audit work was performed on a sample of investments which comprised 78% 2015 85% of the total valuation of investments.
We made enquiries of the auditors of a sample of investments as to whether they were aware of any matters which may impact the fair value of those investments.
Our audit work on those subsidiaries which provide asset management services and which are consolidated in the Group financial statements was executed at a materiality lower than Group materiality.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team has initiated a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that it visits a sample of the Groups investments each year with a specific focus on visiting the Groups largest investments by value.
This year the Group audit team visited one of the Groups investments.
The Group audit team visited four of the Groups investments in the prior year.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report report arising from to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
report arising from these matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our We confirm that opinion, information in the annual report is: we have not identified any such materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or inconsistencies or misleading apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group statements.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Claire Faulkner FCA Senior statutory auditor FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 6 March 2017 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
