182 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 5.
Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the accounts is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Johnson Matthey Plc for the year ended 31st March 2016 set out on pages 134 to 181.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31st March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : the parent company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We summarise below the risks of material misstatement unchanged from 2015 that had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing order of audit significance, our key audit procedures to address those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the company's members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the accounts as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the accounts.
Refinery process and stock takes Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report and page 179 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response and conclusions The group refines a significant amount of metal as set We assessed through observation, interview and reperformance on a sample out in note 41.
The year end metal inventory quantity basis the adequacy of group controls over metal processing and inventory is determined from: assay estimates of the metal including physical security, metal receipt dispatch, metal recording, assaying contained in the carrier material entering and refined and stock takes.
metal leaving the refining process: and estimates of We attended physical stock takes to verify adherence to stock take process losses, rolled forward from assay estimates processes.
We sought to understand and corroborate the reasons for of the metal content in the plants at the time of significant or unusual movements in inventory quantities between the stock takes which take place at different times earlier accounting records and the physical stock takes.
We evaluated the roll than the financial year end.
Further, in the main the forward of inventory from the point of stock take to the year end to assess plants process material on behalf of third parties the potential for misstatement.
whereby the group must return pre-agreed We assessed provisions for inventory loss compared to historical trends and recoverable quantities of refined metal to those stock take results to assess the likelihood and quantum of processing loss parties: under or over recoveries reduce or increase if any of metal between the date of the stock take and the year end date.
the groups own metal inventory.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree The groups inventory quantities are subject to a of estimation involved in arriving at the measured inventory.
significant degree of estimation across both its own inventory and the material being processed for third As a result, we satisfied ourselves that the valuation of inventory is parties, such that a small variation in estimates could appropriately stated.
have a material effect on the accounts.
183 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report, page 140 accounting policies and pages 146, 159 to 162 and 179 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response and conclusions The group has significant intangible assets arising Our audit procedures included detailed testing of the directors impairment from the acquisition of businesses and investments assessment for each area of the business to which goodwill has been in new products and technologies.
Some investments allocated and other major assets for which impairment triggers were identified.
and recent acquisitions are still at an early stage of We obtained the discounted cash flow models and assessed the principles commercial development and as such, carry a greater and integrity of each model.
risk that they will not be commercially viable.
The We challenged the groups valuation assumptions for its cash flow projections, group has also experienced challenging conditions with reference to internally and externally derived sources and taking into in certain markets including Process Technologies account the groups historical forecasting accuracy.
We assessed the inputs and Fuel Cells which have resulted in significant based on our own insights and experience and challenged the appropriateness restructuring activities.
of the discount rate by using our own valuation specialists.
Recoverability of these assets is based on forecasting We considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of and discounting future cash flows, which are impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the inherently judgmental.
outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
As a result of our work we determined that the quantum of impairment recognised in the year ended 31st March 2016 was appropriate.
For those intangible assets, where management determined no impairment was required, we found these judgments were supported by reasonable assumptions.
Post-employment benefits Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 142 accounting policy and pages 152 to 158 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response and conclusions Significant estimates are made in valuing the groups Our procedures included challenging the key assumptions, being the discount post-employment benefit plans.
Small changes in rates: inflation rates and mortality life expectancies supporting the groups assumptions and estimates used to value the groups post-employment benefit obligations valuations, with the support of our own net post-employment benefit liabilities would have a actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions significant effect on the groups financial position.
used against externally derived data.
We have also assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of post-employment benefits.
As a result of our testing we concluded that the net post-employment benefit liability was appropriately stated.
Taxation accounting Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 142 accounting policy and page 179 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response and conclusions The group operates in multiple jurisdictions governed In this area our audit procedures included assessment of correspondence by national tax laws and regulations and is required to with the relevant tax authorities and the use of our own local and international estimate the tax effect of cross border transactions tax specialists, who have knowledge of the relevant indirect and direct tax including transfer pricing arrangements.
Where the regimes and experience in their application, to analyse and challenge the precise impact of these laws and regulations on assumptions used to determine the tax charge.
We also assessed the indirect taxes and the tax payable on profits arising adequacy of the groups disclosures in this regard.
in those jurisdictions is unclear, the group seeks to From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of tax provisioning to make reasonable estimates to determine the tax be appropriate.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 184 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 5.
Accounts INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Adjusted profit before tax Materiality 397.3 million 20.5 million 2015 422.8 million 2015 20.5 million 20.5 million Whole accounts materiality 2015 20.5 million 9.0 million Range of materiality at 55 components 0.1 million to 9.0 million 2015 0.1 million to 9.0 million 0.5 million Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2015 0.5 million Materiality for the group accounts as a whole was set at 20.5 million 2015 20.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, excluding the profit on sale or liquidation of businesses of 130.0 million and major impairment and restructuring charges of 141.0 million as disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement, of which it represents 5% of the adjusted benchmark 2015 5%.
Our procedures in relation to impairments are described above, and we also carried out audit procedures to assess the accuracy of the profit on sale of the Research Chemicals business and the accuracy and appropriateness of the allocation of expense to the restructuring charges.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million 2015 0.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we considered the decentralised nature of the groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the group operates, our historical audit findings and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered the financial significance and risks associated with each business together with any local statutory audit requirements.
Of the groups reporting components, we subjected 43 2015 43 to audits for group reporting purposes and 12 2015 13 to specified risk focused audit procedures, the most significant of which were in China, Germany, India, Macedonia, South Africa, Sweden, UK and USA.
The components for which we performed specified risk focused procedures were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 88% of group revenue, 83% of group profit before tax PBT : and 81% of group total assets.
KPMG is the local statutory auditor to many of the companys subsidiaries around the world performing work in addition to that required for group reporting purposes.
These local statutory audits are performed to local audit standards and sometimes to a different reporting period to the group.
At businesses where KPMG does not perform audit work for group purposes we receive reports from local auditors on the results of their statutory audit work.
This enables us to consider whether there is a risk of significant misstatement to the groups results that could arise from these businesses.
In total these statutory audits comprise 11% of group revenue: 7% of group profit before tax and 8% of group total assets.
14% 12% 15% 17% 11% 19% 17% 10% 9% 16% 10% 13% 2016 2015 Total assets Total assets 68% 73% PBT 74% PBT 75% Audits for group reporting purposes Specified risk focused audit procedures Revenue 77% Revenue 70% Analysis at aggregated group level The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1 million to 9.0 million 2015 0.1 million to 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the group across the components.
The work on 42 of the 55 components 2015 43 of the 56 components was performed by the component auditors and the rest by the group audit team.
The group audit team visited 7 component locations 2015 6 in Argentina, China, Macedonia, Mexico, the Netherlands, UK and USA, to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
185 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified The part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited extends from the Single Figure Table of Remuneration on page 119 to, and including, the Statement of Directors Shareholding on page 125: and in addition comprises the Explanation of Figures on page 120, the Variable Pay Additional Disclosures, Including Bases of Calculation and Outcomes on pages 120 to 123, LTIP Outcomes on page 122, the Pension Entitlements on page 123 and the Payments for Loss of Office on page 124.
In our opinion: the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with the accounts.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of longer term viability on page 63, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to 31st March 2019.
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception Under International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company accounts and the part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement in the Corporate Governance Report on page 86 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement on page 131, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 1st June 2016 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
