Financial statements Independent auditors' report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, John Wood Group PLCs the Group Group financial statements the financial statements : X give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: X have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and X have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies note to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: X the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: X the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: X the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: X the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: X the accounting policies: and X the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context John Wood Group PLC provides services primarily to the oil and gas and power generation industries worldwide.
Its activities and results continue to be impacted by low oil and gas prices which resulted in lower levels of activity and margin pressures.
During the year the Group revised its operating structure and now operates through three BUs: Asset Life Cycle Solutions ALCS East & West and Specialist Technical Solutions STS with additional centralised Group functions.
Our audit was planned to take into account the impact of market conditions on the results and activities of the Group.
Overview Overall Group materiality: $14.6m which represents 5% of average profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items over a 3 year period.
Materiality We conducted full scope audits on 10 components and the audit of specified balances and classes of transactions on a further 17 components.
The scope of work at each component was determined by its contribution to the Groups overall financial performance and its risk profile.
The Group engagement audit team performed the majority of the audit procedures, including in the Audit Scope US.
We engaged our network firms in Australia and Guernsey to perform the audit procedures in the respective locations.
The 27 components where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 70% of Group revenue.
The key areas of focus for our audit, to which we allocated the greatest amount of our resources, were: Area of Carrying value of investment in the EthosEnergy joint venture.
focus Carrying value of goodwill.
Recoverability of accounts receivable and unbilled revenue.
68 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risks of fraud in revenue recognition, and management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We discussed all of the areas of focus with the Group Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant financial statement reporting issues is set out on page 40.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of investment in the EthosEnergy joint venture We understood Group managements basis of their forecasts and valuation of the investment.
Taking into account our assessment of Refer to page 40 of the Audit Committee Report and note 4 and note 10 historical forecasting accuracy, we considered the appropriateness the financial statements.
of managements assumptions to support the level of activity in the In 2016 EthosEnergy has continued to significantly underperform against continuing business: testing a sample of actioned cost savings to expectations.
supporting evidence: and assessing the working capital assumptions Group management monitors the results of EthosEnergy and prepares against our knowledge of historical results.
their own financial forecasting model on their expectations of the We discussed these assumptions with both EthosEnergy and Group performance of EthosEnergy in support of the carrying value of the management and obtained their explanations which we considered for Group investment.
Due to EthosEnergys results being below the Group reasonableness.
expectations, management performed an impairment assessment using We applied sensitivity testing to the model prepared by Group EthosEnergys 2016 results as a basis.
They adjusted these for closure management, focusing particularly on revenue growth and discount of loss making operations and known management actions which will rate.
We used our knowledge on historical results of EthosEnergy and result in cost savings.
They applied their market assessment to arrive independent market data to support our sensitivity testing.
at future revenue levels and applied their expected working capital and capital expenditure profiles.
They then applied discount rates to arrive at Based on the procedures we performed, we found those assumptions a fair value in use valuation.
This resulted in an impairment charge of considered by the Group in light of the impairment recognised to be $56.7m.
Note 10 to the financial statements gives details of the impact of within a reasonable range.
sensitivities which were considered by the Group.
We re-performed the sensitivity analyses disclosed in Note 10 to check Whilst the Group have made no decision to realise their investment in they were in line with IAS 36.
EthosEnergy they have obtained market evidence of fair value, less costs In the event that EthosEnergy cannot attain these financial forecasts, then to sell, which supports the value in use valuation.
further impairment may be possible.
Managements assessment of the value in use of the investment is inherently judgemental as it involves exercising judgement over future trading levels, profitability, working capital assumptions and discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
Carrying value of goodwill We tested the reorganisation of CGUs from the prior year, ensuring that these accurately reflect the business structure and the way in which the Refer to note 8 to the financial statements.
business is managed and meets the requirement of IAS 36.
The carrying value of goodwill as at 31 December 2016 is $1,705.2m.
We obtained managements impairment model and performed detailed The goodwill balance relates to a number of acquisitions, the most testing, which included: significant of which $658.2m being the Groups acquisition of PSN in 2011, as well as a number of smaller acquisitions in recent years.
Assessing the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the model: Following the Group reorganisation management reassessed the Assessing the history of forecasting accuracy through looking back to underlying Cash Generating Units CGUs.
prior years to confirm our ability to rely on managements forecasts: Management undertook an impairment assessment in accordance with Utilising PwC Valuation specialists to assess the key assumptions their accounting policy.
The continuing low oil price environment and the of growth rate and discount rate.
We applied sensitivities to these impact this has had on the results of the Group may have indicated that assumptions: and goodwill is impaired.
Verifying the underlying cashflow forecasts to internally approved Managements assessment of the value in use of the Groups CGUs budgets, considering whether future assumptions are reasonable involves judgements about the future results of the business and the based on historical results and market knowledge.
discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
Management concluded that no impairment arose during 2016.
We re-performed the sensitivity analyses disclosed in Note 8 to check they were in line with IAS 36.
Based on the procedures we performed above, we found no material differences from managements assessment.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Financial statements | Independent auditor's report Uncertain tax positions We obtained the Groups documentation of uncertain tax provisions.
As appropriate, we tested the completeness and valuation of the The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions where uncertain tax provisions as follows: positions and treatments may be challenged at a later date.
Further details of the provision held in respect of these uncertain tax positions are set out Understood and tested the underlying calculations: in note 5 of the financial statements.
Read and considered the impact, on our audit, of the relevant There is judgement required in assessing the level of provisions to cover correspondence with tax authorities: and the risk of successful challenge of certain of the Groups tax positions.
Provisions are held principally in respect of current tax deductions Used PwC tax specialists and our knowledge and experience previously taken, ongoing tax audits, and uncertainties on the utilisation of of developments in the relevant tax jurisdictions to consider the deferred tax assets.
completeness and appropriateness of provisions held.
This is an area which requires management to exercise significant In addition, we assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the judgement.
Given the uncertainties inherent in establishing the Group tax disclosure made within note 5 to the financial statements.
provisions there is a risk that these may be materially misstated.
From the evidence we have obtained from the detailed procedures performed, we have not identified any material differences in the position taken by management with respect to these provisions.
Recoverability of accounts receivable and unbilled revenue In order to consider the heightened risk of recoverability, we: At 31 December 2016 the overall Group trade receivables and unbilled Increased our testing samples to cover more trade receivable revenue amounted to $786m.
Our recoverability testing includes testing the accuracy of managements categorisation of aging of The level of risk associated with the recoverability of these balances has receivable balances and testing open unpaid balances to subsequent heightened due to market pressures and strain in the industry supply chain receipts.
in light of the general decline in oil and gas prices affecting their operations.
Management have increased the level of scrutiny within the business For outstanding receivable balances aged greater than 90 days, we over the recoverability of accounts receivable and unbilled revenue.
On a obtained managements assessment as to whether they should be monthly basis, an analysis of the largest receivable balances, by customer provided for through an allowance for doubtful debts.
We used our and by BU, is prepared for review and challenge by the executive knowledge of historical collection patterns and reviewed corroborating leadership team.
Further to this, the audit committee have also focussed customer correspondence to assess the reasonableness of on the recoverability of receivables and on the processes in place to managements assessment: and assess and monitor credit risk.
Increased our testing samples to cover more unbilled balances for Whilst there has been no significant bad debt write offs incurred during the recoverability testing.
Our recoverability testing includes testing the year, the increased pressure within the sector coupled with the magnitude internally generated supporting documentation and testing open of the increased receivable balance was a trigger for us to treat this as an unbilled balances to subsequent invoices.
area of focus in our audit.
From the evidence we have obtained from the detailed procedures performed, we have not identified any material unprovided irrecoverable balances.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a large number of components which make up the Groups operating businesses within the three Business Units and Group functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components either by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
The Groups components vary significantly in size and we identified 10 components that, in our view, required a full audit due to their relative size or risk characteristics.
Of these full scope component audits, four were UK based, four were US based and all eight were performed by members of the UK Group engagement team.
These covered trading components and Group managed balances including treasury, uncertain tax positions, post-retirement benefits, goodwill and intangibles.
The remaining two full scope component audits were performed by our PwC network firm in Australia.
Where component audits were performed by teams other than the Group engagement team, members of the Group engagement team were involved in their work throughout the audit.
We maintained regular communication and conducted formal interim and year-end conference calls with all full and specified procedure component teams.
Additionally, senior members of the Group engagement team, including the Group engagement leader, performed site visits to various locations in the US.
These visits covered both full scope financially significant components and non-financially significant components.
Together these full and specific scope components audits gave appropriate coverage of all material balances at a Group level.
On a consolidated basis, these provided coverage of 70% of revenue.
70 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality $14.6 million 2015: $15.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of average profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be more appropriate.
In 2016, we have utilised an average profit over a three year period to reflect the current trading and economic conditions 2015: we used actual profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items.
It is considered that the current period reduction in activity and profit generation is temporary and reflective of the cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.7 million 2015: $0.8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X Information in the Annual Report is: - Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or We have no exceptions - Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group to report.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or - Otherwise misleading.
X The statement given by the directors on page 30, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced We have no exceptions and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and to report.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
X The section of the Annual Report on page 39, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work We have no exceptions of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Financial statements | Independent auditor's report The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: X The directors confirmation on page 26 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would material to add or to threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing X The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
X The directors explanation on page 27 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider We have nothing that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group material to add or to will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, draw attention to.
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
72 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 30, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: X whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: X the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and X the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of John Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Aberdeen 20 February 2017 X The maintenance and integrity of the John Wood Group PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
X Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73
