Financial statements | Independent auditor's report Independent auditors' report to the members of John Wood Group PLC Report on the company financial statements Other required reporting Our opinion Consistency of other information and compliance with In our opinion, John Wood Group PLCs company financial statements applicable requirements the financial statements : Companies Act 2006 reporting X Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 31 December 2016: X The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors X Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and X Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the X The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been Companies Act 2006. prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
What we have audited In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to X The balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: report in this respect.
X The statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: X The accounting policies: and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs X The notes to the financial statements, which include other UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, explanatory information.
information in the Annual Report is: Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the X Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
statements: or These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
X Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation performing our audit: or of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, X Otherwise misleading.
comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or X Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
126 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of John Our responsibilities and those of the directors Wood Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 30, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor and fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Aberdeen Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 20 February 2017 Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for X The maintenance and integrity of the John Wood Group PLC the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our they were initially presented on the website.
X Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and What an audit of financial statements involves dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: X Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: X The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and X The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 127
