Independent auditors report to the members of Just Eat plc Opinion on financial statements of Just Eat plc In our opinion: the financial statements have been the related Notes 1 to 45, including the financial statements give prepared in accordance with the the accounting policies.
atrue and fair view of the requirements of the Companies Act The financial reporting framework stateofthe Groups and of the 2006 and, as regards the Group that has been applied in their Parent Companys affairs as at financial statements, Article 4 of preparation is applicable law and 31December 2016 and of the the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Groups profit for the year The financial statements that we Union and, as regards the Parent thenended: have audited comprise: Company financial statements, as the Group financial statements applied in accordance with the the Consolidated have been properly prepared in provisions of the Companies IncomeStatement: accordance with International Act2006.
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Reporting Standards Other Comprehensive Income: IFRSs as adopted by the the Consolidated and Company EuropeanUnion: Balance Sheets: the Parent Company financial the Consolidated and Company statements have been properly Statements of Changes in Equity: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion the Consolidated and Company and as applied inaccordance with Cash Flow Statements: and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified the disposal of the Benelux Central provisions held for inthe current year were: business: and uncertain international corporatetax positions.
Business combinations: the announcement of the planned acquisition of Within this report, any new risks acquisitions of La Nevera Roja hungryhouse, which is pending areidentified with Any risks inSpain, PizzaBo hellofood in CMAapproval.
Italy, hellofood in Mexico and which are the same asthe prior yearare identified with.
Brazil, and SkipTheDishes Impairment of goodwill and inCanada: intangible assets, specifically inrespect of Australia & NewZealand and Mexico: and Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.0 million, based on 5 per cent of pre-tax profit of 91.3 million and capped to the materiality calculated at the planning stage of our audit.
Scoping The most significant component of Full scope audits were performed 375.7million of the Groups revenue, the Group is the UK operation, which forthe Danish, French and Australian 816.8 million out of 825.7 million accounts for 63 per cent of revenue, & New Zealand operations for the of the Groups net assets and 112 per cent ofprofit before tax and year ended 31December 2016 by 88.3million out of 91.3 million -2 per cent of net assets.
ofthe Groups profit before tax.
audit team performs the audit of the These locations represent the UK business without the involvement principal business units and account ofa separate component team.
for 313.9 million out of the Significant changes inour approach This year, we have included a risk in This year, materiality is based on respect of uncertain tax provisions, 5per cent of pre-tax profit.
In the due to the increase in the Groups prior year, materiality was based global footprint and hence the on5per cent of pre-tax profit increased complexity of potential adjusted for certain acquisition uncertain taxpositions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78 Financial statements Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we the Directors statement in Note2 We confirm that we have nothing have reviewed the Directors statement to the financial statements about material to add or draw attention regarding the appropriateness of the whether they considered it toin respect of these matters.
going concern basis of accounting appropriate to adopt the going We agreed with the Directors contained within Note 2 to the concern basis ofaccounting in adoption of the going concern basis financial statements and the preparing them and their of accounting and we did not identify Directors statement on the longeridentification of any material any such material uncertainties.
term viability of the Group contained uncertainties to the Groups ability However, because not all future within the Strategic Report on to continue to do so over a period events or conditions can be page21.
of at least twelve months from the predicted, this statement is not a date of approval of the financial We are required to state whether guarantee as to the Groups ability statements: and wehave anything material to add tocontinue as a going concern.
the Directors explanation on ordraw attention to in relation to: page21 as to how they have the Directors confirmation on assessed the prospects of the page 20 that they have carried Group, over what period they have outa robust assessment of the done so and why they consider principal risks facing the Group, that period to be appropriate, and including those that would threaten their statement as to whether they its business model, future have a reasonable expectation performance, solvency orliquidity: that the Group will be able to the disclosures on pages 22 to 23 continue in operation and meet its that describe those risks and liabilities as they fall due over the explain how they are being period oftheir assessment, including managed or mitigated: any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting We confirm that we are independent of the Group Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that andwehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled inaccordance with those standards.
We also confirm our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with wehave not provided any of the prohibited non-audit those standards.
services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material As noted above, the risk in respect The other risks are consistent with misstatement described below are ofuncertain tax provisions has been the prior year, albeit thebusiness those that had the greatest effect on included in the current year, due to combinations relate to the acquisitions our audit strategy, the allocation of the increase inthe Groups global and disposals accounted for in the resources in the audit and directing footprint and hence increased current year.
the efforts of the engagement team.
Business combinations Risk description As noted in the Report of the Audit with the acquisitions.
Of this, the The accounting for these transactions is complex due to the judgements Committee on page 53, there have acquisitions of La Nevera Roja, PizzaBo been several acquisitions and a and hellofood based in Spain, Italy, taken in the application of accounting standards, for example the valuation disposal of Group entities during Mexico and Brazil respectively, and theyear.
SkipTheDishes in Canada represented of the businesses, the recognition and valuation of consideration, the 89.1 million and 92.1 million ofthe Acquisitions of La Nevera Roja in increase ingoodwill, and 7.0 million identification and valuation of Spain, PizzaBo hellofood in Italy, intangible assets and the accounting and 19.3million of the increase hellofood in Mexico and Brazil, inintangible assets respectively.
andSkipTheDishes in Canada Theaccounting for SkipTheDishes is As detailed in Notes 13 and 14, provisional as at 31 December 2016, 181.2million of goodwill and due to the proximity of the 26.3million ofintangible assets acquisition to the year end.
have been recognised in connection www.
com 79 Independent auditors report continued Business Combinations continued Risk description continued In addition, there are certain key gains and losses in Note 9, the disposal There is judgement involved in assumptions which impact the resulted in a gain of 18.7 million.
theaccounting for the 6.0 million valuation of the intangible assets deposit paid and the acquisition Due the quantum of the gain on including, but not limited to, the costs, recognised as a provision at disposal in this transaction, we have discount rate, future cash flows, the year end.
As such, we consider focused our testing in this area.
churn rate of restaurants and long this to be a key area of focus for term growth rates.
Due to the size The announcement of the planned theyear.
and complexity of these acquisitions, acquisition of hungryhouse, which The associated judgements our risk regarding acquisitions has ispending CMA approval andestimates for each of these been focused on these transactions.
As at 31 December 2016, the transactions are described further acquisition of hungryhouse was The disposal of the Benelux business inNote 40 to the financial pending CMA approval.
As such, the statements and in the Report of The disposal of the Benelux business business is not consolidated in the had no impact on the goodwill carrying theAudit Committee on page 53. current year.
value as it had been fully impaired in a prior period.
As detailed in the other How the scope of ouraudit responded tothe risk The disposal of the Benelux business We have performed the following considered the proportion of procedures to address this key audit intangible assets and goodwill obtained and reviewed the share purchase agreement for the disposal risk and assess compliance with IFRS 3 recognised and compared these Business Combinations, as well as toprevious acquisitions completed and understood the terms and conditions of the transaction: review the disclosures presented in by the Group to assess consistency Note 31 to the financial statements and comparability of approach: assessed the net liability position at to confirm compliance with the the disposal date by understanding examined and assessed the inputs provisions within IFRS 3 and IAS 37: within the valuation models, movements since the 2015 year end: including the future growth Acquisitions of La Nevera Roja in recalculated the gain on disposal patterns, comparing them to the Spain, PizzaBo hellofood in Italy, for the Benelux business: and historical trends achieved in more hellofood in Mexico and Brazil, vouched the sales proceeds tothe mature markets: andSkipTheDishes in Canada signed share purchase agreement obtained and reviewed the share obtained the financial instrument and bank statement.
purchase agreements, due contracts associated with the The announcement of the planned diligence reports and associated LaNevera Roja, PizzaBo and acquisition of hungryhouse, which contractual agreements for the hellofood acquisitions, and ispending CMA approval current year business combinations engaged our financial instrument reviewed the share purchase and understood the terms and specialists toperform an agreement signed in December conditions of each transaction: independent calculation of 2016 and understood the terms hedgeeffectiveness and assess tested the initial consideration, and conditions: the accounting treatment for either through cash or shares, to assessed the judgements made in thecash flow hedge: the signed purchase agreement recognising the costs and deposit and to bank statements and tested the provisional accounting in respect of the hungryhouse assessed the accuracy and entries for the SkipTheDishes acquisition, and discussed these completeness of the fair value acquisition, which completed on with management, in-house legal ofthe total consideration 14December 2016, by checking the team and managements external determined by management: consistency of the methodology legal advisers: and applied to value the business and tested the methodology applied in substantively tested a sample of intangible assets with previous the valuation models prepared by the acquisition costs, which similar acquisitions and assessed management for La Nevera Roja, covered the majority of the key assumptions, including the PizzaBo and hellofood to account expense, and agreed to discount rate, future cash flows for the intangible assets, and the engagement letters with and long-term growth rates key assumptions cash flows, professional advisers: and vouched specific to that business: and discount rate, order growth rate payment of the 6.0 million and churn of restaurants by tested the post-acquisition deposit to bank statement.
benchmarking against previous remuneration element in connection acquisitions and existing with SkipTheDishes by reviewing operations and market data and the terms associated with the engaged our internal valuation remuneration, the allocation to specialists to support thistesting: theincome statement and the recognition over the period to which it relates.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80 Financial statements Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we consider the disclosure surrounding business combinations to beappropriate.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in respect of Australia & New Zealand and Mexico cash-generating units Risk description As at 31 December 2016, the Group In addition, goodwill of 476.3 million As described in the Report of the recognised goodwill of 725.2 million and intangible assets of 59.1 million Audit Committee on page 53, and 2015: 457.1 million and intangible are attributable to the Australia Notes 13 and 14 of the consolidated assets of 103.4 million 2015: &New Zealand and Mexico cashfinancial statements, determining 72.6million.
generating units CGUs, which the whether the carrying value of Group acquired in the prior year and goodwill and intangible assets is The Group is highly acquisitive are dependent on significant growth recoverable requires management to andthe current year acquisitions in the next five to ten years.
make significant estimates regarding have resulted in an increase of the future cash flows, discount rates 181.2 million in the goodwill balance The key assumptions applied by and long-term growth rates based and 26.3 million in intangible assets, theDirectors in the impairment onmanagements view of future due to the acquisitions in Italy, Spain, reviews are: business prospects.
Due to the Mexico, Brazil and Canada as on country-specific discount rates: relative sensitivity of certain inputs pages 79 to 80. to the impairment testing process, in future revenue growth: and particular the future cash flows of expected marketing and staff costs.
the CGUs noted above, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets is considered a key audit risk.
How the scope of ouraudit responded tothe risk In order to address this audit risk we independent calculation of the checked the arithmetical accuracy audited the assumptions used in the discount rates and assessing of the impairment modeland the impairment model for goodwill and managements methodology used amortisation charge in the year intangible assets.
As part of our in calculating the rates applied: onthe intangible assets, other work, we: than goodwill, and assessed assessed the appropriateness of theappropriateness of the considered the projected future the sensitivities applied by usefuleconomic life applied cash flows, understood variances management to the impairment tothose assets.
between the forecast and testing model including considering actualresults for the year ended whether the scenarios reduction We also considered the adequacy 31 December 2016 and compared in future cash flows and increase ofthe Groups disclosure in respect of its goodwill impairment testing the forecast growth trends to in the discount rate specific for historic trends achieved in more each CGU, which are set out in and whether the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of mature markets that have already Note 13 represented reasonably reached maturity: possible changes in key assumptions: theimpairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key compared the long-term growth performed further sensitivities based assumptions properly reflected the rates for each CGU to external on recent trading activity and our risks inherent in such assumptions.
market data: understanding of the future prospects to identify whether these were assisted by our valuation scenarios could give rise to further specialists in computing an impairment: and Key observations We have assessed the impairment calculations for goodwill and intangible assets for each CGU and are satisfied thatthe assumptions applied within the models are appropriate.
In addition, we agree that the impairment disclosures are reasonable.
com 81 Independent auditors report continued Central provisions held for uncertain international corporate tax positions Risk description The increase in the Groups global provisions in different geographies.
The Groups accounting policy on footprint together with the emerging The Groups exposure to significant taxation is on page 129 and the changes to the international tax tax risks and the level of provisions critical accounting judgements landscape as a result of the OECDs recognised and the associated andkey sources of estimation focus on Base Erosion and Profit disclosure are considered audit risks.
Shifting have increased the The total provision in the current complexity in assessing the year is 9.8 million.
valuation of the uncertain tax How the scope of ouraudit responded tothe risk We have performed the following of past settlements for the Group We also considered the adequacy procedures to address this auditrisk: and other entities operating in ofthe Groups disclosure in respect these jurisdictions, and the status ofits taxation disclosures throughout engaged our tax specialists who of tax audits: and the Annual Report, as well as the considered any significant accounting policies and key sources taxation exposures across the reviewed correspondence with of estimation uncertainty.
The tax Group, including challenging the taxation authorities in significant provisions are described further in estimates and judgements made locations, as well as reviewing the Note 11 to the financial statements by management when calculating opinions or other documentation and in the Report of the Audit the associated provisions held: received from external counsel and Committee on page 53. other advisers where management considered the tax environment in has relied on them to make the significant countries in which assumptions on the provisions the Group operates, the outcome inplace.
Key observations The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we concur that the total level of provision is within an acceptable range, based on the information currently available.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the benchmarks or financial indicators We agreed with the Audit Committee magnitude of misstatement in the including the final profit before tax that we would report to the Committee financial statements that makes it figure 91.3 million, revenue, the all audit differences in excess of probable that the economic decisions growth history of the business, 0.2 million 2015: 0.04 million, of a reasonably knowledgeable person exceptional items and other gains aswell asdifferences below that would be changed or influenced.
The materiality applied threshold that, in our view, warranted Weuse materiality both in planning represents 4.4 per cent of pre-tax reporting on qualitative grounds.
the scope of our audit work and in profit, 1 per cent of revenue and Wealso report to the Audit evaluating the results of our work.
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing Based on our professional judgement, The benchmark in the prior year was the overall presentation ofthe we determined materiality for the pre-tax profit adjusted for one-off financial statements.
financial statements as a whole acquisition related items.
asfollows: Pre-tax profit 91.3 million Group materiality 4.0 million 2015: 2.0 million Group materiality 4 million Basis for determining materiality 5 per cent of pre-tax profit of 91.3million was used to determine Component materiality range our materiality in the current year.
2 million to 3 million Materiality has been capped at 4.0million.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Audit Committee reporting In determining our final materiality threshold 0.2 million based on our professional judgement, we have considered a number of Pre-tax profit Group materiality Annual Report & Accounts 2016 82 Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding material misstatement of the aggregated financial of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide information of the remaining components not subject controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement toaudit or audit of specified account balances.
Profit Revenue before tax Net assets The most significant component of the Group is the UK operation, which accounts for 63 per cent of revenue, Full audit 313.9 88.4 817.2 112per cent of profit before tax and -2 per cent of net Limited scope audit 30.7 3.3 7.9 assets.
The Group audit team performs the audit of the Out of scope 31.1 0.4 0.6 UK business without the involvement of a component team.
Full scope audits were performed for the Danish, Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality French and Australian & New Zealand operations for applicable to each individual entity which were lower theyear ended 31December 2016 by component teams.
than Group materiality and ranged from 2.0 million to In addition, Ireland, Canada, Spain and Italy were subject 3.0 million 2015: 0.95 million to 1.6 million.
to a limited scope audit of specific account transactions and account balances.
They were selected to provide an A senior member of the Group audit team has visited all appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address entities where a full audit is performed for the purposes the risks of material misstatement.
These locations of the Group audit.
Going forward, we will follow a represent the principal business units and account for programme of planned visits that has been designed so 344.6 million out of the 375.7 million of the Groups that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each revenue, 824.7 million out of 827.4million of the of the significant locations where the Group scope was Groups net assets and 91.6 million out of 91.3 million focused at least once every two years, and the most of the Groups profit before tax.
significant of them at least once a year.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation component audit team in our team briefing, discuss its process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm risk assessment, attend the close meetings remotely, and our conclusion that there were no significant risks of review documentation of the findings from its work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work the information given in the In light of the knowledge and undertaken in the course of the audit: Strategic Report and the Directors understanding of the Company Report for the financial year for andits environment obtained in the part of the Directors which the financial statements are thecourse of the audit, we have Remuneration Report to be prepared is consistent with the notidentified any material audited has been properly financial statements: and misstatements in the Strategic prepared in accordance with Report and the Directors Report.
theCompanies Act 2006: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we adequate accounting records the Parent Company financial are required to report to you if, in havenot been kept by the Parent statements are not in agreement ouropinion: Company, orreturns adequate for with the accounting records our audit have not been received andreturns.
we have not received all the from branches notvisited by us: or information and explanations we We have nothing to report in respect require for our audit: or ofthese matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we been made or the part of the We have nothing to report arising are also required to report if in our Directors Remuneration Report to from these matters.
opinion certain disclosures of be audited is not in agreement with Directors remuneration have not the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also relating to the Companys compliance We have nothing to report arising required to review part of the with certain provisions of the UK from our review.
Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Code.
com 83 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on inconsistent with, our knowledge fair, balanced and understandable Auditing UK and Ireland, we are of the Group acquired in the and whether the Annual Report required to report to you if, in our course of performing our audit: or appropriately discloses those opinion, information in the Annual matters that we communicated to otherwise misleading.
Report is: the Audit Committee which we In particular, we are required to consider should have been disclosed.
materially inconsistent with the consider whether we have identified information in the audited any inconsistencies between our We confirm that we have not financial statements: or identified anysuch inconsistencies knowledge acquired during the audit apparently materially incorrect and the Directors statement that or misleading statements.
based on, or materially they consider the Annual Report is Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Ourauditmethodology and tools aim Our audit work has been undertaken Directors responsibilities statement, to ensure that our quality control sothat we might state to the the Directors are responsible for the procedures are effective, understood Companys members those matters preparation ofthe financial statements and applied.
Our quality controls and we are required to state to them in and for being satisfied that they give systems include our dedicated an auditors report and for no other a true and fair view.
Our responsibility professional standards review team purpose.
To the fullest extent is to audit and express an opinion on and independent partner reviews.
permitted by law, we do not accept the financial statements in accordance or assume responsibility to anyone This report is made solely to the with applicable law and International other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, in Standards onAuditing UK and Ireland.
Companys members as a body, for accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 We also comply with International our audit work, for this report, or for of the Companies Act 2006.
Standard on Quality Control 1 the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence been consistently applied and to identify any information that about the amounts and disclosures adequately disclosed: the isapparently materially incorrect in the financial statements sufficient reasonableness ofsignificant based on, or materially inconsistent to givereasonable assurance that accounting estimates made by with, the knowledge acquired by the financial statements are free theDirectors: and the overall usin the course of performing the from material misstatement, whether presentation of the financial audit.
If we become aware of any caused by fraudor error.
Inaddition, we read apparent material misstatements an assessment of: whether the allthe financial and non-financial orinconsistencies we consider accounting policies are appropriate information in the Annual Report to theimplications for our report.
to the Groups and the Parent identify material inconsistencies with Companys circumstances and have the audited financial statements and Anna Marks FCA Senior statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 6 March 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 84
