STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Repayments under the Groups other borrowing facilities and INDEPENDENT AUDITORS the deferred payments to China Non Ferrous Metal Industrys Foreign Engineering and Construction Co. Ltd NFC result in REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF significantly higher outlays from the beginning of 2018.
The Group plans to renegotiate the terms of the PXF facility KAZ MINERALS PLC ONLY in the first half of 2017 with a view to amending the financial covenants to ensure a breach is not triggered when next tested Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit and to increase available liquidity by extending the facility amount 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified and the duration of the facility.
If this is achieved, the Group We have audited the financial statements of KAZ Minerals PLC expects to have enough liquidity for the foreseeable future.
forthe year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 112 to 165.
However, this may not be possible and the Groups short-term cash Inour opinion: flow projections are dependent on revenue from the Aktogay and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Bozshakol projects whose production has not yet fully ramped up of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at and on commodity prices which have historically been volatile.
If the 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year PXF facility is not refinanced successfully, there is the potential for a thenended: liquidity shortfall during the period considered for going concern to the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 31 March 2018 in the event of either a sustained fall in commodity accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as prices or a sustained fall in commodity prices coupled with lower adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : than forecast production at Aktogay and Bozshakol and thereafter the Parent Company financial statements have been properly in any case.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as Note 2 a to the financial statements explains how the Directors applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act have formed a judgement that use of the going concern basis is 2006: and appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with have considered the Groups forecast cash flows over the the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the period ending 31 March 2018 and the principal repayments due Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
under the Groups debt facilities in the remainder of 2018, and have concluded that the range of possible outcomes they have 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement considered in arriving at this judgement does not give rise to a We summarise below the risks of material misstatement that material uncertainty regarding the Groups ability to continue had the greatest effect on our audit in decreasing order of audit asagoing concern.
significance, our key audit procedures to address those risks and our findings from those procedures in order that the Parent In particular, the Directors have concluded that it is highly likely Companys members as a body may better understand the process that the Group will be able to successfully restructure the by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are based PXF facility prior to 30 June 2017 or that, in the event that this on procedures undertaken in the context of, and solely for the cannot be achieved in that timeframe, 1 the PXF facility and the purpose of our statutory audit opinion on the financial statements Caterpillar Financial Services UK Limited revolving credit facility as a whole and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and together $321 million fully drawn at 31 December 2016 will we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of remain available until their final maturities of 31 December 2018 thefinancial statements.
and 14 August 2019, respectively because the Group will be able to secure waivers or amendments of covenants on those facilities In our 2015 audit report, the risk of impairment of Bozymchak which otherwise are forecast to be breached when tested at and the risk of impairment of the East Region and the growth 30 June 2017 the Covenants and 2 the Group will be able project assets Aktogay and Bozshakol were also included in this to raise additional finance and or restructure its existing debt section of our audit report.
In the current year, an assessment of if necessary.
the potential indicators of impairment performed in the period after 31 December 2016, taking account of commodity price The combination of 1 the dependence on revenue from expectations and current and forecast operational performance, the Aktogay and Bozshakol projects which have not yet fully indicated that the risk of impairment had significantly reduced and ramped upand commodity prices which have historically been so these risks are no longer considered to be sufficiently significant volatile, 2 the proposed refinancing of the PXF facility, and to be included in this report.
3 the significant step up in repayments under the Groups other borrowing facilities and the deferred payments to NFC Disclosure related to going concern Risk vs 2015: from the beginning of 2018, constitute conditions that, in certain Refer to page 116 note 2 a Basis of preparation Going circumstances, may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability concern, page 41 Financial review and page 79 Audit tocontinue as a going concern.
As this assessment involves consideration of future events, many The risk The Group manages its short-term liquidity of which are outside the control of the Group, there is a risk that requirements through short and medium term credit facilities.
the Directors judgement is inappropriate and that the uncertainty A key facility is the pre-export credit facility which was fully should have been assessed as material, in which case additional drawn at 31 December 2016 at $281 million the PXF facility.
disclosures would have been required.
The amount available under the PXF facility is being repaid on a monthly basis with the final payment due on 31 December 2018. www.
com 109 The significance of this risk remains consistent with the prior year.
evaluated the tone set by the Board and by senior management.
On the one hand, commodity prices have recovered and the We evaluated the Groups policies and procedures and tested outlook is more positive, the risks relating to the commissioning controls over the selection of suppliers and the process over and ramp up of production from Bozshakol and Aktogay have acknowledging acceptance of services equipment provided by reduced substantially and over the last few months the Group has suppliers.
We tested samples of payments made to suppliers increased available liquidity by some $350 million.
On the other and considered any transactions which we considered unusual in hand, the demands on liquidity from debt repayments due in 2018 the context of the Groups operations.
We considered dealings are now closer.
with government agencies with a view to identifying indicators ofcorruption and reviewed social payments.
When we identified Our response Our procedures included challenging the individual transactions that at face value appeared as though appropriateness of key assumptions in the cash flow projections they might have been outside the normal course of business, including commodity prices, production costs, inflation, foreign we enquired about these transactions from senior operational exchange, production volumes and timing focusing on Aktogay management and executive management.
We corroborated such and Bozshakol, committed and other planned capital expenditure explanations given by investigating the nature of the transactions and the availability of borrowing facilities based on historical and evaluating the business rationale for the transactions, taking production information and internal mine plans, together with account of our experience in the mining and other industries market and other externally available information.
We tested in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
We discussed our findings with the mathematical accuracy of the projections.
We evaluated the senior operational management, the Audit Committee and the sensitivity of the projected available cash by considering downside Board.
We also enquired as to whether they had knowledge scenarios against a set of reasonably plausible changes to the key of any improper payments.
We involved our own forensic assumptions.
We recalculated the forecast covenant calculations.
accounting specialists to assist with the design of our procedures We read the terms of the Groups borrowing facilities focusing and we remained alert to indications of the existence of on terms that could result in those facilities not being available bribery and corruption throughout our performance of other throughout the period to 31 March 2018.
With regard to the procedures.
plans to renegotiate the PXF facility or in the event this cannot Our findings We did not identify any instances of improper be achieved the plans to secure waivers or amendments of payments or indications of bribery or corruption 2015 audit the Covenants to prevent a probable breach when tested at finding: none identified.
30 June 2017, we examined evidence of discussions held to In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we datewith the providers of the relevant facilities and assessed took into account the findings that we describe above and thelikelihood that a renegotiation could be achieved and spoke those for other, lower risk areas.
Overall the findings from directly to certain lenders.
across the whole audit are that the financial statements have We considered the appropriateness of the relevant disclosures.
been prepared on the basis of appropriate accounting policies, Finally to supplement this and to ensure that the matter had reflect balanced judgements and estimates 2015 audit finding: received appropriate attention from the Board, we sought balanced, and provide proportionate disclosure 2015 audit and received written representations from the Directors that finding: proportionate.
Having assessed these findings, evaluated their plans to restructure the PXF facility and, if necessary, to uncorrected misstatements in the context of materiality and raise additional finance and or restructure the Groups existing considered the qualitative aspects of the financial statements debt, asdescribed in note 2 a to the financial statements, are as a whole, we have not modified our opinion on the considered by them to be feasible.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Our findings We found that the Groups going concern our audit assessment and the key assumptions used therein to be balanced.
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set We found the Directors plans for restructuring the PXF at $25 million 2015: $25 million, determined with reference to facility, or in the absence of this to obtain covenant waivers or a benchmark of Group total assets of which it represents 0.5% amendments and, if to raise additional finance and or restructure 2015: 0.6%.
the Groups existing debt to be feasible and therefore that their judgements that there is no material uncertainty to be disclosed We reported to the Audit Committee, if any: i corrected to be balanced and that the disclosure in note 2 a to the financial identified misstatements exceeding $25 million 2015: statements to be proportionate.
$25 million, ii uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $1.25 million 2015: $1.25 million for income statement items: Bribery and corruption Risk vs 2015: and iii other identified misstatements that warranted reporting The risk The Groups business involves mining activities in onqualitative grounds.
Transparency Internationals Of the Groups 35 2015: 35 reporting components, we Corruption Perceptions Index 2016 and our own experience subjected 13 2015: 13 to audits for group reporting purposes.
indicates that corruption risks remain significant in both countries.
These audits covered 96% 2015: 99% of Group revenue, 99% In addition, companies in the mining sector are inherently at 2015: 99% of Group profit before tax and 97% 2015: 97% of higher risk from bribery and corruption due to the significant Group total assets.
level of government regulation and their procurement profile.
This could result in material losses to the Group and material The remaining 4% 2015: 1% of Group revenue, 1% 2015: 1% improper payments not being appropriately disclosed.
of Group profit before tax and 3% 2015: 3% of Group total assets is represented by 22 reporting components, none of which Our response Our procedures included considering the Groups individually represented more than 2% of any of Group revenue, policies and procedures to prevent the risk of corruption.
We 110 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS' REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group profit before tax or Group assets.
For these remaining In particular, we are required to report to you if: components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level we have identified material inconsistencies between the to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors of material misstatement within these.
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial The Group team instructed component auditors as to the statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed and provides the information necessary for shareholders to above and the information to be reported back.
The Group assess the Groups position and performance, business model team approved the component materialities, which ranged from andstrategy: or $0.4 million to $20 million 2015: $0.6 million to $20 million, having the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The work on 4 of the 13 components 2015: 4 of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 13 components was performed by component auditors and the youif, in our opinion: rest by the Group team.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent The Group team visited all 4 2015: 4 Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been component teams on two 2015: three separate occasions.
received from branches not visited by us: or Telephone conference meetings were also held with these the Parent Company financial statements and the part of component auditors frequently throughout the year.
At these theDirectors Remuneration Report to be audited are not visits and meetings, meetings with key management personnel in inagreement with the accounting records and returns: or Kazakhstan were attended, the findings reported to the Group certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required laware not made: or by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
we have not received all the information and explanations 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies werequire for our audit.
Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Directors statements, set out on page 106 and page 58 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies respectively, in relation to going concern and longer-term Act 2006: and viability:and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 68 Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions statements.
of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for ourreview.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Scope and responsibilities we have not identified material misstatements in those As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities reports:and Statement set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied with the Companies Act 2006. that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures Councils website at www.
This of principalrisks report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk the directors viability statement on page 58, concerning the auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the in operation over the three years to 31 December 2019: or basis of our opinions.
the disclosures on pages 59 to 62 and in note 2 a of the financial statements on page 116 concerning the use of the going concern Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor basis of accounting.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which Chartered Accountants we are required to report by exception 15 Canada Square Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, London, E14 5GL we have identified other information in the annual report that 22 February 2017 contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that isotherwise misleading.
