Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Kingfisher plc the directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have Opinion on financial statements assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have of Kingfisher plc done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation In our opinion: that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2016 including any related disclosures drawing attention to any and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting as a going concern.
Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Independence the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent The financial statements comprise the consolidated income of the Group and that we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in the consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated those standards.
cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 38 for the Group and 1 to 19 for the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Our assessment of risks of financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the material misstatement European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been The assessed risks of material misstatement described below applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the engagement team.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Our assessed risks are consistent year on year.
Going concern and the directors The Audit Committee has requested that, while not required under assessment of the principal risks that International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we include in our report any significant key observations in respect of these would threaten the solvency or liquidity assessed risks of material misstatement.
of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 35.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 31 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 31-35 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or 80 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 80 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Inventory provisioning Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As at 31 January 2016 the value of inventory held by the Group was Our audit focused on whether the valuation of year-end inventory 1,957 million as disclosed in note 18 to the financial statements.
This included challenging judgements taken regarding obsolescence and net realisable value provisions.
Assessing the valuation of inventory is an area of significant judgement.
In particular for a retailer such as Kingfisher where We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements there are upward of 393,000 stock-keeping units SKUs held assumptions applied in calculating the value of inventory provisions by: across over 1,100 global locations.
checking the effectiveness of controls associated with the existence and condition of inventory by attending a sample of inventory counts There is a risk in estimating the eventual selling price of items held, throughout the year across all in scope components to assess store as well as assessing which items may be slow-moving or obsolete.
level control processes, including those at 15 distribution centres As detailed in the strategic report on page 2 Kingfisher plc have and 64 retail stores: announced their plans to cut the tail of inventory held and rationalise checking the value of a sample of inventory to confirm it is held at the number of SKUs within the business.
Further, as detailed in note 5 the lower of cost and selling price, through comparison to vendor to the financial statements, following the announcement of 65 store invoices and sales prices: and closures at B&Q, an inventory write down has been recorded.
recomputing provisions recorded to verify that they are in line These events add a layer of complexity to assessing the level with Group policy and IAS 2.
This was done in conjunction with IT of inventory which will become obsolete and the expected net specialists for some components where a manual recomputation realisable value NRV of inventory which will be sold.
The Groups principal accounting policy on inventory is on page 95 and the critical accounting estimates and judgements on inventory are on page 97.
Key observations The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we concur with the inventory balance and the level of provision held.
Recognition of supplier rebates Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The Group receives significant amounts of supplier incentives, We tested that amounts recognised were accurate and recorded in discounts, and rebates, and recognises these as a deduction the correct period based on the contractual performance obligations in cost of sales.
by obtaining and reviewing a sample of contracts with suppliers to assess the conditions required for rebate income to be recognised These agreements largely comprise of volume-based rebates based and verified whether or not these had been met.
on percentage levels agreed for the calendar year, but also include arrangements with a greater degree of judgement such as advertising We circularised a sample of suppliers to give assurance that the and marketing support.
Given the materiality of the volume based arrangements recorded were accurate and complete and, where rebates these have been the focus of our work.
outstanding balances were significant at the year end, to confirm the amounts owed.
Where responses were not received, we Assessing the timing of recognition of the reduction in cost of sales completed alternative procedures such as obtaining rebate earned from suppliers, including adherence to contractual terms, is contracts, understanding the contractual terms and recomputing an area of complexity requiring both a detailed understanding of the rebate earned.
the contractual arrangements themselves as well as complete and accurate source data to apply the arrangements to.
For volume-based agreements, we recalculated the rebates due based on shipments in the year and contractual terms.
For The majority of rebates agreements are subject to netting agreements other rebates, we also focussed on the timing of recognition of the with the supplier.
However, as detailed in note 19 on page 112 there rebate income based on the contractual performance obligations.
are 313 million of rebate debtors recorded at year-end.
We recomputed the level of volume rebate earned but not The Groups principal accounting policy on rebates is on page 93 recognised, in particular challenging the key assumption of and the critical accounting estimates and judgements on rebates stock turn in the volume rebate in stock adjustment.
Our audit assessed the recoverability of rebate debtors by assessing the Groups right to receive the rebate.
Where there were netting agreements we agreed that there was a sufficient creditor against which to deduct the rebate due and reviewed post year end debit notes: where there was not a netting agreement we reviewed post year end cash receipts to give assurance that the rebate was recoverable.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we consider the disclosure given around supplier rebates to provide a reasonable understanding of the types of rebate income received and the impact on the Groups balance sheet as at 31 January 2016. www.
com 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Kingfisher plc continued Store impairment and lease based provisioning Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The Group operates over 1,100 stores across 10 countries giving Store impairment rise to a diverse leasehold and freehold property portfolio.
For freehold properties and store assets with indicators of impairment, As at 31 January 2016 the value of property, plant and equipment we challenged the impairment models and calculations by: held by the Group was 3,212 million as disclosed in note 14 to the checking the mechanical accuracy of the impairment models: financial statements.
assessing the discount rates applied to the impairment reviews for There are several technically complex or judgemental aspects of store each country and comparing the rates to our benchmarks of market impairment and store based provisioning across the Group, these are data which were assessed in conjunction with valuation specialists: set out below.
comparing forecast growth rates to economic data: Store impairment considering the historical budgeting accuracy at a store level: challenging key inputs into the value in use computation, As detailed in note 14 to the financial statements, store impairments namely forecast sales growth and margin by reviewing both of 36 million have been recorded in the year.
A judgement arises past performance and the rationale for future assumptions.
in forming an assessment of carrying values of freehold stores and We challenged the level of past store performance to critically store assets for potential impairment.
assess whether assumptions applied were appropriate at the The key assumptions applied by management in their store store level: impairment reviews are: agreeing the vacant possession value of freehold property to country-specific discount rates: third party valuation reports: and store costs, including rent, staff payroll and general operating verifying that freehold properties are held in line with IAS 36. costs: and forecast contribution growth.
Store based provisioning As detailed in note 2 to the financial statements the Group uses We performed procedures to identify leases which could be vacant possession to approximate fair value less costs to sell considered onerous for example, we reviewed the properties when considering impairment.
currently under lease, and identified those which may be vacant or underutilised, or where properties are sublet whether the estimated Store based provisioning rental income leads to an onerous contract.
As detailed in note 26 to the financial statements, a provision has been recorded in relation to onerous lease obligations following the announcement of the closure of 65 stores within B&Q.
The key assumptions applied by management in estimating this provision relate to the length of void periods and likelihood and level of sub-tenancy income.
The Groups principal accounting policy on property, plant and equipment is on page 94 and the critical accounting estimates and judgements on impairment are on page 97.
Key observations We note that cash flow forecasting, impairment modelling and property values are all inherently judgemental.
We concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment models were within an acceptable range, and that the overall level of impairment recognised was reasonable.
82 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 82 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements Impairment of goodwill Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk As at 31 January 2016 the value of goodwill held by the Group was In order to address this key audit risk we audited the assumptions 2,397 million as disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements.
used in the impairment model for goodwill and intangible assets.
Our work included: The goodwill within the Group arose via business combinations.
Considering the projected future cash flows, understanding As detailed in note 12 there has been a 15 million impairment variances between the forecast and actual results for the year charge recorded in the year in relation to Brico Dpt Romania.
ended 31 January 2016 and comparing the forecast performance Determining the appropriate carrying value of goodwill requires to the Groups five year plan and supporting workings.
management to make significant estimates including the operating Comparing the long-term growth rates for each cash generating cash flow projections, discount rates and long term growth unit to economic forecasts.
Working with our internal valuation specialists, who assisted in The goodwill attributable to cash generating units CGUs is reviewed computing an independent assessment of the discount rates used for impairment using a value in use model, as described in note 12 to and assessing managements methodology used in calculating the the financial statements.
discount rates applied by benchmarking against those companies As detailed on page 15 to the annual report the Groups five year plan in the same or similar sectors.
expects to generate savings of 500 million.
A risk arises that cash Assessing the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied flow projections used to support the valuation of goodwill are not in by management to the impairment testing model including compliance with IAS 36 which requires that future cash flows do not considering future capital spend and whether the scenarios include inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from a future represented reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
restructuring to which an entity is not yet committed or improving We performed further sensitivities based on recent trading activity or enhancing the assets performance.
and our understanding of the future prospects to identify whether The Groups principal accounting policy on goodwill and intangible these scenarios could give rise to further impairment.
assets is on page 94 and the critical accounting estimates and Considering CGU allocation in light of the Groups new strategy judgements on impairment are on page 97. and concluded that there have not been any triggers which would require a reallocation of the CGUs.
Checking the arithmetic accuracy of the impairment model.
Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the assumptions used in the impairment model, including the discount rate and level of goodwill impairment booked in the year, are appropriate.
Taxation Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Due to the estimation uncertainty in respect of settlements with We engaged tax specialists who have considered significant taxation tax authorities around the world, assessing the Groups exposure exposures across the Group, including challenging the estimates and to significant tax risks and the level of provisions recognised is judgements made by management when calculating the income tax a judgemental area.
payable in each territory and the associated provisions held.
The Groups principal accounting policy on taxation is on page 95 In assessing the provisions we have considered the tax environment and the critical accounting estimates and judgements on taxation in the significant territories in which the Group operates, the outcome are on page 98. of past settlements and the status of tax audits.
The tax specialists reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the opinions or other support received from external counsel and other advisers where management has relied on them to make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Key observations We identified no material exceptions to the provisions recorded.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 47.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
com 83 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Kingfisher plc continued Following the Groups sale of its controlling 70% stake in its B&Q Our application of materiality China business on 30 April 2015, there has been a change in our We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial scope.
B&Q China is no longer required to be in full audit scope given statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a it does not consolidate into the Group accounts.
As disclosed in note 17 reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
on page 111 to the financial statements the remaining 30% has been We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and treated as an investment.
in evaluating the results of our work.
The locations in scope were selected to provide an appropriate We determined materiality for the Group to be 34 million 2014 15: basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material 34 million, which is 5% 2014 15: 5% of profit before taxation, before misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations exceptional items, and below 1% 2014 15: below 1% of equity.
The was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual rationale for using profit before taxation, before exceptional items, entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from as our basis for materiality is that it provides a consistent year on year 1.4 million to 17.5 million PY: 1.5 to 17.5 million.
approach excluding one off gains and losses, and is considered to be At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and the most relevant performance measure to the Groups stakeholders.
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated committee all audit differences in excess of 0.7 million 2014 15: financial information of the remaining components not subject to 0.7 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our audit or audit of specified account balances.
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when How we work closely with assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
component auditors The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits locations considered the most significant each year.
For the remaining locations where Group audit work is performed, but no visit is carried out, the Senior Statutory Auditor has discussed and challenged the key areas of judgement with the lead audit partner of the component in the 678 million current year and a senior member of the Group engagement team has Pre-exceptional PBT visited the location.
In the current year the Group team have made 16 visits to component sites and a partner from the Group team has visited each component at least once.
We also held planning briefings, attended by the component auditors from each of the locations discussed above, at which we profit before tax and exceptional items Group materiality discussed developments in the Group relevant to our audit, including risk assessment and audit procedures to respond to the risks identified.
Group materiality 34 million Opinion on other matters prescribed by Component materiality range the Companies Act 2006 1.4 million to 17.5 million In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.7 million the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors An overview of the scope of our audit Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have primarily on all significant trading entities and the Group head not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report office, and including B&Q UK, Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, and the Directors Report.
Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia, Screwfix UK, Brico Dpt Spain, Brico Dpt Romania and the Kota joint venture.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 99% 2014 15: 99% of the Groups revenue, 98% 2014 15: 98% of the Groups profit before tax after taking into account the allocation of central sourcing costs, and 98% 2014 15: 98% of the Groups net assets.
The entities which are out of our scope are primarily individually insignificant cost entities and other smaller operations.
84 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 84 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Financial Statements This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Matters on which we are required to report accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, other than the company and the companys members as a body, for in our opinion: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable branches not visited by us: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an the Company financial statements are not in agreement with assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the accounting records and returns.
to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Directors remuneration presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of Richard Muschamp FCA the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Senior Statutory Auditor compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 23 March 2016 Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibility, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
