Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc Report on the financial statements What we have audited Our opinion Kier Group plcs financial statements comprise: In our opinion: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2016: Kier Group plcs Group financial statements and Company the Company balance sheet as at 30 June 2016: financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups loss and cash statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: flows for the year then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards then ended: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then the Company financial statements have been properly ended: and prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other the financial statements have been prepared in accordance explanatory information.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere IASRegulation.
inthe Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 6.2m 2015: 4.3m which represents 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items.
Materiality We conducted audit work across all four of the Groups divisions, which accounted for 95% of Group revenues.
Audit scope Accounting for long-term contracts including profit recognition, work in progress and provisioning.
Accounting for and presentation of adjustments to underlying profit.
Areas of focus Assessment of carrying value of goodwill.
Valuation of land and properties.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
89 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of land and properties We reviewed the property-specific development appraisals Refer to page 62 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report, supporting the carrying values and challenged the key page 105 accounting policy and page 125 notes.
assumptions underlying these appraisals as follows: Inventory in the Property and Residential divisions is stated at the We reviewed managements expected build cost per square lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price foot by comparing to the build costs for similar units on other less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the sites and where there were differences, validating explanations net realisable value of inventory is carried out at each balance against third-party confirmations including quantity surveyor sheet date and is dependent upon managements estimate of cost estimates, correspondence with suppliers or comparable forecast selling prices and build costs by reference to current properties on other sites: prices, which may require significant judgement.
We challenged management on their intention to develop these The Group holds inventory of 251.9m 2015: 284m within the sites: and Residential division, which comprises the Groups land held for We challenged managements forecast sales prices to residential development 137.3m 2015: 117m and residential supporting third-party evidence from managements external work in progress 114.6m 2015: 167m where building work sales agents and by comparing the forecast sales price of hascommenced.
asample of sales prices achieved and the list prices of We focused our work on those sites with a value of 47.1m comparable assets as published by estate agents.
2015:46.8m where there is no immediate intention of We did not encounter any issues through our audit procedures development as there is a heightened risk that they are valued that indicated the land or properties tested were impaired.
Therefore a change in the Groupsforecast estimate of sales price and build cost could havea material impacton the carrying value of inventories in theGroups financialstatements.
Accounting for long-term contracts including profit recognition, We focused our work on those contracts with the greatest work in progress and provisioning estimation uncertainty over the final contract values and therefore Refer to page 62 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report profit outcome.
These in particular included the forecast position and pages 102 and 103 accounting policy.
on a major infrastructure project for MTR in Hong Kong where significant judgement regarding final values remains: and long-term The Group has significant long-term contracts in both the environmental contracts in the services division where profitability Construction and Services divisions.
The recognition of profit on is impacted by estimated future recyclate recovery prices.
construction and long-term services contracts in accordance with IAS 11 is based on the stage of completion of contract activity.
We challenged the judgements applied in managements forecasts, This is assessed by reference to the proportion of contract costs in particular the key assumptions, which included the expected incurred for the work performed at the balance sheet date relative recovery of variations, claims and compensation events included in to the estimated total costs of the contract at completion.
the forecast, and the historical financial performance and forecast out-turn against budget of other contracts of a similar nature and Profit on contracts is a significant risk for our audit because of the size and industry knowledge.
judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast costs and revenue on contracts.
An error in the contract forecast We inspected correspondence and meeting minutes with could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss customers concerning variations, claims and compensation events, recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
and obtained third-party assessments of these from legal or technical experts contracted by the Group, if applicable, to assess These judgements include the expected recovery of costs arising whether this information was consistent with the estimates made.
from the following: variations to the contract requested by the customer, compensation events, and claims made against the We inspected selected signed contracts for key clauses to identify contractor for delays or other additional costs for which the relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing of cost customer is liable.
The inclusion of these amounts in the contract overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual damages forecast where they are not recoverable could result in a material and success fees and assess whether these key clauses error in the level of profit or loss recognised by the Group.
havebeen appropriately reflected in the amounts included intheforecasts.
We inspected correspondence with insurers relating to recognised insurance claims as well as assessments of these undertaken bythe insurers and Groups legal experts where applicable to assess whether this information supported the position taken onthe contract.
In respect of long-term Environmental Services contracts we challenged the assumptions in the cash flow models surrounding efficiency improvements in the cost base and projected revenues from the sale of recyclate.
We did not identify any issues where the judgements made were materially inappropriate.
90 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made to Refer to page 62 Risk Management and Audit Committee the statutory result before tax to derive underlying performance.
Report, page 102 accounting policy and page 109 notes.
In order to do this we considered: In order to give a better understanding of the underlying The Groups accounting policy on exceptional and nonperformance of the business, management has presented a view underlying items: of the underlying results of the Group, with separate disclosure of The application of IFRS, in particular IAS 1: and non-underlying items consisting of the following: European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA 49.9m of restructuring charges relating to reorganisation and guidelines on alternative performance measures issued on integration costs following the June 2015 acquisition of Mouchel: 3July 2016.
35.6m of charges in relation to under-performing contracts in We challenged management on the appropriateness of the Environmental Services: classification of each item, being mindful that classification 23.1m of costs and charges associated with the closure of the should be balanced between gains and losses, the basis for the Caribbean business and associated contract losses: classification clearly disclosed and applied consistently from one year to the next.
A 1.7m gain relating to the disposal of Kier FPS Limited F&PS in July 2015: Our work identified certain items that management had classified as non-underlying which we considered to be more judgemental 5.0m impairment charges relating to Biogen investment: innature than others.
These included the restructuring charges of49.9m, Caribbean closure costs of 23.1m and 35.6m 4.5m of costs associated with the settlement of the charges relating to Environmental Services.
Having assessed in Construction Workers Compensation Scheme: detail the nature of the individual components of the restructuring 23.9m of intangible amortisation and discount unwind on charges, we were satisfied with their presentation as nonacquired businesses: and underlying and the explanations provided in the financial statements as to their nature.
5.0m in respect of the write-down of the UK mining business held for sale, presented in discontinued operations.
We assessed the nature of material non-recurring gains during the year impacting the underlying result before tax and challenged The determination of which items are classified as nonmanagement as to whether these should be identified within underlying is subject to judgement and therefore users of non-underlying items.
theaccounts could be misled if amounts are not classified appropriately or presented consistently.
Having considered the nature and quantum of these items, overall we were satisfied that the presentation of non-underlying and We also considered the risk of one-off gains during the year not exceptional items in the financial statements for the year ended being properly identified and therefore presented inappropriately 30 June 2016 is materially appropriate.
91 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of carrying value of goodwill As part of our audit procedures, we corroborated the justification Refer to page 62 Risk Management and Audit Committee of the CGUs defined by management, particularly Services, by Report, page 102 accounting policy and pages 120 and reviewing the financial information that management uses to 121 notes.
measure the performance of that business.
We also tested the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model As detailed in note 12 of the financial statements, the Groups that supports the value in use of the CGUs in order to satisfy key cash generating units CGUs are Construction, Services, ourselves that the methodology applied in the annual impairment Residential and Property.
The majority of the Groups goodwill assessments was in line with the requirements of IAS36, and relates to the acquisitions of Mouchel 314.6m in June 2015 that the assumptions underpinning the model were appropriate.
The majority 97% of goodwill recognised from both of these acquisitions is allocated As part of our work: to the Services CGU with the remainder 3% allocated to the we specifically challenged and agreed key inputs such as Construction CGU.
contract margin and profitability to underlying agreements, our Management tests goodwill for impairment annually, with knowledge of the Group and industry and historical outcomes: reference to value in use which is measured by the present value of the cash flow forecasts expected to be derived by the we assessed the other key assumptions management applied respective CGUs.
in these models discount rate, growth rate and inflation, remaining sceptical of explanations and obtaining supporting The services industry continues to experience challenging evidence for key assertions, including comparing to available margins due to increased costs and more competitive pricing in external data where available: and the market.
Furthermore there is increased uncertainty over UK market conditions following the result of the EU Referendum.
we also reviewed managements sensitivity analysis and Therefore there is a risk that sufficient cash flows will not be considered further realistic sensitivity to all key assumptions generated within the Services CGU to support the carrying and underlying cash flows.
Due to their respective sizes, we did not consider the Construction, Property or Residential CGUs to be We did not identify any issues with managements key areas of significant focus.
assumptions based on our review of supporting evidence, managements and our own sensitivity analysis performed.
There was significant headroom calculated by management over the carrying amount of the Services CGU, and therefore we were satisfied that the goodwill is not impaired.
We also tested whether the disclosures were in line with applicable accounting standards and no issues were identified.
92 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient and appropriate level of work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured across four divisions, being Construction, Services, Property and Residential.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the four divisions, together with its central services function.
As the majority of the Groups revenues, trading profits and operating assets are in companies incorporated in the UK, we are satisfied that we obtain appropriate audit coverage over the Groups Income statement, Balance sheet and Cash flow statement through our statutory audit work on the UK companies, which is performed at the same time as the audit of the Group.
The divisions where we performed our audit work accounted for 95% of Group revenues.
In addition, we performed specified audit procedures in the Construction Overseas businesses in Hong Kong, the Middle East and theCaribbean where our work was focused on particular material contracts where we determined there to be heightened risk of material misstatement.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 6.2m 2015: 4.3m How we determined it 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items, as defined by management in note 1 to the financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying items.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
We agreed with the Risk Management Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3million 2015: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 48, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
93 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Other reporting requirements Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as set out on page 49 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 48, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as arising from this responsibility.
awhole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 48 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing addorto draw attention to.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to beingmanaged or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 48 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what addorto draw attention to.
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
94 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Companies Act 2006. substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration audited financial statements and to identify any information that specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially arising from these responsibilities.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course ofperforming the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Corporate governance statement material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you implications for our report.
if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities London Statement set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 21 September 2016 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free frommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming ourown judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
95 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
