01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 49.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Opinion on financial statements of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Income Statement: the Balance Sheet: the Cash Flow Statement: the Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identied in the current year were: valuation of investments at fair value: and recognition of operating income.
Within this report, any new risks are identied with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identied with.
Materiality We determined materiality for the company to be 21.6m, which is below 2% of equity.
We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 3.5 million based on 2% of annual investment income, to administrative costs.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
significant changes There has been no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
in our approach JLIF Limited 50.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 c to the nothing material to add or financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the company draw attention to in respect contained within the strategic report on page 15. of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We agreed with the directors relation to: adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we the directors' conrmation on page 15 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the did not identify any such principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, material uncertainties.
future performance, solvency or liquidity: However, because not all future events or conditions the disclosures on pages 10 15 that describe those risks and explain how they are being can be predicted, this managed or mitigated: statement is not a guarantee the directors statement in note 2 c to the financial statements about whether they considered as to the companys ability to it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their continue as a going concern.
identication of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 15 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors We confirm that we are and confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fullled our other ethical independent of the company responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 51.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Valuation of investments at fair value Risk The Company holds an investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S. a. r. l. valued at 1,078.2 million 2015: 833.1 million and description this investment in turn owns indirect investments in intermediate holding companies and equity and subordinated debt interests in PPP infrastructure projects.
These investments in PPP projects are valued at 1,217.6 million 2015: 867.8 million, and the subsidiaries within the intermediate holding structure are in a net liability position of 139.5 million 2015: asset 15.3 million.
Refer to Note 10 to the financial statements for the movements in these investments for the financial year.
As described in the Accounting Policies in Note 2 to the financial statements and Audit Committee Report on page 41, the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure projects is determined using a discounted cash ow methodology, as there is no liquid market for these projects.
The complexity of this methodology, as well as the numerous, significant judgments, mean there is a risk that the fair value of these investments may not be appropriate.
The key judgements are: Discount rates the determination of the appropriate discount rate for each investment that is reective of current market conditions and the specic risks within each project: Macroeconomic assumptions including corporation tax, ination and deposit rates: Forecast future cash ows enhancements made to underlying project cash ows to enhance or change the timings of cash ows from the PPP infrastructure projects: Tax considerations the potential impact of Base Erosion profit Shifting action 4, and the surrendering of losses within the group structure on the fair value of the PPP infrastructure projects: and Additional consideration to the effects of the UKs decision to leave the EU on the fair value of PPP investments the Companys ability to remain competitive in European markets with the weakening of Sterling as well as the potential effect of instable markets on macro-economic assumptions.
How the We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of managements judgements applied in determining the fair scope of value of PPP infrastructure projects by: our audit Testing the operating effectiveness of controls at various service providers, focussing on the financial reporting responded and treasury cycles and the controls around project models: to the risk Testing the operating effectiveness of controls around the valuation process adopted by management and the Board: Challenging management concerning the discount rates applied to individual projects and to each sector, and comparing to relevant peers and recent market transactions: Challenging macroeconomic assumptions by reference to observable market data and forecasts: Reviewing forecast cash ows, in particular movements since acquisition and value enhancements made, particularly by reference to third party support: Reviewing the historical accuracy of managements cash ow forecasts against actual results: Running audit analytics on the valuation model and a sample of project models to test them for integrity and material formula errors: Visiting a selection of sites and holding discussions with the local management on potential project issues which might affect future cash ows: Discussing with our valuation specialists the valuation of investments, the appropriateness of managements judgements, discount rates applied, the impact of the EU referendum result on the valuation of the PPP projects and challenging managements independent specialists: Using our tax specialists to assess the impact of certain tax considerations and then challenging management concerning the impact of those in the fair value of the Companys PPP infrastructure projects: and Considering the sensitivity of the fair value of investments to key macroeconomic assumptions in light of the volatility noted in 2016, particularly as a result of Brexit.
Key We found that managements judgements and assumptions fall within the reasonable range against comparable observations market evidence.
We found that the methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Recognition of operating income Risk Operating income of 175 million 2015: 58 million represents the movement in fair value of JLIFs investment description in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. This is determined by reference to the increase in the fair value of PPP infrastructure projects of 94 million 2015: decrease of 7 million and the increase in the fair value of the intermediate subsidiaries of 81 million 2015: 64 million.
There is a risk that there may be double counting of forecast cash ows used in determining the fair value of these investments, with the cash ow included as both a receivable held at fair value and as a discounted forecast cash ow.
The Accounting policies related to this risk can be found in note 2 d of the financial statements.
How the As well as the procedures highlighted above for challenging the fair value of investments, we have: scope of Traced the distributions from the underlying investments through to the valuation model, and into the direct our audit subsidiary and indirect subsidiaries: responded to the risk Assessed the consistency of the accounting treatment of cash received in the intermediate subsidiary structure to assess whether revenue is recognised in the correct period: and Reviewed receivables against the fair value of investments in PPP infrastructure projects to assess whether there is cash ow receipt included in both.
Key We noted no material instances of inappropriate operating income recognition arising in our testing.
observations Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 21.6 million 2015: 16.0 million Basis for determining We determined materiality for the company to be below 2% of equity 2015: below 2% of equity.
materiality We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 3.5 million 2015: 2.9 million based on 2% of annual investment income 2015: 5% of annual investment income, to administrative costs.
We have reduced the percentage applied to annual investment income as a result of the significant growth of the fair value of investments.
Rationale for the We believe equity is the most appropriate benchmark as it is considered to be one of the principal benchmark applied considerations for members of the Company in assessing its financial performance.
We have applied a lower materiality threshold of 3.5 million to administrative costs as amounts less than 21.6m could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of shareholders as they provide the net income to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.43 million 2015: 0.32 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 1,081m 21.6m 21.2m qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
0.4m Equity Materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 53.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our scoping has been tailored by assessing the risks of material misstatement for the company.
We have applied a risk based approach in scoping the portfolio of investments, considering the cash ows of the companys PPP investments, and grouping assets with similar characteristics and risk proles together.
Based on each level of assessed risk, we have tailored our procedures to respond to these risks.
JLIF uses a number of service organisations to manage its investments and to support in the preparation of the financial statements.
As such, we have assessed the design and implementation, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls at a sample of these service organisations, which gives coverage of 80.2% 2015: 73.8% of the PPP investments by value.
In addition, we have reviewed the competency and capabilities of other service organisations to provide the services for which they are engaged.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Guernsey Law 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance We have nothing to report Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, We confirm that we in our opinion, information in the annual report is: have not identied any such inconsistencies or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or misleading statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited continued Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Clacy, FCA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 20 March 2017
