Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: Lloyds Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 325 million which represents 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Statutory profits were adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which are exceptional and or one-off in nature.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of reporting units and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over reporting units we considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We also performed other procedures including testing entity level controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residual reporting units.
The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Loan loss impairment provisions Deferred tax asset Conduct risk and provisions Uncertain tax positions Insurance actuarial assumptions Significant transactions Defined benefit obligations Privileged access to IT systems Hedge accounting These items were initially discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan.
There were no modifications to this initial assessment and these were the key matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Change of Senior Statutory Auditor Following the mandatory rotation of the previous Engagement Partner, this is my first year as Senior Statutory Auditor to the Group.
In order to better understand the Group, its operations, its financial reporting processes and the judgements exercised by the directors I observed a number of Audit Committee meetings, auditor meetings with executive management and auditor process meetings from April 2015 to February 2016.
Icommencedplanning the 2016 audit in March 2016 and presented the audit plan to the Audit Committee in April 2016.
This included an assessment of materiality, an identification of the areas of focus of the audit, an overview of planned audit testing strategies, audit team structure and proposed communications with the Audit Committee throughout the audit.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by 171 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Materiality We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement account balances and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 325 million 2015: 300 million.
How we determined it 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted statutory profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have used a 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax in order to reduce the potential for volatility and large changes in materiality year-on-year.
This is a generally accepted auditing practice.
Statutory profits before tax for 2014, 2015 and 2016 were adjusted to remove the disproportionate impact of several items which are considered exceptional and or one-off in nature.
These adjustments included charges related to PPI and other conduct provisions, charges relating to redemption of Enhanced Capital Notes ECNs and Additional Tier 1 securities AT1s, the credit in relation to the disposal of the stake in Visa Europe Ltd. and the credit in relation to pension scheme curtailment.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 20 million 2015: 20 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured into four divisions being Retail, Commercial Banking, Insurance and Consumer Finance.
Within the Groups main consolidation and financial reporting system, each of the divisions comprises a number of reporting units.
The consolidated financial statements are an aggregation of the reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed over the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction component auditors.
Almost all of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work on the areas of focus and formal clearance meetings.
Any reporting units which were considered individually financially significant in the context of the Groups consolidated financial statements were considered full scope components.
We then considered the individual financial significance of other reporting units in relation to primary statement account balances.
In doing this we also considered the presence of any significant audit risks and other qualitative factors including history of misstatements through fraud or error.
Any reporting unit which was not already included as a full scope audit component but was identified as being individually financially significant in respect of one of more primary statement account balances was subject to specific audit procedures over those account balances.
Inconsequential components defined as reporting units which did not represent a reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit procedures although they were subject to Group level analytical review procedures.
All remaining reporting units which were neither inconsequential nor individually financially significant were within our audit scope, with the risk of material misstatement mitigated through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls and Group and component level analytical review procedures.
Certain account balances e. g. cash and balances at central banks were audited by the Group engagement team.
Reporting units within the scope of our audit contributed 99 per cent of Group total assets.
Audit coverage on account balances in the consolidated income statement ranged between 56 per cent and 99 per cent.
Areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by applying materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors or management that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
172 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Loan loss impairment provisions We understood and tested key controls and focused on: Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page186 the identification of impairment events and classification of forborne loans: Accounting Policies and page 210 Note 21 and the governance over the impairment processes, including controls over unauthorised modifications to the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
models and the re-assessment by management that impairment models are still calibrated in a way which is appropriate for the impairment risks in the Groups loan portfolios: The determination of impairment provisions remains a highly subjective and judgemental the transfer of data between underlying source systems and the impairment models that the Group operates: and area.
Furthermore, the Group is subject to the review and approval process that management have in place for the outputs of the Groups impairment significant regulatory scrutiny with respect to models, and the adjustments and overlays that are applied to modelled outputs.
We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined Our work covered impairment of loans and advances that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
to customers within Retail, Consumer Finance and In addition we have performed the following substantive procedures: Commercial Banking.
We assessed the use of historic experience to Retail and Consumer Finance estimate impairment events which have been We understood managements basis for determining whether a loan is impaired and assessed the reasonableness incurred but not reported and to derive estimates using our understanding of the Groups lending portfolios and our broader industry knowledge.
We tested the completeness and accuracy of relevant data from underlying systems and data warehouses that We also focused on the calculation of required is used in those models.
impairment provisions, including the use of models, We understood and critically assessed the models used.
Modelling assumptions and parameters, such as and in particular the critical assumptions used in probability of default, are based on historic data.
We challenged whether historic experience was representative those models and calculations.
of current circumstances and of the recent losses incurred in the portfolios.
Where changes had been made in The models rely upon the accuracy of underlying model parameters and assumptions, we understood the reasons why changes had taken place and used our data including the delinquency status of the industry knowledge and experience to evaluate the appropriateness of such changes.
Our work therefore focused on agreed analysis, and for certain portfolios, re-performed the provision calculation using our own independent models.
customer treatments such as forbearance, including We understood and corroborated any material differences identified.
We also performed testing to obtain the presentation of such information in the financial evidence over the existence and valuation of collateral.
statements, in order to validate the accuracy of such In considering the appropriateness of provisions, we have assessed whether higher risk concentrations e. g. past delinquency status markers.
term interest only loans, forborne loans have been appropriately considered and captured in the modelled Management also applies adjustments, or overlays, provision, and where not, whether overlays to modelled calculations appropriately reflected those risks.
We where they believe the data driven parameters challenged management over the completeness of overlays and to provide objective evidence to support the and calculations are not appropriate, either due to adjustments made to the modelled provision and performed substantive testing over certain overlays.
emerging trends or models not capturing the risks Based on the evidence obtained we found that the impairment model assumptions, data used within the models in the loan portfolio.
An example of this is an overlay and overlays to modelled outputs are reasonable and therefore concluded that provisions are appropriate.
for the current low interest rates which management apply on top of the impairment model output in Commercial Banking Retail.
These overlays require significant judgement We understood and evaluated the processes for identifying impairment events within the loan portfolios, as and are therefore a main area of focus.
wellas the impairment assessment processes for loans within the Business Support Unit and run-off portfolio.
We critically assessed the criteria for determining whether an impairment event had occurred and therefore whether there was a requirement to calculate an impairment provision.
We tested a sample of performing loans with characteristics that might imply an impairment indicator existed e. g. a customer experiencing financial difficulty or in breach of covenant as well as an additional sample of haphazardly selected performing loans to assess whether these loans had any impairment indicators that management had not identified.
For a sample of individually impaired loans we understood the latest developments at the borrower and the basis of measuring the impairment provisions and considered whether key judgments were appropriate given the borrowers circumstances.
We also re-performed managements impairment calculation, testing key inputs including the expected future cash flows, discount rates and the valuation of collateral held.
Our testing of collateral valuation specifically considered whether valuations were up to date, consistent with the strategy being followed in respect of the particular borrower and assessed the appropriateness and sensitivities of key assumptions.
We back-tested previous provisions by comparing the gains or losses crystallised when impaired loans were sold or exited.
For the collective unidentified impaired provision, which reflects losses incurred but not yet identified, we tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying loan information used in the impairment models by agreeing details to the Groups source systems as well as re-performing the calculation of the modelled provision.
For the key inputs and assumptions in the model, we obtained and tested objective evidence that supported their appropriateness.
For overlays to the modelled output, we challenged management to provide objective evidence that the overlays were appropriate.
We also considered whether certain recent events and macro-economic factors e. g. continued volatility and uncertainty around commodity prices, sterling exchange rate movements and further reduction in interest rates had been appropriately considered and captured.
Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, we found managements assumptions to be reasonable and therefore consider provisions to be appropriate.
173 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls and managements processes for: Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page186 identifying emerging conduct risk exposures and assessing whether provisions or disclosures were necessary: and Accounting Policies and page 230 Note 38 and the calculation and review of conduct provisions including governance processes and approvals of model Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
Significant provisions have been made in respect We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we of conduct matters in recent years, reflecting determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
customer redress payments, operational costs and regulatory fines.
In addition we have performed the following substantive procedures: The most significant provisions have related to past We met with Divisional and Group management to understand the emerging and potential issues that they had sales of payment protection insurance policies, identified.
We independently assessed emerging and potential areas where exposures might have arisen based arrears handling activities, packaged bank accounts upon our knowledge and experience of emerging industry issues and the regulatory environment.
We used this and insurance products of the German branch of to challenge the completeness of the issues identified by management and whether a provision was required.
Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd now Scottish We understood customer complaints received, and assessed the trends.
We used this analysis to understand Widows Ltd. whether there were indicators of more systemic issues being present for which provisions or disclosures may have Given the number and volume of products sold by needed to be made in the financial statements.
the Group historically, and the continued regulatory We read the Groups correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority and public focus on the banking industry, there is a and discussed the output of any meetings held.
We met on a trilateral basis with the Financial Conduct Authority, continuing risk that new conduct issues will emerge.
Prudential Regulation Authority and the Chair of the Audit Committee.
We also met on a bilateral basis with Therefore, there is a financial reporting risk that such eachregulator.
emerging risks and exposures are not appropriately identified and provided for.
We read the minutes of key governance meetings including those of the Board, and of various management committees, as well as attending Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee meetings.
We also understood In relation to known issues, the measurement thekey activities of the Conduct and Compliance function.
of provisions is highly judgemental and involves the use of several management assumptions The majority of our detailed audit work was on the significant conduct provisions in relation to past sales of including volume of future complaints and related payment protection insurance policies, arrears handling activities, packaged bank accounts and insurance redress costs.
products in the German branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd now Scottish Widows Ltd. We also examined other areas of compensation payments made to customers.
Furthermore, there is a risk that these known and emerging issues are not appropriately disclosed For significant provisions made, we understood and challenged the provisioning methodologies and underlying in the financial statements.
For example, we challenged the basis that management used for forecasting the number of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
We also considered regulatory developments and managements interactions with regulators.
For those assumptions based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate forfuture experience and challenged the appropriateness of any adjustments made by management.
We also independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
Given the inherent uncertainty in the calculation of conduct provisions and their judgemental nature, we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on challenging management that the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
No additional material conduct issues that would require either provision or disclosure in the financial statements were identified as a result of the audit work performed.
Insurance actuarial assumptions We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for analysing economic and noneconomic assumptions.
We found the key controls for the setting of assumptions, including the experience Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page186 analysis data, were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could Accounting Policies and pages 213, 217 and 221 place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Notes 24, 32, 33 and Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
We engaged our actuarial specialists to assess the actuarial assumptions, including the consideration and challenge of managements rationale for the judgements applied and any reliance placed on industry information.
The valuation of the Groups insurance contracts is dependent on a number of subjective assumptions The assessment included reference to our independent benchmarking data which considers each of about future experience.
For persistency, longevity and expenses we considered recent experience and the appropriateness of the judgements applied by management on how future experience will evolve.
For Some of the economic and non-economic actuarial persistency, we also considered the appropriateness of assumptions set by management in light of regulatory assumptions used in valuing insurance contracts changes.
In particular, we considered how the assumptions reflect expected persistency improvements from the are highly judgemental, in particular persistency removal of commission for qualifying pension schemes and greater outflows of funds expected as a result of the retention of policies over time, longevity the increased options available to pension policyholders Finance Act 2014.
For longevity and expenses we assessed expectation of how long an annuity policyholder the appropriateness of the assumptions by comparing them to experience and latest industry data.
will live and how that might change over time, expenses future expenses incurred to maintain For credit risk and illiquidity premium we assessed the appropriateness of the methodology, including existing policies to maturity, credit risk and illiquidity modifications made, against our knowledge and experience of the regulatory requirements and of the industry.
premium adjustments made to the discount rate.
We assessed the assumptions with reference to wider market practice and prevailing economic conditions.
Wechallenged whether the actual asset mix remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by The Groups accounting policy is that the discount comparing the proportion of illiquid assets held to those held by other similar companies: this comparison was rate applied to cash flows is consistent with that based on our understanding of the market and the most recent public information for other similar companies.
applied to such cash flows in the capital markets.
We performed testing to confirm that the assumptions approved were those applied.
Management currently use the actual asset mix as a proxy for deriving a market consistent view of the Based on the results of our audit work we concluded that the data and assumptions used by management illiquidity adjustment to the discount rate.
Small changes in each of these assumptions can result in material impacts to the valuation of insurance contract liabilities, the value of inforce assets and the related movements in the incomestatement.
174 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit obligations We understood and tested key controls over the completeness and accuracy of data extracted and supplied to the Groups actuary, which is used in the valuation of the Groups defined benefit obligations.
We also tested the Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page186 controls for determining the actuarial assumptions and the approval of those assumptions by senior management.
Accounting Policies and page 226 Note 36 and We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
The valuations of the retirement benefit schemes are We engaged our actuarial specialists and met with management and their actuary to understand the judgements calculated with reference to a number of actuarial made in determining key economic assumptions used in the calculation of the liability.
We assessed the assumptions including discount rate, rate of inflation reasonableness of those assumptions by comparing to our own independently determined benchmarks and and mortality rates.
concluded that the assumptions used by management were appropriate.
Because of the size of the schemes, small changes We tested the consensus and employee data used in calculating the obligation.
Where material, we also in these assumptions can have a significant impact considered the treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service costs and measurements, and any other on the financial statements.
amendments made to obligations during the year.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the data and assumptions used by management in the actuarial valuations for pension obligations are within a range we consider to be reasonable.
We also read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including disclosures of the assumptions, and found them to be appropriate.
Hedge accounting We understood and tested key controls over the designation and ongoing management of hedge accounting relationships, including testing of hedge effectiveness as well as the controls around the preparation and review Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page 186 of hedging strategy and related documentation prior to the implementation of new hedges.
We found the key Accounting Policies, and page 261 Note 52. controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could place The Group enters into derivative contracts in order reliance on these controls for the purposes of ouraudit.
to manage and hedge risks such as interest rate and We examined hedge documentation to assess whether the documentation complied with all IAS 39 foreign exchange rate risk.
We tested key year-end reconciliations between underlying source systems and spreadsheets accounting mismatches which are addressed through used to manage hedging models, including testing of hedging capacity after considering the impact of structural hedge accounting, predominantly fair value hedges reform, designation of hedges and the measurement and recording of hedge effectiveness adjustments.
monitoring hedging effectiveness against stresses, we noted that despite significant market uncertainty and The application of hedge accounting and ensuring volatility during the year, all significant hedge accounting relationships continued to be effective.
We also hedge effectiveness can be highly judgemental tested a sample of manual adjustments posted to hedge reserves relating to hedge ineffectiveness arising in and operationally cumbersome, and requires close cash flow hedging models.
We specifically considered the re-designations that were required as a result of the monitoring from management.
reclassification of gilts from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale.
We found that hedge accounting methodology was appropriately applied..
Deferred tax asset We understood and tested key controls over the production and approval of the forecast taxable profits used to support the recognition of various deferred tax assets.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page186 and operated effectively, and therefore we were able to place reliance on these controls for the purposes of Accounting Policies, and page 228 Note 37 and ouraudit.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
We assessed whether the forecast profits were appropriate by challenging both the underlying and economic The recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect assumptions, focusing on those directly impacting the adjusted profit figures, for example interest rates and of tax losses is permitted only to the extent that it is gross domestic product.
We used our independent benchmarking data to benchmark a number of the economic probable that future taxable profits will be available assumptions to external data sources where possible, and also assessed previous forecasts for evidence of bias.
to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
We also reviewed managements basis for allocating forecast profits between legal entities, challenging significant When considering the availability of future taxable assumptions and using our experience of the Groups activities.
profits, judgement is required when assessing projections of future taxable income which are based We have evaluated the impact of recent tax law changes on the calculation of the Group's deferred tax balances, on approved business plans forecasts.
including confirming that the loss restriction rules, the banking surcharge and the restriction of deductions for certain customer compensation payments have been correctly applied.
In addition, we ensured that The allocation of forecast profits is also judgemental managements forecasts considered the impacts of structural reform.
when considering the utilisation of the deferred tax assets in the separate legal entities where the assets We found that the both the utilisation period and the carrying value of the deferred tax asset together with the reside.
Furthermore, there have recently been related disclosures are reasonable.
changes to legislation in relation to the level of profits which banking entities may offset with brought forward tax losses.
We understood and tested key controls surrounding the governance procedures in evaluating such uncertain Uncertain tax positions exposures as well as performed an assessment over the experience of management in evaluating these Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, and exposures.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore page242 Note 48. wewere able to place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
The Group has a number of open tax matters, for which We examined and challenged the analyses performed by management which set out the basis for their management is required to make certain judgements judgements in respect of the material tax exposures identified, together with relevant supporting evidence such as to the likely outturn for the purposes of calculating as correspondence with tax authorities and legal opinions obtained.
We used our understanding of the business the Groups tax liabilities.
and also read correspondence with tax authorities to challenge the completeness of identified exposures and the The most significant uncertainties at present relate to need for provisions.
a claim for group relief of group losses incurred in its We made our own assessment of the likelihood of the tax exposures occurring based on our knowledge of tax former Irish banking subsidiary and the tax treatment legislation and applicable precedent.
In making our assessment we considered the range of interpretation of of certain costs arising from the divestment of TSB the applicable tax legislation in the relevant jurisdictions.
We also evaluated the calculation of the exposures Banking Group plc.
and agreed these to the financial statements.
We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in particular, in relation to contingent liabilities and judgements was appropriate.
We found managements judgements in respect of the Groups positions on uncertain tax items to be reasonable.
175 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We understood and tested key controls which require that one-off transactions are referred to Group Financial Significant transactions Reporting and an accounting paper prepared.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report.
The Group has entered into a number of significant We reviewed the accounting papers produced for each significant transaction in the year including any one-off transactions where a high level of complexity transaction documents or contracts to evaluate and assess the impact of the transaction on the Group.
and or judgement is involved in determining the We made our own assessment as to the most appropriate accounting treatment for each individual significant accounting treatment resulting in an increased risk of management bias.
e. g. the redemption of ECNs and transaction, using this as a basis to challenge the key judgements made by management, including the assessment of any potential management bias.
the reclassification of gilts from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale.
We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in relation to significant transactions was appropriate.
Due to the nature of these transactions, the Based on the results of our audit work we concluded that the accounting treatment applied to significant accounting falls outside of the business as usual transactions entered into in the year is reasonable.
process level controls and requires manual calculations to be performed.
The design of the initial accounting treatment may form the basis for subsequent periods for long dated transactions.
We understood and tested key controls surrounding Group IT's central process for the periodic recertification Privileged access to IT systems of user access entitlements across in-scope systems as well as reviewed the processes for managing privileged The Groups financial reporting processes are access to IT systems.
heavily reliant on automated processes and controls performed by IT systems.
As part of the audit, we We have observed significant progress in terms of remediating the control matters, however several of the validate the design and operating effectiveness of controls did not operate effectively for the full financial reporting period.
in-scope automated and IT dependent controls at Where these control matters affected applications and supporting IT systems within the scope of our audit, a point in time as well as review the supporting IT weperformed a combination of additional controls testing, including compensating controls where relevant General Computer Controls ITGCs that provide andsubstantive audit procedures.
assurance over the continued integrity of these controls for the full financial reporting period.
On the basis of our additional audit testing we were able to place reliance on the data and reports from in-scope applications.
In our 2015 audit, we identified control matters in relation to the management of IT privileged access to IT systems and therefore relied on compensating controls and performed additional procedures.
While there is an ongoing programme of activities to address such control matters, their exercise during 2016 meant there was an increased risk that the data and reports from the affected systems were not reliable.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 82, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
In drawing this conclusion the directors have considered: the regulatory capital position of the Group which is critical to the market maintaining confidence in the Groups ability to absorb losses that it may incur in a market stress: and the funding and liquidity position of the Group to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including in a market stress.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In drawing our conclusion, we critically assessed the going concern assessment undertaken by management and approved by the Board or directors.
As part of our assessment we have: assessed and challenged the appropriateness of the stress scenarios used and their impact on the Groups and parent company's capital and liquidity positions: understood and challenged key economic and other assumptions used in both the capital and liquidity plan and the Groups operating plan: and substantiated the Groups and parent company's unencumbered collateral position and potential to access central bank liquidity facilities.
176 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 83, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report arising from Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 72, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report arising from describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 83 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to add or draw the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or draw managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 82 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add or draw the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
177 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors' responsibilities set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 ofPart16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Mark Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 February 2017 a The maintenance and integrity of the Lloyds Banking Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
