Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Man Group plc We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or In our opinion: draw attention to in relation to: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the directors confirmation on page 36 that they have carried out a of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss and the Parent those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Companys profit for the year then ended: solvency or liquidity: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the disclosures on pages 3839 that describe those risks and explain in accordance with International Financial Reporting how they are being managed or mitigated: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about the Parent Company financial statements have been properly whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over Disclosure Framework: and aperiod of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance financial statements: with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and IASRegulation.
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will The financial statements comprise: be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Group income statement: over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures the Group statement of comprehensive income: drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the Group and Parent Company Balance sheets: the Group cash flow statement: We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw the Group and Parent Company Statement of changes in equity: and attention to in respect of these matters.
the related Notes 1 to 31 for the Group and 1 to 7 for the ParentCompany.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework asto the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Independence United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal those standards.
risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and the those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
within the strategic report on page 37.
Summary of our audit approach Key Risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of GLG and FRM goodwill Valuation of Numeric contingent consideration Revenue recognition internally calculated fees and consistency with governing documents Revenue rebates and distribution costs accruals Consolidation of the Groups investments in fund products Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $15m which was determined on the basis of 5% of a two-year average of the adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality for the significant components ranged from $7.3m to $14.6m.
Scoping We performed a full scope audit on sixteen subsidiaries across seven geographic locations.
We performed audits of specified account balances within a further twelve subsidiaries.
Together, this accounts for 98% of the Groups revenue and 93% of the Groups loss before tax on an absolute basis.
94 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Last year our audit report included a risk in relation to the key assumptions used to calculate the value in use of the four cash generating units CGUs identified by Man Group, which are consistent with the assumptions underpinning the valuation of the contingent consideration for the respective acquisitions.
We have further defined this in the current year to separately identify where we consider the key risks to be within the goodwill andcontingent consideration payable balances.
As a result of the current year performance and flows, and the resulting impairment indicators identified inGLG and FRM, we have focussed our attention on these two CGUs in assessing the valuation of the goodwill recognised by Man Group.
The valuation ofthe Numeric contingent consideration payable also relies on these assumptions and has thus been included as a separate risk this year.
Because of thevalue of headroom within the Numeric CGU refer to Note 11 for further details, fluctuations in these assumptions are not likely to result in a material impairment in the valuation of the associated goodwill balance, but will have a direct impact on the value of the contingent consideration recognised on the balance sheet, and adjustments to the valuation have a direct impact on the statutory profit or loss of the Group.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on pages 5859.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Impairment of GLG and FRM Goodwill For the purposes of performing an impairment review, Man Group has We performed detailed walkthroughs of the goodwill impairment identified four CGUs: AHL, GLG, FRM and Numeric, which represent processes and assessed the design and implementation of key the four investment managers of Man Group.
As at 31 December 2016, controls identified during this process.
total goodwill on the balance sheet amounted to $588m 2015: $907m, which equates to 20% 2015: 27% of total assets.
Prior to impairment, We worked with our valuation specialists to challenge the key goodwill of $222m related to GLG and $97m to FRM.
assumptions used in the goodwill model with a focus on the GLG and FRM cash flow forecasts and growth rates inherent in the model.
Man Groups assessment of whether there is an impairment of goodwill is a judgemental process.
This requires assumptions concerning future Specifically, we considered the accuracy of the cash flow forecasts cash flows and growth rates based upon Man Groups view of future based on our understanding of the future prospects of the business by business prospects and investment performance.
challenging the GLG and FRM cash flow forecasts and growth rates prior to them being approved by the Board.
Our challenge included: The current and previous years performance of the GLG and FRM cash performing a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous GLG generating units CGUs has resulted in a reduction in the calculated and FRM forecasts: value in use of these CGUs as at 31 December 2016.
This has caused comparing GLG and FRM forecasts to recent industry flows and impairments to the value of $281m and $98m respectively.
As a result performance: and of the eliminated headroom within these CGUs, small fluctuations in holding a series of discussions with key management across each the above estimated future cash flows and growth rates can result in of the CGUs and the Group who are outside of the finance function, material variances in the value of the impairment recorded.
Man Group as well as the Board of Man Group.
believes that the headroom within AHL and Numeric remains sufficiently adequate to cover any small fluctuations, as seen in the sensitivities We also performed an independent sensitivity analysis to determine included within Note 11. the impact of reasonably foreseeable changes to the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for the GLG and FRM CGUs, GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES $M to determine whether such changes would trigger further material impairments.
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 In addition, we recalculated managements reconciliation of the total valuation of the CGUs to the market value of Man Group based upon 546 the share price at year end.
GLG 265 Further, we discussed the basis of the cost reallocation with management and performed an independent analysis of the impact 127 FRM of the revised methodology on the CGUs to assess whether it 29 wasappropriate.
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Carrying value before impairment Value in use In addition, the directors have reassessed the methodology applied indetermining shared cost allocations within the model to the different CGUs to better reflect the cost base of each CGU under various performance scenarios.
The cost allocations are necessarily subjective and accordingly this creates audit risk.
As referenced in Note 1 to the financial statements, Man Group have determined that thevaluation of goodwill is a key judgement area.
See Note 11 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation to the Goodwillbalance.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 95 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of Numeric contingent consideration The contingent consideration payable to the former owners of We performed detailed walkthroughs of the contingent consideration Numeric of $150m 2015: $164m is stated at fair value and is thus processes and assessed the design and implementation of key dependent on the estimated future cash flows as determined by controls identified during this process.
The assumptions include the expected performance and growth of the Numeric business, and the discount rate used to obtain We worked with our valuation specialists to challenge Man Groups the present value.
Given the level of judgement involved in deriving assumptions relating to Numerics valuation, growth and performance, these assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value, the valuation as well as the discount rates used to calculate the fair value of the ofthe contingent consideration is deemed to be a significant risk.
Our challenge included: performing a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous As referenced in Note 1 to the financial statements, Man Group have Numeric forecasts: determined that the fair value of contingent consideration is a key comparison of Numerics key assumptions to those applied judgement area.
See Note 26 to the financial statements which gives bypeers: further details in relation to the assumptions applied by Man Group discussions with key management within Numeric outside of the and the valuation of the contingent consideration.
finance function as well as the Board of Man Group: and performing an independent sensitivity analysis over key assumptions to determine the impact of reasonably foreseeable changes to these on the valuation of the Numeric contingent consideration.
Revenue recognition internally calculated fees and consistency with governing documents The accuracy and completeness of all management and performance We performed detailed walkthroughs of the revenue processes and fees depend on the effective communication of any new and or assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating amended governing documents between several parties, both internally effectiveness of key controls identified during this process.
within Man Group and externally with various service providers.
There is a risk that these communications are ineffective resulting in inaccurate We inspected a sample of the underlying legal documents used by or incomplete recognition of revenue as a result of fees not being Man Group to determine whether they were the most up-to-date charged in accordance with new or amended governing documents.
documents for the applicable time period and that any amendments were accounted for in a timely manner.
Furthermore, there is increased risk on management and performance fees where the Man Group is the single calculation agent for fees We tested a sample of new fee arrangements during the period for charged.
These calculations are submitted to clients for review and compliance with the governing documents.
payment, however these calculations do not benefit from the additional control environment within an independent service provider.
These For revenue transactions where Man Group is the single calculation calculations often use bespoke methods that have been agreed agent, we have independently assessed a sample of fees based on with single investors that are inherently more complex and thus have underlying legal documents and independent valuation reports, and increased risk of misstatement.
Revenue where the Man Group is the compared this to the fee recorded.
single calculation agent represents approximately 10% of Man Groups total revenue.
Man Groups revenue recognition policy is included within Note 3 to the financial statements.
Revenue rebates and distribution cost accruals Revenue is recorded net of rebates payable to investors, whilst fees We performed detailed walkthroughs of the rebate and distribution paid to intermediaries for distribution services are recorded within costs processes and assessed the design and implementation and distribution costs.
tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls identified within the new control environment.
Man Group has relationships with more than 1,000 investors and intermediaries.
The initiation of rebate and distribution cost For a sample of investors, intermediaries and new funds under agreements and the reflection of the resulting transactions in the management, we have determined whether an accrual should financial statements requires effective communication between be recognised at year end based on agreements to assess the several parties which increases the risk of incomplete recording of completeness of the year end accruals.
We have assessed a sample of accrued rebates and distribution costs Additionally, it can take a long period of time to finalise negotiations.
written back during the period to determine whether the judgement As a result, there is an increased risk that the accruals recorded are applied in determining the value of the accruals was appropriate.
We have assessed the year end listing of aged rebate and distribution 2016 was also the first full year that Man Groups new system for cost accruals to assess whether these remain appropriate.
automating much of this process has been operating, resulting in changes to the control environment.
Further explanation on rebates and distribution costs are included within Note 3 and Note 4 to the financial statements respectively.
96 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Consolidation of Man Groups investments in fund products Man Group holds investments in a number of funds which it manages, We performed a walkthrough of the processes by which Man Group as described in Note 14.
The accounting for the investments controls these investment decisions and how these investments are requires judgement in determining whether control exists and subsequently monitored for consolidation triggers and classified.
We hence whether investments are held on the balance sheet at fair also assessed the design and implementation of the key controls in value or are consolidated, as required by IFRS 10 Consolidated operation during the year.
IFRS 10 sets out the following three elementsof control: We independently assessed whether a sample of funds held at year end power over the investee: should be consolidated.
This involved making selections from the total exposure, or rights, to variable returns from involvement with the listing of investments owned by Man Group and assessing whether the investee: and selected funds were deemed to be controlled under the requirements of the ability to use power over the investee to affect the amount of IFRS 10 with reference to the percentage ownership and the investment the investors return.
management agreement: and if so, whether the investment met the required criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and As a result of this assessment: discontinued operations, particularly in regards to the length of time $285m in net assets have been consolidated on a line by line basis that the investment had been controlled by Man Group.
Our samples within Man Groups balance sheet 2015: $213m : included 100% of the funds included in the listing maintained by $131m are classified as net non-current assets held for sale 2015: management of those funds considered to require further assessment $119m : and todetermine whether consolidation is required.
$304m are classified as investments in fund products and other investments 2015: $269m.
We assessed each fund selected by considering the proportion of the holding per custodian statements as well as the contractual arrangements.
In particular we focussed on investments in collateralised FUND PRODUCTS $M loan obligations CLOs where control is not necessarily dictated by percentage ownership of equity shares.
Consolidated 285 Held for sale 131 Investments in fund products 304 As referenced in Note 1 to the financial statements, Man Group have determined that the assessment of whether the Man Group controls certain funds through its investments in fund products is a key judgement area.
See Note 14 to the financial statements which gives further detail in relation to Man Groups investments in fund products.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $15m 2015: $22.0m.
Basis for determining materiality 5% of the two-year average adjusted profit before tax PBT.
Rationale for the benchmark applied The adjusted profit before tax number is explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, and is a relevant benchmark as it is a key figure used by analysts in assessing the performance of the business.
We have determined that a profit-based benchmark is most appropriate for listed investment management companies and this is consistent with benchmarks used by Mans peers.
Performance fees are variable and can fluctuate significantly year on year.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, performance fees of $81m have been recorded in comparison to $302m in 2015.
As a result, we have taken an average of the current year and prior year adjusted profit before tax $205m and $400m respectively in order to create a more stable basis.
Our materiality is below 1% of the total equity of Man Group.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 97 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc continued We also set performance materiality for Man Group at $10.5m 2015: LOSS BEFORE TAX % $15.4m.
We use performance materiality to determine the extent of our testing.
It is lower than planning materiality to reflect our assessment of the risk of errors remaining undetected by our sample testing or Full scope audit 81 uncorrected in the financial statements.
Speci ed prodcedures 12 Analytic review 7 93% We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report totheCommittee all audit differences in excess of $750,000 2015: $440,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This threshold has increased as a result of the assessment of errors that have been identified historically and their impact on the financial statements which are rounded to millions.
REVENUE % We also reported to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
Full scope audit 90 An overview of the scope of our audit Speci ed procedures 8 We perform our global scoping assessment on an individual entity by Analytic review 2 98% entitybasis to determine the significant components or balances which may be subject to testing.
In doing so, we perform both a quantitative andqualitative assessment of all entities within the consolidated Group.
Our quantitative assessment is primarily based on each entitys PBT and revenue, however a further assessment is performed to determine whether sufficient coverage has been obtained.
Our qualitative assessment is TOTAL ASSETS % based on our understanding of the entities obtained from prior years and current years events and any significant risks associated with each entity.
Specific to our considerations is managements strategy for the Group and we continue to re-assess where we focus our efforts as the business Full scope audit 72 continues to evolve.
Speci ed prodcedures 23 Analytic review 5 95% Based on that assessment, which is consistent with the prior year, wefocused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven geographical locations.
This included the full audit of sixteen subsidiaries across the UK, the US, Switzerland, Australia, Ireland, the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.
A further twelve subsidiaries across the UK and the US were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the These seven geographical locations represent the principal business extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material units and account for 95% 2015: 96% of Man Groups total assets, 98% misstatement and of the materiality of Man Groups operations at 2015: 99% of Man Groups revenue and 93% 2015: 98% of the Groups thoselocations.
All other subsidiaries were subject to analytical loss before tax on an absolute basis.
They were also selected toprovide reviewprocedures.
an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address therisks of material misstatement identified above.
There has been no change in our assessment of the principle business units from the prior year.
Our audit work at the twenty eight subsidiaries was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $7.3 to $14.6m.
There has been no changesin our approach to the testing at the Parent Company level.
Having now performed the audit of Man Group for three years, the Group audit team has developed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope is focused at least once every two years.
During the current year visits were made to New York, Boston and Japan.
Regular communications were also maintained with the Switzerland and Australian offices.
Books and records for subsidiaries located within Ireland, the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands are maintained within the UK and are audited by the Group auditteam.
98 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses and those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report which we consider should have been disclosed.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in or misleading statements.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, anditsenvironment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not thedirectors are responsible for the preparation of the financial identifiedany material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the statementsandfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing Matters on which we are required to report by exception UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
inouropinion: Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional we have not received all the information and explanations we require standards review team and independent partner reviews.
for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our from branches not visited by us: or audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the accounting records and returns.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our Scope of the audit of the financial statements opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
thefinancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Corporate Governance Statement adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with theaudited financial statements and to identify any information that is We have nothing to report arising from our review.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, theknowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we we consider the implications for our report.
arerequired to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annualreportis: Mark FitzPatrick Senior statutory auditor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent London, UK with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 1 March 2017 performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 99
