78 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC IN OUR OPINION: The parent Company financial The financial statements comprise the statements have been properly prepared Consolidated Income Statement, the The financial statements give a true and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive fair view of the state of the Groups and the European Union and as applied in Income, the Consolidated and Company of the parent Companys aff airs as at accordance with the provisions of the Statements of Financial Position, the 2 April 2016 and of the Groups pro t Companies Act 2006.
Consolidated and Company Statements for the 53 weeks then ended.
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated The financial statements have been The Group financial statements have and Company statements of cash ows, prepared in accordance with the been properly prepared in accordance the reconciliation of net cash ow to requirements of the Companies Act with International Financial Reporting movement in net debt note, and the related 2006 and, as regards the Group Standards IFRSs as adopted by the notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting financial statements, Article 4 of the European Union.
framework that has been applied in their IAS Regulation.
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRSs AS ISSUED BY THE IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial In our opinion the Group financial statements, in addition to complying statements comply with IFRSs as issued with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs by the IASB.
as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have The disclosures on pages 27-29 that statement as to whether they have describe those risks and explain how reviewed the directors statement regarding a reasonable expectation that the the appropriateness of the going concern they are being managed or mitigated: Group will be able to continue in basis of accounting contained within note operation and meet its liabilities as The directors statement in note 1 to the 1 to the financial statements and the they fall due over the period of their financial statements about whether they directors statement on the longer-term assessment, including any related considered it appropriate to adopt the viability of the company contained within disclosures drawing attention to any going concern basis of accounting in contained within the Other disclosures necessary quali cations or assumptions.
preparing them and their identi cation of section on page 77. any material uncertainties to the Groups We agreed with the directors adoption We have nothing material to add or draw ability to continue to do so over a period of the going concern basis of accounting attention to in relation to: of at least twelve months from the date and we did not identify any such material of approval of the financial statements: uncertainties.
However, because not The directors con rmation on page all future events or conditions can be 27 that they have carried out a robust The directors explanation on page 47 as predicted, this statement is not a guarantee assessment of the principal risks facing to how they have assessed the prospects as to the Groups ability to continue as the Group, including those that would of the Group, over what period they have a going concern.
threaten its business model, future done so and why they consider that performance, solvency or liquidity: period to be appropriate, and their INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the responsibilities in accordance with those Financial Reporting Councils Ethical standards.
We also con rm we have not Standards for Auditors and we con rm provided any of the prohibited non-audit that we are independent of the Group and services referred to in those standards.
we have ful lled our other ethical 79 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT THE KEY RISKS WE IDENTIFIED ARE: The assessed risks of material Franchise revenues and receivables misstatement are those that had the within our revenue recognition risk, 1 Presentation of non-GAAP measures greatest eff ect on our audit strategy, which we have not included in our 2 Impairment of property, plant and the allocation of resources in the audit current year report based on our equipment, and intangible assets and directing the eff orts of the knowledge of the franchise agreement engagement team.
terms and an assessment of the risk of 3 Inventory valuation and provisions franchise partners defaulting on debt.
In our previous years report, our audit 4 Revenue recognition report included: The description of risks below should be customer returns read in conjunction with the signi cant Impairment of store assets: however 5 Supplier rebates issues considered by the Audit Committee in the current year audit our risk of discussed on pages 44 and 45.
6 Retirement bene ts impairment includes all property, plant and equipment PP&E and intangible These matters were addressed in the assets as a result of the factors context of our audit of the financial impacting performance in certain statements as a whole, and in forming our parts of the Group: and opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES 1 RISK DESCRIPTION m The presentation of income and costs within non-GAAP measures to derive 800 10m 2m 5 m 9 m 24m 690m 27m underlying pro t before tax under IFRS 50m 102m is judgemental, with IFRS only requiring 600 489m the separate presentation of material items.
Judgement is exercised by 400 management in determining the classi cation of items as non-underlying.
200 In the Groups reported results, signi cant adjustments have been made to statutory pro t before tax of 489 million to derive 0 Statutory International M&S UK UK Loss IAS39 Net gain Net Underlying profit Bank store impairments on fair value on restructuring profit underlying pro t before tax of 690 before tax review property loss acquisition costs before tax disposals million.
Explanations of each adjustment are set out in notes 1 and 5 to the In calculating the reported non-GAAP measures, there are two risks which may result financial statements, and summarised in the underlying pro t measure being misstated and therefore not being reliable to in the graphic on the right.
users of the financial statements: Items may be included in the nonItems may be omitted from the underlying adjustments which are non-underlying adjustments which underlying or recurring items, distorting are material and one-off in nature.
the reported underlying earnings: and HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We evaluated the appropriateness of the We assessed all items, either highlighted Key observations We are satis ed that the inclusion of items, both individually and by management or identi ed through items excluded from underlying earnings in aggregate, within non-underlying pro ts, the course of our audit, which were and the related disclosure of these items including assessing the consistency of regarded as one-off but included within in the financial statements is appropriate.
items included year on year and ensuring underlying earnings to ensure that these adherence to IFRS requirements and are not material either individually or in latest Financial Reporting Council FRC aggregate.
For all adjustments recorded in guidance.
We also agreed these items calculating underlying pro ts, we to supporting evidence.
discussed the appropriateness of the item with the Audit Committee and any disclosure considerations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 80 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED Impairment of property, plant and equipment PP&E 2 and intangible assets RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies Trading margin: and The outlet stores are considered to in note 1 and in notes 14 and 15 to the represent one CGU in aggregate and Store costs, including rent, staff payroll Financial Statements, the Group held strategic stores are evaluated as part costs and general operating costs.
5,027 million 2015: 5,031 million of of a country-wide impairment review.
property, plant and equipment and The directors consider that each retail The Groups accounting policy sets out 803 million 2015: 858 million of store constitutes its own cash generating a relevant shelter period for new stores intangible assets at 2 April 2016. unit CGU, with the exception of the to be taken into account when assessing outlet stores, which are used to clear old There is a risk that the carrying value indicators of impairment during initial season general merchandise stock at of these assets may be higher than the years of trading to enable the store to a discount, and certain strategic stores.
recoverable amount, particularly in light establish itself in the market.
of recent trading performance in certain Current parts of the Group.
Management has year performed an assessment of indicators of Impairment Closing Intangibles m value m impairment for PP&E and a full impairment Non-current asset analysis m Goodwill & Brand review for goodwill and brand intangibles.
per una 88m As a result, an impairment charge of 160 334 803 851 Goodwill Czech 16m million has been recorded.
Goodwill India 7m When a review for impairment is Goodwill Hungary 3m conducted, the recoverable amount Goodwill UK 6m is determined based on value in use calculations which rely on the directors Brands M&S Mode and other 32m assumptions and estimates of future 5,027 trading performance.
Computer software 49m 702m Total intangibles 100m 803m The key assumptions applied by the Intangible assets PP&E directors in the impairment reviews are: PP&E Land and buildings 30m 2,595m Retirement benefit asset Country-speci c discount rates: Other assets Fixtures, tting & Future revenue growth: equipment 28m 2,363m PP&E under construction 2m 69m Total PP&E 60m 5,027m HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We considered the appropriateness of Comparing forecast growth rates the trading plans and actions being taken the methodology applied by the directors to economic data: and on an individual store basis.
in calculating the impairment charges, and Evaluating the information included Key observations We assessed the the judgements applied in determining in the impairment models through level of impairment recorded in respect the CGUs of the business.
In addition, we our knowledge of the business gained of the international business and are assessed the design and implementation through reviewing trading plans, satis ed that the judgements applied of controls in respect of the impairment strategic initiatives, and meeting by management are appropriate.
We review process and considered the with senior trading managers from speci cally assessed the impairment adequacy of disclosures made in the key categories and our retail calculations of international goodwill and Financial Statements.
brand intangibles and concluded that the We assessed the impairment models level of impairments recorded in the year We assessed the appropriateness of the and calculations by: are appropriate.
shelter period for each store opened within Checking the mechanical accuracy that time frame, and compared the original For the UK store assets, we concluded that of the impairment models: investment case for the store against its the assumptions applied in the impairment current trading performance.
Where stores calculations were appropriate, including Assessing the discount rates applied were trading signi cantly below the the assumptions applied to new store to the impairment reviews for each original case, we considered the evidence shelter periods, and no additional country with support from our internal available to support future improvements impairments were identi ed from the valuations specialist and comparing the in performance, speci cally by assessing work performed above.
rates to our internal benchmark data: 81 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED Inventory valuation and provisions 3 RISK DESCRIPTION At 2 April 2016, the Group held inventories cost and net realisable value.
As a result, realisable value below cost based upon of 800 million 2015: 798 million.
the directors apply judgement in plans for inventory to go into sale and As described in the Accounting Policies determining the appropriate provisions stock loss based upon the run rate from in note 1 to the Financial Statements, for obsolete stock based upon a detailed recent inventory counts.
inventories are carried at the lower of analysis of old season inventory, net HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We obtained assurance over the Comparing the net realisable value, We evaluated consumer trends identi ed appropriateness of managements obtained through a detailed review of through benchmarking and external assumptions applied in calculating the sales subsequent to the year-end using market data to challenge the assumptions value of the inventory provisions by: audit analytics, to the cost price of underlying sales forecasts by category inventories to check for completeness to assess the completeness of provisions Checking the eff ectiveness of key of the associated provision: for obsolescence.
inventory controls operating across the UK business, including those at 13 Performing audit analytics on Key observations The results of distribution centres and 18 retail stores: stock holding and movement data to our testing were satisfactory and identify product lines with indicators we concur that the level of inventory Attending inventory counts at 13 of low stock turn or signi cant levels provisions is appropriate.
distribution centres and 13 retail stores: of aged stock: and Checking for a sample of individual Meeting with buyers to validate the products that invoiced costs have assumptions applied by management been correctly recorded and that the compared to the current purchasing allocation of directly attributable costs strategy and ranging plans.
has been correctly calculated: Revenue recognition gift cards, loyalty schemes and returns 4 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies expected redemption rate to the total determining the provision required in note 1 to the Financial Statements, the value of gift cards, vouchers and loyalty for returns based on actual sales data Groups revenue recognition policies points in issue based on historic trends.
and recent product return rates.
require the directors to make a number Returns from online sales are Returns customers are entitled to of assumptions in determining the commonly at a higher level than return products up to 35 days after reported revenue for the period.
The key traditional store retailing, resulting purchase, giving rise to a risk that sales assumptions are: in this judgement becoming more recognised during the period will be signi cant in determining the level Gift cards, vouchers and loyalty reversed in the next financial period.
schemes the directors apply an The directors apply judgement in HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We considered each revenue-impacting For the key assumptions used in the gift returns recorded subsequent to the provision individually, and assessed the card and voucher, and loyalty scheme period end.
appropriateness of the assumptions and provisions, we assessed the historic rates Key observations We are satis ed that the judgements applied.
We assessed the of redemption and compared these to the key assumptions applied in calculating the design and implementation of controls in directors judgements.
returns, gift card, voucher and loyalty respect of these revenue judgements, in We assessed the appropriateness of the scheme provisions are appropriate.
addition to testing the eff ectiveness of methodology applied in calculating the key revenue controls operating across the returns provision, and compared the UK business.
calculated provision to the actual level of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 82 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED Supplier rebates 5 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies in volume-based rebates.
The majority of Judgement is required in determining the note 1 and note 17 to the Financial these contributions tend to be small in unit period over which the reduction in cost of Statements, the Group recognises a value but high in volume and span relatively sales should be recognised, requiring both reduction in cost of sales as a result of short periods of time, although these can a detailed understanding of the contractual amounts receivable from suppliers, be across the financial year end.
There are arrangements themselves as well as primarily comprising contributions in a small number of larger arrangements, complete and accurate source data to relation to promotions in the Food business, which relate to multi-year periods.
strategic volume moves and some annual HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We tested that amounts recognised were evidence, including volume data and supplier income at 2 April 2016.
In addition accurate and recorded in the correct period promotion dates.
we tested the recoverability of the amounts based on the contractual performance due at the year end by agreeing the We performed revenue and margin analysis obligations by agreeing a sample to amounts to subsequent settlement.
to understand detailed trends by product individual supplier agreements.
We also category in order to identify apparent Key observations The results of our conducted interviews with a range of anomalies which may indicate potential testing were satisfactory.
We consider the buyers and trading managers.
In addition, rebate income errors.
Such anomalies were disclosure given around supplier rebates to we circularised a sample of 28 suppliers to investigated to assess whether they were provide an accurate understanding of the test whether the arrangements recorded indicative of a mis-application of contractual types of rebate income received and the were complete.
terms or other calculation errors.
impact on the statement of financial We tested the completeness and accuracy position as at 2 April 2016.
We also tested a sample of invoices and of the systematic inputs to the calculations debit notes raised post-year end to test the for recording supplier rebates and completeness and accuracy of accrued discounts by agreement to supporting Retirement bene ts 6 RISK DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies scheme assets of 8,515 million 2015: assumptions can lead to a material in note 1 and in note 11 to the Financial 8,597 million, scheme liabilities of 7,682 movement in the net surplus.
The increase Statements the Group has a fide ned million 2015: 8,136 million and unfunded decrease in scheme surplus caused by bene t pension plan for its UK employees, retirement bene ts of 9 million 2015: 12 a change in each of the key assumptions is which was closed to new entrants with million.
The Group net retirement bene t set out below: eff ect from 1 April 2002, and a funded asset has shown signi cant volatility, as the 2016 2015 m m fide ned bene t pension scheme in the valuation is sensitive to changes in key Republic of Ireland, where no new bene ts assumptions such as the discount rate, A decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% 90 70 have accrued since 31 October 2013. in ation and mortality estimates.
A decrease in the in ation At 2 April 2016, the Group recorded a net The setting of these assumptions is rate of 0.25% 20 30 retirement bene t asset of 824 million complex and an area of signi cant A decrease in the average life 2015: 449 million, being the net of judgement: changes in any of these expectancy of one year 300 330 HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISK We evaluated the directors assessment of with support from our own actuarial In ation rates: the assumptions made in the valuation of specialists, we considered the process Mortality rates: and the scheme liabilities, and evaluated the applied by the Groups actuaries, the scope information contained within the actuarial of the valuation performed and the key Discount rates.
valuation reports for each scheme.
We assumptions applied and evaluated their Key observations From the work assessed the design and implementation expertise.
We benchmarked and performed performed above we are satis ed that of controls in respect of the pension a sensitivity analysis on the key variables in all assumptions applied in respect of the scheme valuation process.
the valuation model, including: valuation of the scheme assets and We tested the membership census data Salary increases: liabilities are appropriate.
used in the valuation of the schemes and, 83 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We determined materiality for the Store closure costs and impairments The materiality applied by the component Group to be 30 million.
in the international business auditors see below ranged from 32 million charge: 2 million to 27 million 2015: 2 million We reported all audit diff erences to 30 million, depending on the scale in excess of 1 million.
Impairment of goodwill in of the components operations and the international business We fide ne materiality as the magnitude of our assessment of risks speci c to 19 million charge: misstatement in the financial statements each location.
that makes it probable that the economic Other international impairments We agreed with the Audit Committee decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 52 million: and that we would report to the Committee person would be changed or in uenced.
Net gain on acquisition of joint all audit diff erences in excess of 1 million We use materiality both in planning the venture holding Bradford warehouse 2015: 1 million as well as diff erences scope of our audit work and in evaluating of 5 million.
below that threshold that, in our view, the results of our work.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our materiality of 30 million represented We determined materiality for the Group We also report to the Audit Committee on 6% of statutory pro t before tax.
For the to be 30 million, based on a calculation disclosure matters that we identi ed when previous year, we determined materiality of 5% of pro t before tax adjusted for assessing the overall presentation of the for the Group to be 32 million based on certain non-underlying items due to the financial statements.
5% of pro t before tax without adjustment nature and signi cance of these nonfor non-underlying items.
Materiality The adjusted pro t used in our determination of materiality was 587 million, which is 98 million higher than Group materiality statutory pro t before tax of 489 million.
30m The items we excluded from our calculation Component are listed below, and explained further materiality range in note 5 to the financial statements: 2m to 27m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m PBT Group materiality FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 84 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT We performed a full scope audit on These components were selected to million.
The Group audit team performs seven components representing 99% provide an appropriate basis for the audit of the UK business without the of the Groups revenue, 90% of the undertaking audit work to address the involvement of a component team.
Groups pro t before tax and 90% of risks of material misstatement identi ed During the course of our audit, the Group the Groups net assets.
All other wholly owned and joint audit team conducted 13 distribution venture businesses were subject to centre and 18 retail store visits in the UK During our first year as auditor of analytical review procedures.
Whilst we to understand the current trading the Group, we visited all signi cant audit the revenues received by the Group performance and, at certain locations, locations.
For our second year, we have from franchise operations, which account perform tests of internal controls and implemented a rotational approach to for 3% 2015: 3% of the Groups revenue, validate levels of inventory held.
we do not audit the underlying franchise As part of our first year audit, last year a Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining operations as part of our Group audit.
senior member of the Group audit team an understanding of the Group and its At the parent entity level we also tested visited each of the signi cant components.
environment, including Group-wide the consolidation process and carried For this year, and going forwards, we have controls, and assessing the risks of out analytical procedures to con rm our developed a programme of planned visits material misstatement at the Group level.
conclusion that there were no signi cant so that a senior member of the Group audit A summary of the Groups retail operations risks of material misstatement of the team visits each of the components subject is set out below including the UK business.
aggregated financial information of the to a full audit or speci c audit procedures remaining components not subject to a at least once every two years, and the most No.
signi cant of them at least once a year.
Wholly owned retail businesses 17 20 The programme of visits are set out below, Retail joint ventures 2 2 with future years subject to change as the Retail franchise operations 33 34 Groups operations continue to evolve.
Website only territories 7 4 2015 2016 Total 59 60 NET ASSETS REVENUE PROFIT Last This BEFORE TAX includes two territories where wholly owned businesses Component year year 2017 2018 also operate Full scope Specic audit Analytical China audit procedures procedures Based on our assessment we focused Hong Kong our Group audit scope primarily on the Pro t audit work at seven wholly owned locations: India before Net United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Republic of Revenue tax assets Ireland Czech Republic, France, Greece, China and Full scope audit 99% 90% 90% Hong Kong, and the joint venture in India.
Czech Speci c audit All of these were subject to a full audit, Republic procedures 0% 1% 2% with the exception of China where speci c Greece Analytical procedures 1% 9% 8% audit procedures were performed on In addition to our programme of planned signi cant balances.
Last year, a full scope The most signi cant component of the visits, we send detailed instructions to our Group is its retail business in the United audit was performed in Turkey: however component audit teams, include them in Kingdom, which accounts for 90% 2015: analytical review procedures were our team brie ngs, discuss their risk 89% of the Groups reported revenue of completed for the current year as Turkey assessment, attend closing meetings, is not a signi cant element of the Groups 10,555 million, and generates operating and review their audit working papers.
pro t of 627 million 2015: 641 million business.
This year, the Group audit team which is off set by operating losses from the conducted a full scope audit in France international segment resulting in a Group due to the increasing signi cance of the business in the Groups reported results.
operating pro t of 584 million 2015: 701 OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 IN OUR OPINION: The part of the Directors Remuneration The information given in the Strategic Report to be audited has been properly Report and the Directors Report for the prepared in accordance with the financial year for which the financial Companies Act 2006: and statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
85 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received not been made or the part of the Directors Apparently materially incorrect based and accounting records Remuneration Report to be audited is not on, or materially inconsistent with, our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are in agreement with the accounting records knowledge of the Group acquired in the required to report to you if, in our opinion: and returns.
We have nothing to report course of performing our audit: or arising from these matters.
We have not received all the information Otherwise misleading.
and explanations we require for our Corporate Governance Statement In particular, we are required to audit: or Under the Listing Rules we are also required consider whether we have identi ed any to review part of the Corporate Governance Adequate accounting records have inconsistencies between our knowledge Statement relating to the companys not been kept by the parent company, acquired during the audit and the directors compliance with certain provisions of the or returns adequate for our audit have statement that they consider the annual UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have not been received from branches not report is fair, balanced and understandable nothing to report arising from our review.
visited by us: or and whether the annual report Our duty to read other information in appropriately discloses those matters that The parent company financial the Annual Report we communicated to the audit committee statements are not in agreement with Under International Standards on Auditing which we consider should have been the accounting records and returns.
UK and Ireland, we are required to report disclosed.
We con rm that we have not We have nothing to report in respect of to you if, in our opinion, information in the identi ed any such inconsistencies or these matters.
annual report is: misleading statements.
Directors remuneration Materially inconsistent with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also information in the audited financial required to report if in our opinion certain statements: or disclosures of directors remuneration have RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors UK and Ireland.
Our audit work has been undertaken Responsibilities Statement, the directors and tools aim to ensure that our quality so that we might state to the companys are responsible for the preparation of the control procedures are eff ective, members those matters we are required to financial statements and for being satis ed understood and applied.
Our quality state to them in an auditors report and for that they give a true and fair view.
Our controls and systems include our dedicated no other purpose.
To the fullest extent responsibility is to audit and express an professional standards review team and permitted by law, we do not accept or opinion on the financial statements in independent partner reviews.
assume responsibility to anyone other than accordance with applicable law and the company and the companys members This report is made solely to the companys International Standards on Auditing as a body, for our audit work, for this report, members, as a body, in accordance with UK and Ireland.
We also comply with or for the opinions we have formed.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act International Standard on Quality Control 1 SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about been consistently applied and report to identify material inconsistencies adequately disclosed: with the audited financial statements the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suffi cient to give reasonable and to identify any information that is The reasonableness of signi cant assurance that the financial statements are apparently materially incorrect based on, accounting estimates made by the free from material misstatement, whether or materially inconsistent with, the directors: and knowledge acquired by us in the course caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: The overall presentation of the of performing the audit.
If we become financial statements.
aware of any apparent material Whether the accounting policies are misstatements or inconsistencies we appropriate to the Groups and the In addition, we read all the financial and consider the implications for our report.
companys circumstances and have nonfinancial information in the annual Ian Waller Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 May 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
