Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Marstons PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 October 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at 1 October 2016: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the period then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Theseare cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 4.9 million which represents 5% of profit before tax and non-underlying items Audit scope Audit performed at the level of the consolidated Group Areas of Valuation of the estate focus Disclosure of items as 'non-underlying' The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
69 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of the estate notes 1, 4, 12 and 15 We have reviewed the Directors annual assessment and examined We focus on the Directors annual assessment of the carrying their assumptions therein, utilising internal specialists to validate the value of land and buildings because properties are a significant conclusions reached.
We have taken into account the impact of any item on the balance sheet and there are complex and subjective changes in macroeconomic conditions, individual pub performance assumptions used in the valuations, including the future expected and recent market transactions and their associated multiples.
performance of pubs and multiples applied.
We found the assumptions adopted to be appropriate and consistent A full external valuation of the estate was undertaken during FY15.
with our knowledge of the business.
In FY16 management have undertaken an exercise to identify if there have been any impairment triggers or changes in market conditions including property based transactions both within the market place and the Marstons estate which would indicate changes in property valuation.
The absence of any such triggers or changes in market conditions supports the carrying value of the Groups property portfolio as at the balance sheet date.
Disclosure of items as non-underlying notes 1 and 4 We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy The financial statements include certain items which are and whether those items disclosed as non-underlying were consistent disclosed as non-underlying such as non-core estate disposal with the accounting policy and the approach taken in previous and reorganisation costs, the results arising from the ongoing accounting periods.
We found the Groups accounting policy to be management of the portfolio of pubs subject to disposal in FY14, appropriate and the classification of items to be consistent with the movements in the financial assumptions used in determining the accounting policy.
onerous lease provisions, relocation, reorganisation and integration We also considered an appropriate threshold to apply to noncosts, movements in the fair value of interest rate swaps, tax relief underlying items based on the financial statement line items that in respect of prior periods including associated costs and the profit were affected.
For example, certain property related items are on sale of surplus land for residential development.
Management considered by management to have a higher threshold for disclosure has included these items as non-underlying using the criteria as non-underlying.
We concluded that the thresholds adopted are explained in their accounting policy which is disclosed in note 1 to appropriate in the circumstances.
We assessed whether other non-recurring items should have been We focused on this area because non-underlying items are not classified as non-underlying and discussed this with the Directors and defined by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it therefore the Audit Committee.
We confirmed that all significant items meeting requires judgement by the Directors to identify such items.
the criteria in the Groups accounting policy had been identified and Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as non-underlying that the treatment was consistent year on year.
is important to maintain comparability of the current year results with previous periods.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the industry in which the Group operates, the geographic structure of the Group and the accounting processes and controls.
The Group is structured along four business lines being Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased and Brewing, supported by Group Services.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of subsidiaries and special purpose entities, principally comprising the Groups operating businesses, property companies, securitisation vehicles, holding companies and an insurance company.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we considered the consolidated trial balance for the Group as a whole and designed our audit testing for each financial statement line item based on the size and nature of the transactions and balances that are aggregated to form that line item and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
We used our professional judgement to determine the nature and extent of testing required over each line item in the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 4.9 million 2015: 4.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and non-underlying items.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax and non-underlying items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
The exclusion of items classified as non-underlying is consistent with previous years and practice within the sector.
70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million 2015: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 35 to 43 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or exceptions apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in toreport.
the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 66, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable exceptions and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business toreport.
model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 45 to 46, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describingthe work of We have no the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated byusto the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its material to add or business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that material to add or period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will to draw attention to.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
71 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Marstons PLC for the 52 week period ended 1 October 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 24 November 2016 72
