CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marshalls plc Opinion on Financial Statements ofMarshalls plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Cash Flow Statement: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Accounting Policies: and the related Notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: carrying value of inventory: and completeness of rebate expense.
These risks are the same as those identified in the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 2.3 million, which was determined on the basis of 5 per cent of pre-tax profits.
Scoping The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components, which accounted for 96 per cent of Group revenue, 98 per cent of Group net assets and 98 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Marshalls NV, the subsidiary based in Belgium, was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the supervision of the Group audit team.
Significant changes in There have been no significant changes in our audit approach since the previous year.
our approach 72 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Group Financial Statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement We confirm that we have nothing material to add or regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained draw attention to in respect of these matters.
within Note 1 to the Financial Statements and the Directors Statement on the We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report, on page 21. concern basis of accounting and we did not identify We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw any such material uncertainties.
However, because not attention to in relation to: all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability the Directors confirmation on page 21 that they have carried out a robust to continue as a going concern.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 20 to 24 that describe those risks and explain how theyare being managed or mitigated: the Directors Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from thedate ofapproval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation on page 21 as to how they have assessed the prospects ofthe Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether theyhave a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any  or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for We confirm that we are independent of the Group Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts ofthe engagement team.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Carrying value of inventory Risk description The Group is primarily involved in the manufacture and sale of landscape and natural stone products, selling toPublicSector and Commercial and Domestic end users.
The Group carries a large amount of inventory inordertomeet customer demand at any given point in time.
Inventory of 68.7 million at the year end 2015:65.3million is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and is net of relevant provisions.
TheGroup offers a wide range of non-perishable products that are manufactured and subsequently stored inlargequantities at various locations.
A risk exists that the sales prices of inventories, particularly those which are aged or in excess of specific customer requirements, may need to be discounted before they can be sold.
The risk of discounting, combined with potential costs to move inventory to a location of higher demand, may result in some items of inventory beingsoldat a price which is below cost.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding: the length of time required to sell inventories: the level of discounts necessary to sell inventories: whether inventories will need to be discounted below their cost price: and the appropriateness of standard costs and the level of provisioning applied.
The carrying value of the Groups finished goods inventory as disclosed in Note 12 is noted as an area considered by the Audit Committee in its report on page 68.
How the scope of our We have: audit responded to reviewed business processes surrounding the recording of inventory quantities and managements review the risk of the valuation and provisioning of inventory items: evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls relating topurchasing and inventory provisioning across the Group: attended inventory counts at key locations to observe the count procedure being undertaken and inspect thecondition of inventories: selected a sample of inventory items and agreed key inputs in the valuation such as materials costs, rebates, shipping costs, the overheads absorbed and expected sales prices to supporting documentation: tested the standard cost assessment and year-end adjustment to actual cost: and used data analytic techniques to compare sales and related transport costs by product line to inventory cost toidentify any inventory sold for less than its cost.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and no issues were identified which raised concerns over the basis ofvaluation of inventory and the level of inventory provisions.
74 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Completeness of rebate expense Risk description The Group enters into a number of commercial rebate agreements with its customers which have varying terms and as such a risk exists that rebate agreements with customers are not correctly or completely accounted for, potentially resulting in an overstatement of revenue and profit.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements relating to the level of year-end accruals to record for rebates due tocustomers.
This is further noted as a matter considered by the Audit Committee in its report on page 68.
How the scope of our We have: audit responded to reviewed business processes surrounding the recording of customer rebate expense and the calculation of the the risk year-end accrual: evaluated the design and implementation of key controls relating to the customer rebate expense cycle: reviewed a sample of customer rebate agreements and recalculated rebates due at the year end to assess whether accruals are calculated in line with contractual terms: performed testing of rebate cut-off to assess whether customer rebate expenses are recognised in the appropriate period: performed procedures to consider the accuracy of past rebate accrual estimates by comparing the brought forward rebate accrual to cash payments during the year: and reviewed post year-end customer transactions to consider the completeness of the closing accruals.
Key observations We concluded that the overall levels of year end rebate accruals and the rebate expense recognised by management were reasonable.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwe do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andinevaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 2.3 million 2015: 1.8 million Basis for determining We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.3 million 2015: 1.8 million, which is 5per cent of pre-tax profit materiality 2015: 5 per cent of pre-tax profit and below 1.5 per cent of equity.
Rationale for the In our professional judgement, profit before tax is a principal benchmark within the Financial Statements that benchmark applied isrelevant to users of the Financial Statements.
Following a reassessment of the levels at which we would report to the Audit Committee, we discussed and agreed with the Audit Committee that all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2015: 35,000 would be reported as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement both at the Group and component level.
There have been no significant changes to the scope of our audit since the previous year.
The Group and Parent Company audits are performed at the Groups head office in Elland, West Yorkshire.
All subsidiaries of the Group except Marshalls NV, based in Belgium, are both accounted for and have their operations directed from the Groups head office.
TheGroup audit team performed the audit of all UK components, which accounted for 96 per cent of Group revenue, 98 per cent of Group net assets and 98 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Marshalls NV accounted for the remaining revenue, net assets and profit before tax of the Group and was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the supervision of the Group audit team to a component materiality of 0.75 million.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits to the Groups Belgium site during the year.
In addition, the Senior Statutory Auditor has been involved in the planning and reporting procedures for all of the Groups components.
In future years we will continue to include the component audit partner and team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
76 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors We have nothing to report remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in arising from these matters.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the We have nothing to report Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, We confirm that we have information in the Annual Report is: not identified any such inconsistencies or materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or misleading statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of theFinancial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, ormaterially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Robertson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, UK 15 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 77
