STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs Group financial statements Materiality Overall Group materiality: 17 million the financial statements : which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Audit Scope We identified 12 reporting units which, in at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the our view, required a full scope audit based year then ended: on their size or risk.
In addition we have been properly prepared in accordance with determined that specified audit procedures International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as were required at a further 5 reporting units adopted by the European Union: and to address specific risk characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group coverage have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of of particular financial statement line items.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We used component teams in 4 countries to What we have audited perform a combination of full scope audits The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and specified procedures at 13 reporting and Accounts, comprise: units, with the Group team performing the remainder.
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: The Group consolidation, financial the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement disclosures and a number of statement of comprehensive income for the year then complex items, prepared by the head office ended: finance function, were audited by the Group engagement team.
the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: Reporting units where we performed audit procedures accounted for 64% of Group the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the profit before tax: 63% of Group underlying year then ended: and profit before tax: and 82% of Group total the notes to the financial statements, which include a assets.
Our audit scope provided sufficient summary of significant accounting policies and other appropriate audit evidence as a basis for explanatory information.
our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Areas of focus Goodwill impairment assessments in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Development costs and programme financial statements and are identified as audited.
participation costs impairment assessments The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Environmental provisions preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Provisions for uncertain tax positions The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards onAuditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimatesthat involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due tofraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on ouraudit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read inthis context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by ouraudit.
94 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessments Refer to note 18 pages 124 to 125 The Group holds significant amounts of We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which goodwill 2,095.7m on the balance sheet they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying discounted cash which is supported by an annual flow model.
We compared the forecasts used in this model to the plan and impairment review.
No impairment charge assessed the actual performance in the year against the prior year budgets to has been recorded against goodwill in the evaluate historical forecasting accuracy.
In respect of the three CGUs we focused our additional audit procedures on, we Our audit focused on the risk that the carrying assessed the directors assumptions for future cash flow growth in the plan, by: value of goodwill could be overstated.
Obtaining corroborating evidence to support growth assumptions in excess of Certain assumptions used in the impairment our assumed weighted average market growth rate.
Based on the evidence review are subjective and require estimates obtained we found that the directors assumptions were not unreasonable: and to be made to calculate the recoverable Performing sensitivity analysis in respect of the key assumptions to ascertain amount, determined by value in use, of its the extent of change in those assumptions which, either individually or cash generating units CGUs or groups of collectively, would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
The key estimates and assumptions significant downside changes before a material impairment was required.
We assessed include: assessed the likelihood of these changes in assumptions arising and the future cash flow growth assumptions concluded that these are not considered to be reasonably possible.
used in the Groups most recent budgets and plans for the next five years For all impairment assessments we: approved by management the plan : Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to the growth rate used beyond the period externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We used covered by the plan: and our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and observed the discount rate applied to future cash them to be within a reasonable range: flows.
We applied the following scoping criteria to Considered the use of the long-term GDP growth rate for the country in which identify those CGUs requiring additional the CGU operates for the growth rate used beyond the period covered by the audit procedures: plan, and observed these to be within a reasonable range: and CGUs that indicated a shortfall in value Assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which key in use compared to total CGU carrying assumptions would need to change for the recoverable amount to fall below value when, for the period covered by the carrying value of goodwill, in particular in relation to those CGUs with the plan, the level of underlying profit thelowest percentage headroom.
We determined that these disclosures growth was capped at a weighted appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of estimate and average market growth rate, using judgement.
The weighted average market growth rates were derived as follows: For CGUs operating predominantly in the civil aerospace market, the civil aerospace capacity long-term trend rate measured in available seat kilometres ASKs : and For CGUs operating predominantly in the military, energy and other markets, territory Gross Domestic Product GDP growth projections, based on our published economic projections.
This identified the following CGUs for further consideration: EDAC and Advanced Composites.
This CGU has goodwill of 241.7m: Meggitt Training Systems.
This CGU has goodwill of 84.2m: and One CGU within Other.
This group of CGUs has total goodwill of 37.7m.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 95 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Development costs and programme participation costs impairment assessments Refer also to note 19 page 126 The Group holds significant amounts of We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which development costs 533.5m and they were drawn up, and tested the integrity of the underlying discounted cash programme participation costs 333.5m flow model.
In respect of the programme impairment assessments tested we: on the balance sheet.
These intangible Agreed the fleet forecast data up to 2031 used in calculating the programme assets are subject to impairment testing at forecast cash flow to external market forecasts, taking into account the extent the individual asset programme level, at to which the Group has a sole-source position.
We corroborated any significant least annually and, where the programme deviations applied by the directors to supporting evidence.
We assessed fleet value in use compared to its carrying value forecasts used beyond the period covered by the external market forecasts, is limited, or if events or changes in considering average aircraft lives and trend analysis and considered them to circumstances indicate the carrying value be reasonable: may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Agreed the sales price per part to customer contract and did not identify any An impairment charge of 3.3m has been material exceptions in these tests: recorded against these balances in the current year.
Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where relevant, to Our audit focused on the risk that the externally derived data or data for comparable listed organisations.
We used carrying value of these intangible assets our specialists in assessing the overall discount rates used, and observed could be overstated.
them to be within a reasonable range: and We focused our audit procedures on those Assessed the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which key programmes against which the directors assumptions would need to change for the recoverable amount to fall below have recorded an impairment provision and the programme carrying values, in particular in relation to those with a those with limited excess of value in use over significant carrying value.
We determined that these disclosures appropriately carrying value, or significant carrying value.
draw attention to the significant areas of estimate.
The key estimates and assumptions assessed were: The estimated aircraft or engine volumes fleet forecasts and the period over which future cash flows areforecast fleet lives : The sales price per part: and The discount rate applied to future cashflows.
96 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Environmental provisions Refer also to note 32 page 137 The Group has liabilities of 121.7m relating Our work on the valuation of environmental liabilities comprised the following: to environmental matters.
We obtained the cost estimates and reports prepared by the Groups external The environmental matters primarily relate environmental consultants for the most significant sites.
We assessed the to known exposures arising from consistency of the cost estimates year on year and the level of costs incurred environmental investigation and compared to the prior year estimates to assess the historical accuracy of the remediation of certain sites in the US for estimates and understand changes to the scope of remediation plans.
The which the Group has been identified as a changes in scope have been appropriately reflected in the provision: potentially responsible party under US law.
We confirmed that the Groups external environmental consultants are The liabilities are based on subjective qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective estimates of the level and timing of local territory, and are independent of the Group: and remediation costs, including the period We reconciled the cost estimates and reports to the provision recorded and ofoperating and monitoring activities gained an understanding of all significant adjustments applied by the directors required.
Our audit focused on the risk that such as differences in the period over which operating and monitoring the provisions in relation to these matters activities are conducted and the application of additional provisions for could be understated.
We assessed the reasonableness of these, including The Group has separately recognised reviewing historical data where appropriateand consider the provision to be insurance and other third party receivables supported by reasonable assumptions.
We focused on the required Our work on the valuation of insurance and other third party receivables asset recognition criteria being met and comprised the following: recoverability of these receivables.
We obtained the insurance policies to confirm the coverage limits: We obtained confirmation from the insurer of the claims and settlements to date, and assessed the extent of insurance coverage against the known exposures, including the likelihood of reimbursement: and We obtained evidence of the insurers financial position to assess their ability to meet the policy obligations and consider the recognition of the insurance and other third party receivable is supportable.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Refer also to note 34 pages 139 to 143 The Group has retirement benefit We evaluated the assumptions made in relation to the valuation of the liabilities, obligations with gross liabilities of with input from our actuarial specialists.
In particular we: 1,367.2m, which are significant in the Agreed the discount and inflation rates used to our internally developed context of the overall Group balance sheet.
benchmarks, based on externally derived data and comparable organisations: The valuation of retirement benefit Compared assumed mortality rates to national and industry averages: obligations requires significant levels of judgement and technical expertise, Assessed the assumption for salary increases against the Groups historical including the use of actuarial experts to trend and expected future outlook: and support the directors in selecting Confirmed that the Groups external specialists, are qualified and affiliated appropriate assumptions.
Small changes in with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective local territory, and are a number of the key financial and independent of the Group.
demographic assumptions used to value the Groups retirement benefit obligation, Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the assumptions used by the including discount rates, inflation rates, directors were reasonable.
salary increases and mortality could have a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
Our audit procedures focused on the risk that the assumptions used result in an understatement of the retirement benefit obligation.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 97 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Refer also to note 4 page 114 The Group has a provision for uncertain tax In conjunction with our internal UK and international tax specialists we: positions of 43.4m.
Evaluated the process by which the directors calculated each tax exposure Estimates have to be made by the directors on and assessed whether the assumptions they have used, in conjunction with the tax treatment of a number of transactions their advisors, in developing the estimated exposure, provided a in advance of the ultimate tax determination supportable and reasonable basis to calculate the provision for uncertain being certain.
tax positions: This is due to the complexity of the Groups Considered any tax opinions or other tax advice the Group had received legal structure including multiple legal from its tax advisors in relation to the exposures identified to determine entities, the number of tax jurisdictions that the treatment is consistent with the advice obtained.
We also primarily the UK and US in which the Group considered the evidence of recent tax audits and external tax cases which operates, the complexity of international tax may have an impact on existing tax exposures: legislation and the changing tax environment.
Assessed and formed our own views on the key judgements with respect to In addition, uncertainty arises from intergroup open and uncertain tax positions and concluded that the judgements made transactions relating to goods, services and by the directors were materially consistent with our own views in respect of internal financing.
the tax exposures: and Where the amount of tax payable or Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential exposures were recoverable is uncertain, the Group appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
establishes provisions based on the directors judgement of the probable amount of the We evaluated that the directors judgements in respect of the Groups position liability, or expected amounts recoverable.
on uncertain tax items are supportable and reasonable in the context of the information currently available to them and no material matters were Our audit procedures focused on the risk that identified by our work that the directors had not adequately reflected in conclusion of the ultimate tax determination theirestimate.
by tax authorities is at an amount materially different to the amount recorded.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed scope audit at a further 11 reporting units, based on their size enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial or risk.
Senior members of the Group audit engagement team statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic visited all of these reporting units, to review the work structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, undertaken by component auditors and assess the audit and the industry in which the Group operates.
We also performed specified procedures on 5 reporting units to address specific risk characteristics or to The Groups accounting process is structured around a local provide sufficient overall Group coverage of revenue.
In finance function in each of the Groups reporting units.
These addition to the work performed at the in-scope reporting units, functions maintain their own accounting records and controls there is a substantial amount of work performed at head office although transactional processing and certain controls for by the Group audit engagement team.
The Group consolidation, some reporting units are performed at the Groups shared financial statement disclosures and a number of complex service centres and report to the head office finance team items, prepared by the head office finance function, were through an integrated consolidation system.
audited by the Group engagement team.
These included In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we goodwill, other intangible assets, investments, derivative determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the financial instruments and related hedge accounting, bank and reporting units by the Group engagement team and by other borrowings and related finance costs, environmental component auditors from other PwC network firms.
Where the provisions and related insurance receivables, certain onerous work was performed by component auditors, we determined the contracts and other provisions, retirement benefit obligations, level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those share based payments and central adjustments raised as part reporting units so as to be able to conclude whether sufficient of the consolidation process.
These audit procedures appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our accounted for 64% of Group profit before tax: 63% of Group opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
underlying profit before tax: and 82% of Group total assets key coverage metrics.
As a result of its structure and size, For each reporting unit we determined whether we required the Group also has a large number of small reporting units an audit of their complete financial information full scope that are individually immaterial but, in aggregate, make up a or whether specified procedures addressing specific risk material portion of the key coverage metrics.
These small characteristics or particular financial statement line items reporting units are covered by the work performed by the would be sufficient.
Those where a full scope audit was Group audit engagement team, where we perform analytical required included the largest reporting unit Meggitt Aircraft review procedures.
A significant proportion of these remaining Braking Systems in Akron, determined as individually reporting units not selected for local procedures were subject financially significant because it contributes more than 15% of to an analysis of year on year movements, at a level of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
We performed a full 98 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued disaggregation to enable a focus on higher risk balances and Other required reporting unusual movements.
Those not subject to analytical review Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements procedures were individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
Companies Act 2006 reporting This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Materiality Directors report for the financial year for which the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of financial statements are prepared is consistent with the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for financial statements: and materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, the Strategic report and the Directors report have been helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, prepared in accordance with applicable legal timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual requirements.
financial statement line items and disclosures and in In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the on the financial statements as a whole.
audit, we are required to report if we have identified any Based on our professional judgement, we determined material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Overall Group materiality 17 million 2015: 10 million.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
in ouropinion: Rationale for benchmark We applied this benchmark, which information in the Annual Report and We have no applied is different from the benchmark we Accounts is: exceptions to applied in the prior year statutory materially inconsistent with the report.
profit before tax, because we information in the audited financial consider that underlying profit before statements: or tax is the primary performance apparently materially incorrect based on, measure considered by the primary or materially inconsistent with, our users of the Annual Report and knowledge of the Group acquired in the Accounts.
Further, we consider it course of performing our audit: or appropriate to eliminate volatility otherwise misleading.
and to preserve the link between materiality and the performance of the statement given by the directors on We have no theunderlying business.
page 92, in accordance with provision exceptions to C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance report.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Code the Code, that they consider the them misstatements identified during our audit above Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, 850,000 2015: 500,000 as well as misstatements below balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for members to assess the Groups position qualitative reasons.
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with Going concern our knowledge of the Group acquired in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the course of performing our audit.
statement, set out on page 92, in relation to going concern.
We the section of the Annual Report and We have no have nothing to report having performed our review.
Accounts on page 61, as required by exceptions to provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the report.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if work of the Audit Committee does not we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in appropriately address matters relation to the directors statement about whether they communicated by us to the Audit considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in Committee.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency As noted in the directors statement, the directors have or liquidity of the Group concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to relation to: remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements the directors confirmation on page 28 of We have the Annual Report and Accounts, in nothing were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the material to directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Code, that they have carried out a robust add or to draw However, because not all future events or conditions can be assessment of the principal risks facing attention to.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the the Group, including those that would Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 99 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these the disclosures in the Annual Report and We have opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Accounts that describe those risks and nothing purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown explain how they are being managed or material to or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed mitigated.
add or to draw by our prior consent in writing.
the directors explanation on page 33 of We have What an audit of financial statements involves the Annual Report and Accounts, in nothing An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the material to disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Code, as to how they have assessed the add or to draw reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free prospects of the Group, over what period attention to.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or they have done so and why they consider error.
This includes an assessment of: that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the reasonable expectation that the Group Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied will be able to continue in operation and and adequately disclosed: meet its liabilities as they fall due over the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates the period of their assessment, including made by the directors: and any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the directors statement that they have carried out a robust financial statements.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of We test and examine information, using sampling and other the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We the directors process supporting their statements: checking obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of that the statements are in alignment with the relevant controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify report having performed our review.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Adequacy of information and explanations received incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we consider whether those Directors remuneration reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to requirements.
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no Other matter exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Corporate governance statement statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 2016 and on the information in the Directors remuneration the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further report that is described as having been audited.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor responsibilities set out on pages 91 and 92, the directors are for and on behalf of  LLP responsible for the preparation of the financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 27 February 2017 financial statements in accordance with applicable law andISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to complywith the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standardsfor Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for andonly for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
