STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 153 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Report on the parent company financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Our opinion ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in In our opinion, Meggitt PLCs parent company financial our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: statements the financial statements : materially inconsistent with the information in the audited give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys financial statements: or affairs as at 31 December 2016: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially have been properly prepared in accordance with United inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and acquired in the course of performing our audit: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What we have audited Adequacy of accounting records and information and The financial statements, included within the Annual Report explanations received and Accounts, comprise: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: you if, in our opinion: the Company statement of changes in equity for the year we have not received all the information and explanations then ended: and we require for our audit: or the notes to the financial statements, which include a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the summary of significant accounting policies and other parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not explanatory information.
been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere the financial statements and the part of the Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the with the accounting records and returns.
financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Directors remuneration Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other required reporting Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to applicable requirements you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors Companies Act 2006 reporting remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Responsibilities for the financial statements and Directors report for the financial year for which the theaudit financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Our responsibilities and those of the directors financial statements: and As explained more fully in the Statement of directors the Strategic report and the Directors report have been responsibilities set out on page 91 and 92, the directors are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any financial statements in accordance with applicable law and material misstatements in the Strategic report and the ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
154 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial only for the parent companys members as a body in information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these and to identify any information that is apparently materially opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material by our prior consent in writing.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and What an audit of financial statements involves Directors report, we consider whether those reports include We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient Other matter to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are We have reported separately on the Group financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements of Meggitt PLC for the year ended error.
This includes an assessment of: 31December2016.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the for and on behalf of  LLP directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 27 February 2017 financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
