JPM Mercantile pp35 43 05 04 2016 16:17 Page 35 Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Report on the financial Our opinion statements In our opinion, The Mercantile Investment Trust plcs financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2016 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st January 2016: the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality: Overall materiality: 18.5 million which represents approximately 1% of net assets.
Audit scope: The company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages JPMorgan Funds Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements from information provided by JPMorgan Corporate & Investment Bank the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Areas of focus: Income from investments Valuation and existence of investments The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35 JPM Mercantile pp35 43 05 04 2016 16:17 Page 36 Independent Auditors Report continued The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income from investments We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing to check that income had been Refer to page 28 Directors Report, accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
page 44 Accounting Policies and page 47 Notes to the Financial Statements.
We found that the accounting policies implemented were in accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, and that income has been accounted for in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a the stated accounting policy.
risk of fraud in income recognition because of the pressure management We understood and assessed the design and implementation of key controls surrounding may feel to achieve capital growth in income recognition.
line with the objective of the company.
In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from a sample of We focused on the accuracy and investments to independent third party sources.
completeness of dividend income No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged recognition and its presentation in the with governance.
Income Statement as set out in the requirements of The Association of To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the Investment Companies Statement of year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for a sample of investment Recommended Practice the AIC holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
This is because incomplete or inaccurate We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the income and income could have a material impact on capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the the companys net asset value.
We then tested the validity of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
Valuation and existence of We tested the valuation of the listed investment portfolio by agreeing the prices used in the investments valuation to independent third party sources.
We tested the Directors valuation of the unquoted stocks.
Refer to page 28 Directors Report, page 44 Accounting Policies and page No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged 50 Notes to the Financial Statements.
The investment portfolio at the year-end We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for principally comprised of listed equity investments to an independent custodian confirmation from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. investments of 1,773 million.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Position in the financial statements.
36 JPM Mercantile pp35 43 05 04 2016 16:17 Page 37 Independent Auditors Report continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
The Companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator who maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the Manager and the Directors.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such work.
We then identified those key controls at the Administrator on which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
We also assessed the gap period of 4 months between the period covered by the controls report and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements, including whether we needed to perform additional testing in respect of those key controls to support our substantive work.
For the purposes of our audit, we determined that additional testing of controls in place at the Administrator was not required because additional substantive testing was performed.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 18.5 million 2015: 17.1 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 927,000 2015: 855,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 24, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 37 JPM Mercantile pp35 43 05 04 2016 16:17 Page 38 Independent Auditors Report continued the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 34, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 28 and 29, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing or to draw attention to.
the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being or to draw attention to.
We have nothing material to add the Directors explanation on page 21 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 or to draw attention to.
of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
38 JPM Mercantile pp35 43 05 04 2016 16:17 Page 39 Independent Auditors Report continued Adequacy of accounting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: records and information and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or explanations received adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial Our responsibilities and those of the Directors statements and the audit As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 6th April 2016 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 39
