ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF METRO BANK PLC ON COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY INFORMATION We have audited the country-by-country information in note 31 to the financial statements of Metro Bank PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 the schedule.
The schedule has been prepared by the Directors based on the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
Directors responsibility for the schedule The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the schedule in accordance with the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013, for the appropriateness of the basis of preparation and the interpretation of the regulations as they affect the preparation of the schedule, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the schedule that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the schedule based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the schedule is free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the schedule.
The procedures selected depend on the Auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the schedule, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation of the schedule in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the schedule.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the country-by-country information in the schedule as at 31 December 2016 is prepared, in all material respects, inaccordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
Basis of preparation and restriction on distribution Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that the Country-by-Country Reporting information in the schedule is prepared to assist the Directors to meet the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
As a result, the schedule may not be suitable for another purpose.
Our report is intended solely for the benefit of the Directors of Metro Bank PLC.
We do not accept or assume any responsibility or liability to any other party save where terms are agreed between us in writing.
 LLP Chartered Accountants London 2 March 2017 109 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
