Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion In our opinion, Micro Focus International plcs Group financial Materiality Overall Group materiality: $14.6m which statements the financial statements : represents approximately 4% of profit before tax, exceptional items and give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as amortization of purchased intangibles.
at30 April 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year thenended: Audit scope The Micro Focus Group has finance functions in three principal locations around have been properly prepared in accordance with International the world, being the UK, US and Ireland.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the One of these is the Groups head office European Union: and located in the UK where our work on the Group consolidation was conducted.
Local have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of teams in the US and Ireland audited the theCompanies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
primary business components accounted forfrom those locations, with the Group What we have audited audit team visiting these locations during The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and the year both to direct and supervise the Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: work of local teams and to make sure we had a fulland complete understanding the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 April 2016: oftheir work particularly in so far as it relatedto the identified areas of focus.
the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: In total, locations where we performed audit work accounted for 70% of the the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: Group cost base and 75% of Group revenues.
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Areas of focus Revenue recognition then ended: Restructuring the Summary of significant accounting policies: and Taxation the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the identified as audited.
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently European Union, and applicable law.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that representedarisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
92 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Revenue recognition Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 1 and 2 pages 111 and 112 Our testing focused on the larger and more complex revenue transactions throughout the year and on sales made around We focused on this area because the allocation of revenue to theyear end to check that revenue was accounted for in the each component of a sale Licence, Maintenance, Subscription correct period.
In aggregate the contracts tested accounted and Consulting, when sold together in a bundle requires the forapproximately 28% of total Licence revenue.
We assessed this risk to be greatest inlarger transactions, where there is increased likelihood of In respect of sales contracts tested, we checked that the fair unusual sales arrangements containing bespoke terms.
value allocation of revenue between the Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting components at deal inception Given that Licence revenue is generally recognized up front in wasinline with the terms of the sales contracts and Group full, whereas Maintenance is spread over the duration of the accountingpolicies.
This included considering any unusual terms contract term, the risk of there being inappropriate allocation inthe sales contracts and the period during which Maintenance ofrevenue also becomes more relevant in the period isto be provided to the customer.
We tested the basis upon immediatelyprior to the year end.
whichmanagement calculate the fair value attributable to thecomponents of revenue by reference to the sales price We also addressed how processes and controls may have been achievedwhen components are sold on a standalone basis, circumvented and manual adjustments made to revenue.
whichwe found to be consistent.
For all contracts that we tested, we confirmed that managements calculations of the revenue recognized incorporated all relevant contract terms and an appropriate split of total revenue between different contractual elements.
In order to assess where processes and controls may have been circumvented and inappropriate manual adjustments made to revenue, we used data analysis techniques to identify revenue postings in certain significant reporting units not generated bycash or trade receivables or a release from deferred income.
Having identified those transactions, we traced a sample to supporting documentary evidence that, without exception, supported their validity.
93 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Restructuring Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 3 and 24 pages 112 to 114, and 129 to 130 We tested the property provision by agreeing details of rental obligations to underlying rental contracts for a selection of In the prior year, the Group commenced a significant restructuring properties.
We assessed managements assessment of surplus plan in relation to the integration of The Attachmate Group Inc. space by checking that the levels of occupancy and activity TAG business.
As part of that plan, the Group announced the correlated with the levels of surplus spaceincluded in the closures of a number of properties primarily in the US and the provisions calculation, which they did.
Forproperties that the UK, and redundancies of employees across the Group and made Group expects to be sub-let, we obtained evidence that the provisions in the prior year for restructuring and integration Group had engaged third parties in the active marketing of the including severance costs associated with employees, and properties: we compared the period of assumed vacancy before onerous lease and dilapidations costs on vacated property.
sub-let to what we observe more generally in the market place forthe locations concerned: we assessed whether the sub-let This integration plan has continued during 2016 with a net income assumed was commensurate with rental ratesobserved charge in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in those local markets: and where properties hadbeensub-let relating to this plan of $6.0m for property and $18.8m for we agreed the sub-let income assumptions tothose sub-rental restructuring and integration, inclusive of a $4.8m credit in agreements.
We found managements estimates to be consistent respect of severance.
The provision that remains at the year end with these observations.
inthe Consolidated statement of financial position was $18.2m foronerous leases and dilapidations and $3.5m for restructuring We selected a sample of individuals in respect of whom and integration.
$53.9m of provision has also been utilized on severance provisions had previously been recognized and these activities in the year.
checkedand found that the severance payments being offset against the provision agreed to the severance agreements and The estimate of severance and integration costs credits that need bank statements.
We noted that there was a $4.5m net credit to be recognized in the financial statements involves the exercise inrespect of severance, with an immaterial amount of additional ofjudgment around the value of future costs, and the extent to severance provision being recognized and so we focused our which a constructive obligation exists.
The estimate of the onerous testing on the provision release.
We performed testing on lease provisions is also dependent on judgments in particular, individuals where the larger releases had occurred.
We found where the directors intend to sub-let the property, the expected that the release was consistent with the difference between the rental income and the time delay in securing a sub-tenant.
severance payments made and the provision originally recorded.
In addition the presentation of restructuring costs in the We also selected a sample of items in respect of which other Consolidated statement of comprehensive income as exceptional integration provisions had been recognized.
For the sample selected we checked and found that the provision was consistent expenses required additional consideration, as the classification with supporting documentation.
We also found that the majority of an expense as exceptional depends on judgments made by the of such provisions were utilized in the year against on-going directors in identifying such items.
Consistency in identifying and integration activities.
disclosing items as exceptional is important in order to maintain comparability of the results year-on-year.
We tested the presentation of exceptional items by assessing whether the classification in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is in line with the Groups accounting policy as set out on page 108, and whether the accounting policyis consistent with IFRS as adopted in the EU.
We found noissues regarding the accounting policy or its application.
Where provisions were recorded that were in respect of exceptional items, we reconciled the exceptional charge recordedin the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the movement in related provision.
For those restructuring exceptional costs incurred and expensed in the year, we obtained listings and vouched a sample of these coststosupporting documentation.
94 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Taxation Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Refer also to notes 6, 21 and 28 pages 116 to 117, 129 and Our testing focused on the following areas: 136to 137 We used our own tax expertise to evaluate the assessment and The existing Group structure is complex and has a significant calculations performed by management to estimate theprovisions presence in jurisdictions that have more complex tax legislation.
held in respect of uncertain tax positions.
To do this we assessed the This brings with it an increased complexity to calculating the provisions recognized in the financial statements using the outcome correct current and deferred tax balances in accordance with of prior tax audits conducted on the Group, correspondence local jurisdiction tax rules with a consequential increased risk between the Group and relevant tax authorities, the view of the oferror.
Groups tax advisors, and our own experience in these areas.
Wefound the provision to be within an acceptable range.
We identified local tax rules and considered how they impacted the calculation of current and deferred tax balances, including the impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, in order to check the adequacy of the tax assets and liabilities recognized at the year end.
We found that the Group had reflected identified tax rules in their calculations.
We examined the forecasts prepared by management to support the recoverability of deferred tax assets including tax losses.
Basedon our testing, we found there to be consistency between the assumptions on which the forecasts were based, and our understanding of the business and its historical performance.
We reconciled, without identifying any material reconciling items, the current tax liability position through agreement of the opening position, vouched cash payments and or refunds and agreement of the current tax credit or charge to the consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income.
We used our local tax expertise in the UK and US to understand the judgments made by the Group in relation to the on-going integration activities of the Group.
We held meetings with senior management and read correspondence from the Groups external tax advisors and considered their views on these matters.
We assessed and formed our own views on the key judgments madeby the Group and found that the judgments made were materially consistent with our own views in respect of the significant tax exposures.
95 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed forthe financial statements as a whole as follows: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic Overall Group $14.6m 2015: $10.0m.
structureof the Group, the accounting processes and controls, materiality andthe industry in which the Group operates.
How we 4% of profit before tax, exceptional items and determined it amortization of purchased intangibles.
The on-going Group integration activities have led to a change in Rationale for We applied this benchmark, which is different thecomposition of the overall Group, with an increased number benchmark from the benchmark we applied in the prior year, ofbusiness activities and transactions occurring in the US and applied because, following the acquisition of TAG in Ireland.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, theprior year, we consider it necessary to do weassessed the audit significance of each reporting unit in the sotoeliminate volatility and to preserve the link Group by reference to both its financial significance and other between materiality and the performance of indicators of audit risk, such as the complexity of operations and theunderlying business.
Recognising that thedegree of estimation and judgment in the financial results.
theseadjustments increased the value of the Wealso considered the changes to the overall Group as a result benchmark, we reduced the percentage ofthe on-going integration activities following the completion valuethatwe applied.
oftheacquisition of TAG in the prior year and where the key businessactivities and transactions now reside.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Following this assessment, we determined that we needed to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.7m focusour audit work at the Groups head office.
We also instructed 2015: $0.5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, PwC US and PwC Ireland, as component auditors, to perform inour view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
audits of financial information of the significant reporting units accounted forlocally in those territories.
We visited these locations Going concern during the year to ensure we obtained a full understanding of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors operational activities, and appropriately scoped risks and agreed statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern.
We also attended audit clearance meetings Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
in these locations and took an active part in reviewing the work undertaken by PwC US and PwC Ireland on the areas of significant Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we risk and areas of focus relevant to their locations.
This, together have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to with additional procedures performed at the Group level over the the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
We have nothing material to add or to drawattention to.
In total, locations where we performed audit work accounted As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded for70% of the Group cost base and 75% of Grouprevenues.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that Materiality theGroup has adequate resources to remain in operation, and The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of thatthe directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions extentof our audit procedures on the individual financial can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the statementline items and disclosures and in evaluating the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
96 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired inthe course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 90, in accordance We have no exceptions to report.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode, that they consider the Annual Report taken as awhole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 55 to 57, as We have no exceptions to report.
requiredbyprovision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work ofthe AuditCommittee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 32 of the Annual Report, We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
inaccordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 38 of the Annual Report, We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
inaccordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how theyhave assessed the prospects of the Group, over what periodthey have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
97 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors What an audit of financial statements involves statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and theprincipal risks facing the Group and the directors statement disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable inrelation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review assurance that the financial statements are free from material wassubstantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes ofmaking inquiries and considering the directors process anassessment of: supporting their statements: checking that the statements areinalignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the andconsidering whether the statements are consistent with Groupscircumstances and have been consistently applied theknowledge acquired by us inthe course of performing our andadequately disclosed: audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Adequacy of information and explanations received bythe directors: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to youif, in our opinion, we have not received all the information the overall presentation of the financial statements.
andexplanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptionstoreport arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgments against available evidence, forming Directors remuneration ourownjudgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you financialstatements.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report We test and examine information, using sampling and other arising from this responsibility.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to providea reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Corporate governance statement audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of substantive procedures or a combination of both.
theCorporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information performed our review.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Responsibilities for the financial statements with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the and the audit audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Our responsibilities and those of the directors or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilitiesset out on page 90, the directors are responsible Other matter forthe preparation of the financial statements and for being We have reported separately on the Company financial statements satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration report that Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the isdescribed as having been audited.
financialstatements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK& Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Andrew Paynter onlyfor the Companys members as a body in accordance with Senior Statutory Auditor Chapter 3of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other for and on behalf of  LLP purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Reading whomthis report isshown or into whose hands it may come 13 July 2016 savewhere expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
