Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc the Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended: Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then In our opinion, Micro Focus International plcs Company financial ended: and statements the financial statements : the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
at 30 April 2016 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in thepreparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom What we have audited Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial The financial statements, included within the Annual Report ReportingStandard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, andAccounts 2016 the Annual Report, comprise: and applicable law UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted the Company Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2016: AccountingPractice.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and theDirectors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, inouropinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
auditedfinancial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquiredinthecourse of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
 for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by theCompany, or returns adequate for our audit have notbeenreceived from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreementwiththe accounting records and returns.
151 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc continued Directors remuneration We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors remuneration report Companies Act directorsjudgments against available evidence, forming 2006opinion ourownjudgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report financialstatements.
tobeaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with theCompanies Act 2006.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Other Companies Act 2006 reporting providea reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration substantive procedures or a combination of both.
specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial informationin the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencieswith the audited financial statements and to Responsibilities for the financial statements identifyany information that is apparently materially incorrect andthe audit basedon, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Our responsibilities and those of the directors byus in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware As explained more fully in the Statement of directors ofany apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation consider the implications for our report.
ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ofMicro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2016. financialstatements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK& Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Andrew Paynter onlyfor the Companys members as a body in accordance with Senior Statutory Auditor Chapter 3of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other for and on behalf of  LLP purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Reading whomthis report isshown or into whose hands it may come 13 July 2016 savewhere expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
Anaudit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently appliedandadequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates madebythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
