Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our The risk: The Group has significant hotel key inputs such as projected economic and audit assets which are carried at cost and are market growth, occupancy and room rates, 1 Our opinion on the financial statements subject to an annual review to assess whether cost forecasts, discount rates and terminal is unmodified or not they may be impaired.
We considered the We have audited the financial statements of applies a two-step process in assessing their appropriateness of the Groups disclosures Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Plc for the year hotel assets for possible impairment.
The first about the impairments and the sensitivity of ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 74 step is to identify those properties at risk, i. e. the outcome of the impairment assessment to to 142.
In our opinion: those where there is an indication of changes in key assumptions.
Those hotels highlighted as being the financial statements give a true and fair at risk following this analysis are then Our findings: We found the Group has a robust, structured and comprehensive view of the state of the Groups and of the subjected to a detailed impairment review parent companys affairs as at 31 December which, for 2016, were all made with reference process for appropriately identifying hotel assets with impairment indicators.
We found 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year to external valuations.
Certain hotel assets then ended: were considered at risk of impairment due to that the methodologies used by the external valuers were appropriate.
As a result of our the Group financial statements have been being subject to impairment in previous years properly prepared in accordance with and therefore any decline in performance work we found the assumptions used and the resulting estimates to be slightly optimistic International Financial Reporting Standards as compared to the projections used to adopted by the European Union: determine the previous impairment may result although the quantum of impairment recognised in 2016 continued to be the parent company financial statements have in a further impairment being recorded and been properly prepared in accordance with because the Group has experienced a difficult appropriate.
We found that the disclosures proportionately describe the inherent degree UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 trading environment in 2016, particularly in the Reduced Disclosure Framework: and US and Asia, where some of the Groups of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions the financial statements have been prepared largest hotel properties operate.
in accordance with the requirements of the to these estimates.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the The estimated recoverable amount of an Classification and valuation of investment Group financial statements, Article 4 of the asset is generally determined by forecasting properties 2016 - 534m, 2015 - 506m IAS Regulation.
and discounting future cash flows.
This Risk vs 2015 - no change analysis is subjective due to the inherent 2 Our assessment of risks of material Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, uncertainty involved in determining Note 2.3 Summary of significant accounting misstatement appropriate assumptions such as discount We summarise below the risks of material policies, Note 3 Accounting estimates and rates, growth rates, occupancy rates, revenue judgments, and Note 14 Financial misstatement unchanged from prior year that per available room and terminal values.
had the greatest effect on our audit in Disclosures.
Therefore, the review and challenge of these decreasing order of audit significance, our key assumptions is one of the key judgmental audit procedures to address those risks and The risk: Classification of an asset as areas that our audit is concentrated on.
investment property rather than as Property, our findings based on those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body Our response: Our procedures included Plant & Equipment requires judgment, and is determined by reference to the Groups future may better understand the process by which challenging the directors initial risk we arrived at our audit opinion.
These assessment process by which properties intentions and business model.
As discussed in note 2.3, this classification results in a procedures were undertaken in the context of, were selected for further assessment of their and solely for the purpose of, our statutory recoverable amount.
This included different accounting treatment because Property, Plant and Equipment is recorded at audit opinion on the financial statements as a comparison of actual asset performance to whole and consequently the results of these previous forecasts and to the market depreciated cost whereas investment properties are carried at fair value.
The models procedures are incidental to that opinion.
We performance and assessing the quantum of do not express discrete opinions on separate available headroom.
For those properties applied to determine the fair value of investment properties are complex and elements of the financial statements.
selected for a detailed impairment review, we used our own valuation specialists to assist us sensitive to assumptions around occupancy, Valuation of hotel assets 2016 - 3,238m rental rates and future market growth.
Most of in evaluating the assumptions and 2015 - 2,764m Risk vs 2015 - no methodologies used by the external valuers.
the investment properties are currently held in change Asia where the Group experienced economic In particular, these included forecasted cash Refer to page 45 Audit Committee Report, flows as well as discount rates and terminal slowdown which may introduce increased Note 2.3 Summary of significant accounting pressure and level of uncertainty around the multipliers.
We compared the valuation policies, Note 3 Accounting estimates and assumptions used to externally derived data valuation of these assets.
judgments, and Note 12 Financial Disclosures.
as well as our own assessments in relation to 68 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Our response: The classification assessment the normalised PBT the component teams component materialities, which ranged from is most relevant upon acquisition of a new perform procedures on items relating to their 0.2 million to 4.5 million 2015: 0.2 million property or when there is a significant change components.
The group audit team perform to 5.0 million having regard to the mix of size in the manner in which the currently owned procedures on the remaining excluded items.
and risk profile of the Group across the properties are managed.
The work on the five reporting our procedures included making enquiries of We reported to the Audit & Risk Committee all components was performed by component corrected and uncorrected misstatements we the senior members of the finance team and auditors.
Directors, inspecting internal business plans, identified through our audit with a value in excess of 350,000, in addition to other audit and considering key terms of external The Group audit team visited three component contracts and agreements.
For the purposes misstatements below that threshold that we locations in the UK, US and Asia.
Telephone believed warranted reporting on qualitative of the valuation assessment, we analysed the conference meetings were also held with these appropriateness of the valuation methodology grounds.
At these visits and applied, and considered whether it is in line meetings, the findings reported to the Group with accounting requirements and business The Groups principal operations are in the audit team were discussed in more detail, and United Kingdom, Asia and the US which practice.
We challenged the key assumptions any further work required by the Group audit used in determining fair value.
This included a represent over 91% of Group revenue 2015: team was then performed by the component 94%, 92% Group profit before tax 2015: 94% comparison of forecast rental rates, market auditor.
growth, occupancy rates, and real estate and 93% of Group total assets 2015: 92%.
All of these operations are scoped in for a full 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed sales prices with externally derived data and internal budgets.
We also performed our own scope audit to component materiality for the by the Companies Act 2006 is Group audit purposes.
Although not financially unmodified assessment of other key inputs such as discount rates and terminal multipliers.
Our significant, in agreement with the Audit In our opinion: Committee, reviews of financial information valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation the part of the Directors Remuneration of the more subjective and complex including inquiry were also performed on two entities in Middle East and China by component Report to be audited has been properly assumptions and analyses.
Finally, we prepared in accordance with the Companies assessed whether the Groups disclosures auditors simultaneously with the audit of the 1 Group and its financially significant operations.
Act 2006: and properly reflected the risks inherent in the the information given in the Strategic Report calculations and met the requirements of The remaining 5% of total group revenue, 7% and the Directors Report for the financial year relevant accounting standards.
of group profit before tax and 4% of total group is consistent with the financial statements.
Our findings: We found the Groups key assets is represented by four other overseas operations, none of which individually Based solely on the work required to be assumptions and the valuation methodology applied to be appropriate, and the quantum of represented more than 2% of any of total group undertaken in the course of the audit of the revenue, group profit before tax or total group financial statements and from reading the the revaluation adjustments recorded were balanced.
We found that the disclosures assets.
For these remaining components, we Strategic report and the Directors report: performed analysis at an aggregated group proportionately describe the inherent degree we have not identified material misstatements of subjectivity in the estimates and the level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material in those reports: and potential impact on future periods of revisions in our opinion, those reports have been to these estimates.
We found the classification misstatement within these operations.
prepared in accordance with the Companies conclusions reached by the group in relation Act 2006. to these properties continued to be The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be appropriate.
covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The Group audit team approved the Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 7.0m 2015: 7.5m, Group Group profit Group total Number of Revenue before tax assets determined with reference to a benchmark of components % % % group profit before tax normalised to exclude Audits for group reporting purposes Three Asia, US, 91.0% 92.0% 93.0% this years impairments and revaluation UK adjustments on investment properties as Reviews of financial information including enquiry Two Middle East 4.0% 1.0% 3.0% disclosed in Note 7, of which it represents 5% and China 2015: 5%.
These Items are excluded due to Total 95.0% 93.0% 96.0% their volatility and for those items excluded from Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 69 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc only continued 5 We have nothing to report on the adequate accounting records have not been work we have undertaken and the basis of our disclosures of principal risks kept by the parent company, or returns opinions.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during adequate for our audit have not been received our audit, we have nothing material to add or from branches not visited by us: or Jonathan Downer Senior Statutory Auditor draw attention to in relation to: the parent company financial statements and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, the part of the Directors Remuneration Statutory Auditor the directors statement of Risks on pages 26 Report to be audited are not in agreement to 30, concerning the principal risks, their with the accounting records and returns: or Chartered Accountants management, and, based on that, the certain disclosures of directors remuneration directors assessment and expectations of the specified by law are not made: or 15 Canada Square Groups continuing in operation over the 1 we have not received all the information and London years to 3: or explanations we require for our audit E14 5GL the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going Under the Listing Rules we are required to 16 February 2017 review: concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the directors statements, set out on pages the matters on which we are required to 27 and 37, in relation to going concern and report by exception longer-term viability: and Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to the part of the Corporate Governance report to you if, based on the knowledge we Statement on page 40 relating to the acquired during our audit, we have identified companys compliance with the eleven other information in the annual report that provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate contains a material inconsistency with either Governance Code specified for our review.
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities In particular, we are required to report to you if: As explained more fully in the Directors we have identified material inconsistencies Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, between the knowledge we acquired during the directors are responsible for the preparation our audit and the directors statement that of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com by us to the Audit & Risk Committee report.
uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are incorporated into this report as if set out in full required to report to you if, in our opinion: and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the 70 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 M SOCIAL SINGAPORE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 71 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information online at: millenniumhotels.
com GRAND MILLENNIUM AUCKLAND 72 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Financial Statements 74 Consolidated income statement 75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 76 C onsolidated statement of financial position 78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 79 Consolidated statement of cash flows 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 C ompany statement of financial position 140 Company statement of changes in equity 141 N otes to the Company financial statements Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 73
