Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Opinion on financial statements of The financial statements comprise: Mitchells & Butlers plc the Group income statement: In our opinion: the Group statement of comprehensive income: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and Company balance sheets: the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 24 September 2016 the Group cash flow statement: and of the Groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the related sections 1 to 5 of the Group financial statements: and as adopted by the European Union: the related notes 1 to 12 of the Company financial statements.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of the pub estate: and Onerous lease provisions.
Our 2015 report included three other risks which are not included in our report this year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year is 8.7m which is approximately 5% of profit before tax before separately disclosed items.
Scoping A full scope audit has been performed in respect of the UK business, consistent with 2015.
Significant changes in our approach Periodic rotation takes place of the audit engagement partner and John Charlton has replaced the previous audit engagement partner for the 52 week period ending 24 September 2016.
In 2016, in addition to the changes in risks discussed above, we have adopted an audit approach which seeks to place greater reliance on the operating effectiveness of the control environment than in prior years.
This includes testing the operating effectiveness of controls relating to revenue and food and drink expenditure.
83 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of in respect of these matters.
accounting contained within section 1 to the financial statements and the We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
within the Strategic report on page 24.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability draw attention to in relation to: to continue as a going concern.
the Directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 20 to 24 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in section 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 24 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the accordance with those standards.
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
84 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Valuation of the pub estate risk the same as prior year As set out in section 3.1 the value of the pub estate is We worked with our property valuation specialists and We are in 4,423m 2015 4,242m.
managements external advisors to challenge the methodology agreement with and underlying assumptions used in the freehold and long the methodology Freehold and long leasehold leasehold pub estate valuation.
This included: chosen to revalue The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are the pub estate discussing and challenging the appropriateness of the described in section 3.1 to the financial statements.
and conclude valuation methodology adopted with managements there appears to external advisors: This is considered to be a significant risk due to the be no bias in judgements inherent within the valuation exercise and the benchmarking valuations to transaction activity in the the valuation.
The total net book value licensed retail property market, in order to confirm We concur that of revalued properties as at 24 September 2016, which whether the multiples being proposed were appropriate: the valuations does not include freehold properties excluded from the confirming that the sites inspected by the Groups valuer are suitable for revaluation as a result of investment plans, is 3,759m were representative of the pub estate as a whole, in terms inclusion in 2015 3,842m.
The revaluation exercise performed in the of brand and geography, to determine that the application the financial year has resulted in a net increase in book value of 136m of the multiple derived from the valuation of the inspected statements.
2015 decrease of 29m, which includes an impairment properties to the rest of the pub estate was appropriate: charge of 80m 2015 54m recognised in the income confirming that the fair maintainable trading levels used in statement.
The Groups accounting policy sets out that the the revaluation exercise were consistent with the Groups market value is determined using factors such as estimated policy and challenging the use of historical trading results fair maintainable trading levels and comparable market rather than forecasts in the determination of fair transactions.
20% of the freehold and long leasehold estate maintainable trade: has been inspected by the Groups external valuers, with reviewing the future projected income used in valuations the result of the inspection forming the basis for an where the valuation is not based on historical trading data, extrapolation across the remainder of the estate.
An for example, on converted or remodelled properties: and estimated multiple is derived for each of the Groups trading brands, which is then applied to the fair maintainable trade.
obtaining evidence to support the valuation of a sample of properties to which a spot valuation has been applied, for In specific circumstances where this approach does not example, through comparison to sales proceeds achieved fairly represent the underlying value of the property, for for similar recent sales transactions.
example if a site is loss making, a spot valuation is applied.
Additionally we: Short leasehold assessed the design and implementation of controls in The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are relation to the revaluation: described in section 3.1 to the financial statements.
tested the integrity of the data used in the valuations by agreeing a sample to source data: The total value of short leasehold properties as at 24 September 2016 is 174m 2015 182m.
Judgements used analytical tools to test the integrity of the revaluation in relation to expected trading levels, turnaround period model: and for underperforming sites and discount rates are applied assessed the competence, independence and integrity when calculating short leasehold property impairments.
The Group recorded an impairment charge of 8m We challenged the assumptions used by management within 2015 11m in the year.
the short leasehold impairment review.
This included: obtaining evidence to support managements assertion that properties can be successfully turned around where properties have not been impaired due to managements expectation that the performance of the properties will improve.
This included assessing the financial impact of the implementation of managements Board approved plans relating to certain brands, and a site by site review of other properties: testing the integrity of the information used within the model by agreeing inputs back to source data including historical results and lease terms: and assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate through recalculation and performing sensitivity analysis.
Additionally, we assessed the design and implementation of controls in relation to the short leasehold impairment review.
85 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Onerous lease provisions new risk As set out in section 3.3, property provisions are 9m Where onerous lease provisions have not been We agree that the 2015 10m of which 8.8m 2015 8.7m relates to recognised, despite historical results indicating that a level of onerous onerous lease provisions.
The accounting policy for provision may be required, we obtained evidence to lease provision is provisions is set out in section 3.3. support managements assertion that properties can be appropriate.
This included assessing the Loss-making short leasehold properties are reviewed by financial impact of the implementation of managements management to determine whether an onerous lease Board approved plans: provision is required: the key risk is completeness of the We tested a sample of loss-making short leasehold and onerous lease provision both in terms of the properties unlicensed properties to create an expectation of the where a provision has not been recognised and where there appropriate level of onerous lease provision for each is a provision, the level of the provision for each property.
property within our sample and compared our overall Judgements in relation to expected trading levels, expectation with the level of onerous lease provision.
turnaround period for underperforming sites and discount This included obtaining evidence that lease premiums rates are applied when assessing the level of onerous lease could be obtained for properties in good locations provision required.
based on lease premiums obtained for similar properties or offers already received: We tested the integrity of the information used within the onerous lease provision calculation by agreeing inputs back to source data including historical results and lease terms: We recalculated the historical turnaround period for properties which have previously been provided for to assess managements assumption for the turnaround period for underperforming sites: and We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate through recalculation and performing sensitivity analysis.
Additionally we assessed the design and implementation of controls in relation to the calculation of the onerous lease provision.
Last year our report included three other risks which are not included in our report this year for the following reasons: Orchid acquisition accounting: because the acquisition accounting was finalised in the year ended 26 September 2015: Tax provisions and the recognition of tax losses: because there are no significant open tax judgements that have not received clearance from HMRC: and Accounting for defined benefit schemes: as the requirement to recognise a liability due to the minimum funding requirement mitigates the impact of the key assumptions on the total liability recognised in the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 56.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
86 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 8.7m 2015 9.4m Basis for determining materiality Approximately 5% 2015 5% of profit before tax adjusted for net profit arising on property disposals, movements in the valuation of the property portfolio and short leasehold impairment 2015 same basis.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Profit before tax before separately disclosed items is a key measure used by the Group in reporting its results to allow a better understanding of the underlying trading of the Group and is also a key measure considered by analysts.
PBT before Component separately Group materiality range disclosed materiality 8.68m to 0.25m items 8.7m 181m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.435m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the An overview of the scope of our audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 435,000 2015 180,000 Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and reporting on qualitative grounds.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based We have increased the threshold for reporting audit differences from 2% on that assessment, we performed a full scope audit in respect of the to 5% in recognition of the historically low level of misstatements that UK retail operating business and the UK property business together have been reported to the Audit Committee and also due to the majority accounting for 99% 2015 100% of the Groups total assets, 97% of the Group being audited by the same team in Deloitte UK, such that 2015 97% of revenue and 98% 2015 98% of operating profit.
This we have enhanced visibility over the misstatements that are arising audit work was performed directly by the Group audit engagement during the course of our audit.
team, who also tested the consolidation process.
Given the relative size of the German business ALEX we consider the UK business provides We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we sufficient audit assurance over the Group balances.
This approach is identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial consistent with 2015. statements.
87 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued In responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, the Group Directors remuneration sought to place greater reliance on the operating effectiveness of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our Groups controls in relation to revenue and food and drink expenditure.
opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been Our audit work of the UK business was executed at levels of materiality made or the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
materiality and ranged from 0.25m to 8.68m 2015 0.4m to 7.5m.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Corporate governance statement Companies Act 2006 Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the part of the Report of Directors remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and We have nothing to report arising from our review.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Matters on which we are required to report by exception materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our in our opinion: audit: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require otherwise misleading.
for our audit: or In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, branches not visited by us: or balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
88 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Respective responsibilities of Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements and auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately statements in accordance with applicable law and International disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited include our dedicated professional standards review team and financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently independent partner reviews.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. we consider the implications for our report.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent John Charlton FCA permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Senior statutory auditor other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 21 November 2016 89 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
