"Independent Auditors Report to the members of Mitie Group plc Opinion on financial statements of Mitie Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"": and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 49.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 61.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 100 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 57-60 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 61 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 101 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Appropriateness of revenue and profit recognition We have tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls over the contract process including tendering controls, There are significant accounting judgements required contract monitoring, billings and approvals, the general IT to apply the groups revenue recognition policies to the longcontrols over the systems used to generate the information term complex contracts entered into by the group for the and Managements review and approval of the contract provision of project-based services, predominantly long term accounting applied.
We made a number of contract site visits and attended and The contractual arrangements that underpin the inspected minutes from certain meetings, forming a key part measurement of revenue in the period can be complex, with of the Groups risk and contract accounting process to fully judgements involved in the assessment of current and future challenge at a management level, the ongoing performance financial performance, which are relevant to the application on long term complex contracts.
of long term contract accounting principles.
We have assessed managements judgement regarding the We focused our testing on contracts with the following appropriate timing of revenue recognition, including when a characteristics: percentage of completion basis was applied.
We reviewed Contract related assets that are materially sensitive to significant contract terms for the conditions that underpin the changes in the forecast margin: revenue and the profit recognition assumptions.
We have Contracts that have the potential for material losses: and performed substantive tests and analytical procedures on Contracts with material judgements.
costs incurred to date and profitability forecasts.
This included The groups policy on revenue recognition is set out in challenging managements assumptions on the future costs note 1 to the group financial statements and revenue is including projected savings, the actions required to achieve analysed in note 3. these and by analysing historic performance.
Through this The matter is also disclosed as a critical Judgement analysis we assessed the underlying accounting treatment in note 2. of contract related assets and assessed the recoverability of these assets against future profitability.
Recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets in the We critically assessed managements position as to Healthcare division whether or not a reasonably possible change to key operating assumptions could result in an impairment.
In doing so, we In accordance with International Accounting Standard IAS have considered the output of the Groups budgeting process 36 Impairment of Assets and the Groups accounting policy, including the sensitivity of the key assumptions relating to management is required to carry out an annual impairment future growth in revenue and cost savings to be achieved.
We test of the Groups goodwill of 465.5m and intangible assets assessed whether the forecasts adopted in the impairment of 66.9m, review were board approved and consistent with those used In recent years there has been a reduction in headroom in the going concern and longer-term viability assessment.
in the goodwill relating to the Healthcare division CGU which In addition we challenged the appropriateness of the inclusion accounts for 107.2m of the carried goodwill and 11.3m of of cash flows relating to new initiatives noting these cashgroup intangible assets.
flows are in line with the Groups strategy of expansion Assessing whether an impairment exists under IAS 36 in the Healthcare sector.
We benchmarked the growth is complex.
Calculating the value in use for identified cashrates employed to available market data and engaged our generating units CGUs incorporates judgements based specialist valuation team to consider the appropriateness of on assumptions about future revenue growth, forecast the discount rate applied in the impairment review including cash flows, terminal growth rates and determination of the reviewing managements calculation and reconciliation.
appropriate discount rate and the appropriate inclusion of We performed sensitivity analysis in respect of each of new initiatives.
the key assumptions and reperformed managements The Groups policy on impairment of goodwill is disclosed in sensitivity disclosure.
Further details in respect of the carrying We also specifically reviewed the appropriateness of the value of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recoverability disclosures set out in note 13 to the accounts detailing the of individual cash-generating units and sensitivities of the key point at which the recoverable value of goodwill would equal assumptions are outlined in note 13. the carrying amount.
102 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Last year our report included presentation of other items on the consolidated income statement and Recoverability of trade receivables as key risks of material misstatement.
The risk of presentation of other items is not included in our report this year as there has been no material restructuring or businesses being exited in the year.
The risk of recoverability of trade receivables is also not included in our report this year as the ageing of trade receivables has improved.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 70-73.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 5.0 million 2015: 5.0 million which is based on 5.2% 2015: 12.0% of statutory profit before tax and which equates to 4.4% 2015: 4.4% of profit before tax before other items, 0.2% 2015: 0.2% of revenue and 1.2% 2015: 1.3% of equity.
Statutory profit before tax is used due to the reduction in other items in the year.
Profit was used as the benchmark for determining materiality as this is considered to be a key benchmark used by investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2015: 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the four divisions, reduced from five following the restructuring of the Energy Solutions division in 2015, and at head office.
All UK subsidiaries within the four divisions were subject to a full audit with the exception of recently acquired businesses and dormant entities.
The subsidiaries representing the principal business units account for 94.4% 2015: 100% of the groups net assets, 96.0% 2015: 98.2% of the groups revenue and 100% 2015: 100% of the groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 0.01 million to 3.5 million 2015: 0.01 million to 3.5 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the overseas entities, dormant entities and two recently acquired businesses not subject to audit.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to key locations including Bristol, London and Reading.
These visits have been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor meets with divisional management where the group audit scope was focused, at least once a year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
com 103 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Mitie Group plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
104 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
John Charlton FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 23 May 2016 www.
