136 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the combined and consolidated financial statements of Mondi Limited and its subsidiaries Group set out on pages 146 to 194, which comprise the combined and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31December 2016, and the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity and the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
In our opinion, the combined and consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31December 2016, and its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors Code of Professional Conduct for Registered Auditors IRBA Code and other independence requirements applicable to performing audits of financial statements in South Africa.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IRBA Code and in accordance with other ethical requirements applicable to performing audits in South Africa.
The IRBA Code is consistent with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Parts A and B.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements of the current period.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment As disclosed in note 11, goodwill of 681 million 2015: 590million Our audit work included evaluating key controls around the impairment is assessed annually for impairment using a value-in-use basis, while review process, and challenging the directors key assumptions used property, plant and equipment of 3,788million 2015: 3,554 million, in the cash flow forecasts included within the impairment models for as disclosed in note 10, are assessed for impairment where possible goodwill and property, plant and equipment with reference to historical impairment indicators are identified.
trading performance, market expectations and our understanding of the future utilisation of assets by the Group.
Particular focus was given to The Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and property, the incorporation of country risk within the Groups forecasts.
plant and equipment requires significant judgement, as described in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in particular forecast future In performing our audit procedures, we used internal valuation cash flows, future growth rates, the discount rates applied and the specialists to assess the discount rates applied by benchmarking determination of the level at which impairments should be assessed.
As such this has been noted as a key audit matter.
Key assumptions challenged include those related to the level at which impairment is assessed, being for property, plant and equipment the lowest level at which largely independent cash inflows can be identified and for goodwill the businesses that are expected to benefit from the acquisition, forecast future cash flows, future growth rates and the discount rates applied.
We also evaluated the directors assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment models to reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions and considered the disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment reviews.
We concluded that the levels at which impairments were assessed were appropriate and that the directors have an appropriate process for determining the assumptions used in the respective models.
In the context of the inherent uncertainties disclosed, the calculated recoverable values of the respective assets or group of assets, determined with reference to the forecast future cash flows, future growth rates and discount rates applied, are considered collectively to be within a reasonable range of the possible outcomes.
The disclosure in relation to the impairment reviews and the assumptions applied is considered comprehensive.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 137 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment The Group continues to invest in significant capital projects with capital Our audit work included assessing the nature of property, plant and expenditure of 446 million during the year ended 31 December 2016, equipment capitalised by the Group to test the validity of amounts as detailed in note 10, of which 99 million related to the Groups major capitalised and evaluating whether assets capitalised meet the capital projects, including those in wiecie Poland and South Africa.
recognition criteria set out in IAS 16.
The significant level of capital expenditure requires consideration of Our audit work considered whether capitalisation of assets ceased the nature of costs incurred to ensure that capitalisation of property, when the asset is in the location and condition necessary for it to be plant and equipment meets the specific recognition criteria in IAS 16, capable of operating in the manner intended by the Group and that a Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 16, specifically in relation to consistent approach was applied by the Group across all significant assets constructed by the Group, and the application of the directors operations.
judgement in assigning appropriate useful economic lives.
As a result, Furthermore, we challenged the useful economic lives assigned with this was noted as a key audit matter, with the risk focused on certain reference to the Groups historical experience, our understanding of key projects, where the risk of material misstatement was deemed the future utilisation of assets by the Group and by reference to the higher as a result of the complexity of the specific project.
depreciation policies applied by third parties operating similar assets.
The capitalisation of assets in the year, and the useful economic lives assigned, were assessed to be appropriate based on the evidence obtained.
We did not identify any assets capitalised in prior years where we considered the useful economic lives originally assigned needed revision in the year.
Taxation The Group has operations in a number of geographical locations and as Our audit work, which involved taxation audit specialists within such is subject to multiple tax jurisdictions, giving rise to complexity in specific locations where local tax knowledge was required, included accounting for the Groups taxation.
the assessment of taxation assets and liabilities, with particular consideration and challenge given to the judgements taken in relation In particular, as detailed in note 7, the existence of tax incentives toaccounting for tax incentives, corporate tax provisions and the available to the Group and historical tax losses give rise to judgement recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
in determining the appropriate tax charge for the Group and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
There are also cross-border In addition, we involved transfer pricing specialists to assess the transactions which give rise to transfer pricing related risks.
appropriateness of the Groups assessment of their exposure to transfer pricing related risks.
Due to the level of complexity in assessing the relevant tax incentives available to the Group and the level of directors judgement required to Our assessment included the review of applicable third-party evidence determine the appropriate Group tax charge, this has been identified as and correspondence with tax authorities.
In relation to deferred tax assets, we challenged the appropriateness of the directors judgements of the availability of future appropriate taxable profits in assessing whether to recognise deferred tax assets.
Based on the procedures performed, the tax balances recorded have been calculated on an appropriate basis, with an adequate allowance being made for uncertainty in the recovery of deferred tax assets and transfer pricing risks.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the Directors report included in the Governance section of the Integrated report, the DLC audit committees report and the Integrated report, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditors report.
The other information does not include the combined and consolidated financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the combined and consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance or conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
138 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Responsibilities of the directors for the combined and consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the combined and consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of combined and consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the combined and consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined and consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these combined and consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: e Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the combined and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures in response to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
e Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
e Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors.
e Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the combined and consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
e Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the combined and consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the combined and consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
e Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the combined and consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the DLC audit committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the DLC audit committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the DLC audit committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the combined and consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 139 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In terms of the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors IRBA Rule published in Government Gazette Number 39475 dated 4 December 2015, we report that Deloitte & Touche has been the auditor of Mondi Limited for 49 years.
Deloitte & Touche Registered Auditors Per Shelly Nelson Partner 22February2017 Building 1 and 2, Deloitte Place, The Woodlands Riverwalk Office Park, Block B Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, 41 Matroosberg Road, Ashlea Gardens X6, Pretoria, Republic of South Africa Republic of South Africa National Executive: LL Bam Chief Executive Officer TMM Jordan Deputy Chief Executive Officer MJ Jarvis Chief Operating Officer GM Pinnock Audit N Sing Risk Advisory NB Kader Tax TP Pillay Consulting S Gwala BPaaS K Black Clients & Industries JK Mazzocco Talent & Transformation MJ Comber Reputation & Risk TJBrown Chairman of the Board A full list of partners and directors is available on request B-BBEE rating: Level 2 contributor in terms of the Chartered Accountancy Profession Sector Code Associate of Deloitte Africa, a member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Partner and Registered Auditor 140 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc Opinion on financial statements of Mondi plc In our opinion: e the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Mondi plc parent companys affairs as at 31December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: e the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: e the Mondi plc parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework: and e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined and consolidated and Mondi plc parent company statements of financial position, the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows, the combined and consolidated and Mondi plc parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 34 of the combined and consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 9 of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: e impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment: e capitalisation of property, plant and equipment: and e taxation.
The risks identified have remained consistent with our prior year audit report.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 44 million which was determined on the basis of5% of profit before tax and special items.
Scoping 17 locations were subject to full scope audit, and a further 29 were subject to specified audit procedures.
In aggregate the locations subject to audit procedures represents 85% of the Groupsrevenue.
Significant changes in Based on our risk assessment procedures and consideration of the composition of the Group and its our approach underlying operations, there were no significant changes to our audit approach, basis for materiality orscope.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for We confirm that we are Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our independent of the Group and other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 141 Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the We confirm that we have appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the nothing material to add or financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group, both draw attention to in respect of contained within the Strategic report on page 39. these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We agreed with the directors relation to: adoption of the going e the directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the concern basis of accounting principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future and we did not identify any performance, solvency or liquidity: such material uncertainties.
However, because not all e the disclosures on pages 32 to 38 that describe those risks and explain how they are being future events or conditions can managed or mitigated: be predicted, this statement e the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered is not a guarantee as to the it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their Groups ability to continue as a identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a going concern.
period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and e the directors explanation on page 39 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These risks are unchanged from the prior year.
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment Risk description Goodwill of 681 million 2015: 590 million is assessed annually for impairment using a value-in-use basis, whilst specifically identified property, plant and equipment of 3,788 million 2015: 3,554 million are assessed for impairment where possible impairment indicators are identified.
The Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and property, plant and equipment requires significant management judgement, as described in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in particular in relation to the forecast future cash flows, including appropriate reflection of country specific risk, future growth rates and the discount rates applied and the determination of the level at which impairments should be assessed.
Refer to notes 10 and 11 for the disclosures in respect of property, plant and equipment and goodwill respectively, and note 34 for the Group accounting policy.
How the scope Our audit procedures included evaluating the design and implementation of key controls around the impairment of our audit review processes, and challenging managements key assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts included responded to the within the impairment models for goodwill and property, plant and equipment with reference to historical trading risk performance, market expectations and our understanding of the future utilisation of assets by the Group.
Particular focus was given to the incorporation of country risk within the Groups forecasts.
In performing our audit procedures, we used internal valuation specialists to assess the discount rates applied by benchmarking against independent data.
Key assumptions challenged include those related to the level at which impairment is assessed, being for property, plant and equipment the lowest level at which largely independent cash inflows can be identified and for goodwill the businesses that are expected to benefit from the acquisitions, forecast future cash flows, future growth rates and the discount rates applied.
We also evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment models to reasonably possible changes and considered the disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment reviews.
Key observations We concluded that the level at which impairment was assessed was appropriate and that management has an appropriate process for determining the assumptions used in the respective models.
In the context of the inherent uncertainties disclosed, the calculated recoverable values of the respective assets or group of assets, determined with reference to the future forecast cash flows, future growth rates and discount rates applied, are considered collectively to be within a reasonable range of the possible outcomes.
142 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment continued Key observations We are satisfied that the disclosures made in relation to impairment tests are compliant with relevant continued accounting standards.
Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment Risk description The Group continues to invest in significant capital projects with capital expenditure of 446 million 2015: 593 million during the year ended 31 December 2016, of which 99 million related to the Groups major capital projects, including those in wiecie Poland and South Africa.
The significant level of capital expenditure requires consideration of the nature of costs incurred to ensure that capitalisation of property, plant and equipment meets the specific recognition criteria in IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 16, specifically in relation to assets constructed by the Group, and the application of management judgement in assigning appropriate useful economic lives.
The risk was focused on certain key projects, where the risk of material misstatement was deemed higher as a result of the complexity of the specific project.
Refer to note 10 for the disclosure of property, plant and equipment and note 34 for the Group accountingpolicy.
How the scope Our audit work included evaluating the design and implementation of key controls around the capitalisation of our audit process, assessing the nature of property, plant and equipment capitalised by the Group to test the validity responded to of amounts capitalised and evaluating whether assets capitalised meet the recognition criteria set out in therisk IAS 16.
Our work considered whether capitalisation of assets ceased when the asset was in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Group and that a consistent approach was applied by the Group across all significant operations.
Furthermore, we challenged the useful economic lives assigned with reference to the Groups historical experience, our understanding of the future utilisation of assets by the Group and the depreciation policies applied by third parties operating similar assets.
Key observations The capitalisation of assets in the year, and the useful economic lives assigned, were assessed to be appropriate.
Taxation Risk description The Group has operations in a number of geographical locations and as such is subject to multiple tax jurisdictions, giving rise to complexity in accounting for the Groups taxation.
In particular, as detailed in note 7, the existence of tax incentives available to the Group and historical tax losses give rise to judgement in determining the appropriate tax charge for the Group and recognition of deferred tax assets.
There are also cross border transactions which give rise to transfer pricing-related risks.
Refer to note 7 for the disclosure and note 34 for the Group accounting policy.
How the scope Our audit work, which involved taxation audit specialists within specific locations where local tax of our audit knowledge was required, included evaluating the design and implementation of controls in respect of responded to taxation, the assessment of taxation assets and liabilities, with particular consideration and challenge therisk given to the judgements taken in relation to accounting for tax incentives, corporate tax provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
In addition, we involved transfer pricing specialists to assess the appropriateness of the Groups assessment of their exposure to transfer pricing-related risks.
Our assessment included the review of applicable third-party evidence and correspondence with taxauthorities.
In relation to deferred tax assets, we challenged the appropriateness of managements judgements of the availability of future appropriate taxable profits in assessing whether to recognise deferred tax assets.
Key observations We determined that the tax balances recorded have been calculated on an appropriate basis, with an adequate allowance being made for uncertainty in the recovery of deferred tax assets and transfer pricingrisks.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the DLC audit committee as discussed on pages 96 and 97.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 143 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Group materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 44 million 2015: 36 million.
Basis for determining The chosen benchmark was 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax and special items.
Special items materiality are defined by the Group as those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance by theGroup.
Rationale for the Since special items are individually significant in nature, and we consider profit before tax and special benchmark applied items tobe a key driver of the business and a focus for shareholders, we have concluded that it isappropriate to exclude these items in determining materiality.
The materiality chosen equates tobelow 2% 2015: 2% of equity.
Group materiality profit before tax 881 million 44 Group materiality 44 million 36 Component materiality range 4 million to 36 million Audit committee reporting threshold 0.9 million 881m 0.9 We agreed with the DLC audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences identified in excess of 900,000 2015: 720,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the DLC audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Mondi Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi plc and Mondi Limited, which operate under a DLC structure.
The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi plc and its subsidiaries, and Mondi Limited and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, the financial statements of Mondi Group are prepared and reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single reporting entity.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused primarily on the audit work at 17 locations 2015: 16 locations from across Mondi Group, which were subject to a full audit completed using materiality which was set at a level lower than Group materiality.
The materiality applied to the audit of these components ranged from 4 million to 36 million 2015: 3 million to 28 million.
These 17 locations 2015: 16 locations represent the principal business units and account for 65% 2015: 64% of the Groups revenue.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
A further 29 locations 2015: 27 locations were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 29 locations 2015: 27 locations represent a further 20% 2015: 19% of the Groups revenue.
From the above audit scope, in aggregate the locations subject to audit procedures represents 85% 2015:83% of the Groups revenue.
The changes in the scoping above are due to new acquisitions in the year.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits the 10 operating locations 2015: 10 operating locations that have been assessed as the most financially significant to the Group at least once every three years, or more frequently where other indicators are identified.
In the current year, a senior member of the Group audit team therefore visited certain of the Groups operations in Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, South Africa and the United States.
144 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc For all full scope locations, we discussed risk assessment and audit planning with the component team before the commencement of our work.
Furthermore, for each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team also discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining seven locations 2015: six locations where full audits were completed, we discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team, reviewed audit working papers in relation to key issues and discussed key matters with divisional management where considered necessary in forming our Group audit opinion.
In relation to the 29 locations 2015: 27 locations which were subject to an audit of specified account balances, we discussed the results of these businesses and accounting matters arising through our involvement in divisional meetings with management.
A t the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out Revenue coverage analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks Full scope audit procedures 65% of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject toaudit or audit of specified account balances.
specified audit procedures 20% Desktop review procedures 15% 6,662m Opinion on other matters prescribed by the UK Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: e the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006: e the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and e the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or thesematters.
e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for ouraudit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or e the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report disclosuresof directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors arising from thesematters.
remunerationreport to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement We have nothing to report relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 145 Our duty to read other information in the Integrated report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in We confirm that we ouropinion, information in the Integrated report is: have not identified any such inconsistencies or e materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or misleading statements.
e apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or e otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement thatthey consider the Integrated report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Integrated report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to theDLCaudit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Integrated report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22February2017
