Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit: Overview Materiality: 4.4m 2015: 4.0m Group Financial Statements as a whole 4.8% of profit before tax 2015: 4.7% of normalised profit before tax normalised to exclude MoneySavingExpert.
com contingent remuneration costs Coverage 100% 2015: 100% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 Recurring risks Revenue Capitalised software and development costs 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 82 to 111.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows unchanged from 2015 : The risk Our response Revenue Data capture Our procedures included: 316.4 million 2015: Revenue recognition is considered to be a significant - Control design and reperformance: Testing 281.7 million audit risk because of the complexities involved in the the design and operating effectiveness of the recording of clicks.
general IT control environment for the click Refer to page 48 Audit recording system.
In addition, our own IT Committee Report, page Subjective estimate specialists re-perform click-throughs in the live 87 accounting policy Judgement is required to estimate unbilled revenue environment to assess whether the system was and page 99 financial at the period end.
Revenue is recognised recording clicks in the correct period.
predominantly from internet lead generation click - Tests of details: Agree total revenue recognised based revenues.
Accrued revenue as at period end to cash receipts received in the year, with is recorded based on an estimation of the likely reference to the movement of trade receivables, number of successful conversions.
accrued revenue and output VAT.
Selecting a statistical sample of the year end accrued revenue and agreeing these back to post year end confirmatory evidence, including invoices and cash receipts to assess the accuracy of the estimate.
- Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of complexity involved in respect of click-based revenue recognition.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Only continued The risk Our response Capitalised software Accounting treatment Our procedures included: and development costs The criteria for capitalising software and - Control design: Testing the operating 37.8 million: 2015: development costs incurred include assessing effectiveness of controls over purchase order 28.1million whether completion of the related asset is and invoice authorisation of projects, to technically feasible.
The Directors apply judgement evidence the appropriate level of approval over Refer to page 48 Audit in this respect.
total project spend and expenditure being Committee Report, page capital in nature.
88 accounting policy Forecast-based valuation - Accounting analysis: Comparing a statistical and pages 96 to 98 Software and development project costs are sample of costs capitalised to external invoices financial disclosures.
capitalised to the extent that future economic to assess whether costs are appropriately benefits are expected to be generated by the capitalised, by reference to the recognition projects to which they relate.
This requires criteria of the applicable accounting standards.
judgement as to whether sufficient profitability will We also challenged the Groups assessment of be generated to recover the costs capitalised.
The the technical feasibility of the related assets Directors make this assessment using a return on based on discussions with Capital Project investment calculation.
The key inputs in that managers and inspected Board approved calculation, specifically revenue growth, ability to business cases, submitted prior to the costs cross sell products and timing and amount of capital being incurred, outlining the proposed features expenditure, all require significant estimation and and expected completion dates.
- Our experience: Challenge the Groups assessment of impairment indicators based on our understanding of project progress and performance to date obtained from our other audit procedures.
- Benchmarking assumptions: Critically assess the reasonableness of the assumptions including assessing the historical accuracy of the Directors forecasting and corroborating key inputs to internal performance reporting and knowledge gained performing our other audit procedures.
- Assessing transparency: Evaluating the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the judgements made that economic benefit will be derived from the projects and the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit profit before tax Materiality Group Group profit Group total revenue before tax assets 91.3m 4.4m 2015: 4.0m 2015: profit before tax normalised to exclude MoneySavingExpert.
com 4.4m contingent remuneration 100% 100% 100% Whole financial costs 79.8m 2015 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% statements materiality 2015: 4.0m Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 4.0m 91.3m Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 Range of materiality at 6 components 0.1m to 4.0m 2015: 7 components 0.1m to 3.6m 0.22m Misstatements reported profit before tax to the Audit Committee 2015: 0.2m Group materiality Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.4 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 91.3 million, of which it represents 4.8% 2015: 4.7% of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude MoneySavingExpert.
80 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 100% 100% 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% Full scope for Group audit purpose 2016 Full scope for Group audit purpose 2015 Strategic Report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Finan inanc ci ial al S St tat ate em me ent nts s We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.22 million 2015: 0.20 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 6 2015: 7 reporting components, we subjected 6 2015: 7 to full scope audits for Group purposes, all of which were performed by the Group audit team.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated above.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the Financial Statements and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability Statement on pages 25 and 26, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 2 of the Financial Statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 25 and 26, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 45 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 27 February 2017 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 81
