Financial Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Monks Investment Trust PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Report on the Financial Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Our opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion, The Monks Investment Trust PLCs Financial We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the Statements the Financial Statements : risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for at 30 April 2016 and of its net loss and cash flows for the year example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved then ended: making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our What we have audited audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified The Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2016: we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this the Income Statement for the year then ended: context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and Income from We assessed the accounting policy for the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary investments income recognition for compliance with of significant accounting policies and other explanatory accounting standards and the AIC SORP Refer to page 24 Audit information.
and performed testing to check that income Committee Report, Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the had been accounted for in accordance with page 37 Accounting this stated accounting policy.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
Policies and pages 38 We found that the accounting policies These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and are and 41 notes.
implemented were in accordance with identified as audited.
Income from accounting standards and the AIC SORP, investments which The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the and that income has been accounted for consists of dividend preparation of the Financial Statements is United Kingdom Accounting in accordance with the stated accounting income, interest Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard policy.
income and gains applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law losses on investments We understood and assessed the design United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
is a key area of focus and implementation of key controls due to these figures surrounding income recognition.
Our audit approach representing a This included considering the relevant significant element of controls tested and reported upon through Overview the Income Statement.
the Baillie Gifford & Co AAF01 06 and Materiality We focused on the ISAE3402 Type II Reporting Accountants accuracy and Assurance Report on Internal Controls for Overall materiality: 10.1 million which represents 1% of net completeness of the year ended 30 April 2015 and enquiries assets.
dividend income of Internal Audit and other management of recognition and its Baillie Gifford & Co.
Audit scope presentation in the In addition, we tested dividend receipts by The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and Income Statement as agreeing the dividend rates from a sample has engaged Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned set out in the of investments to independent third party subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as the Companys Alternative requirements of The sources.
No misstatements were identified Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford Association of by our testing which required reporting to & Co Limited has delegated the investment management function Investment Companies those charged with governance.
to Baillie Gifford & Co the Manager.
Statement of To test for completeness, we tested that the Recommended We conducted our audit of the Financial Statements at Baillie appropriate dividends had been received in Practice the AIC the year by reference to independent data Gifford & Co. SORP.
of dividends declared by a sample of We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types This is because investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third incomplete or testing did not identify any unrecorded parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, inaccurate income dividends.
and the industry in which the Company operates.
could have a material We tested the allocation and presentation of impact on the dividend income between the income and Areas of Focus companys net asset capital return columns of the Income value and dividend Income from investments.
Statement in line with the requirements set cover.
Special dividends in Valuation and existence of investments.
the year were immaterial at 1.9m.
Changes to disclosure due to year one adoption of FRS 102.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 29 Financial Report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income from The gains losses on investments held at fair Presentation and The Financial Statements for the year ended investments contd value comprise realised and unrealised Disclosure FRS 102 30 April 2016 have been prepared for the gains losses.
We have assessed We also focused on The Financial that the changes applicable to the Company gains losses on For realised gains losses, we tested disposal Statements are have been implemented, this includes the investments held at fair proceeds by agreeing the proceeds to bank prepared in compliance amendments to the disclosure of fair value value due to the statements and sale agreements and we with the AIC SORP, hierarchy information and presentational subjective nature of the re-performed the calculation of a sample of Companies Act and aspects relating to the Cash Flow valuation of unquoted realised gains losses.
No other significant changes investments.
Financial Statements For unrealised gains losses, we obtained an have arisen from the adoption of the new disclosures and understanding of the valuation process as standards.
set out in the valuation and existence area of The new UK Corporate Governance Code focus.
We tested the book cost As this is the first year was published in September 2014, with a reconciliation, including testing on a sample FRS 102 was further update published on 23 October basis, the realised gains, purchases and implemented, we 2015.
The new Code requires disclosure of sales to agree the total unrealised gains focused on whether the a viability statement, a robust assessment of losses incurred during the period.
Financial Statements risks and a new-style going concern were presented in No misstatements were identified by our confirmation in the Annual Report.
We have compliance with FRS testing which required reporting to those reviewed the information provided in the 102 as well as the charged with governance.
Annual Report and Accounts and no issues compliance of AIC We also tested a sample of journals to were noted in disclosure of corporate SORP, Companies Act ascertain whether any inappropriate journals governance.
2006 and the Listing had been posted to income.
identified through our testing in this area.
Valuation and We tested the valuation of the investment How we tailored the audit scope existence of portfolio as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed investments for listed debt and equity investments enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Refer to page 24 Audit we agreed the prices used in the Statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments Committee Report, valuation to independent third party within the Company, the involvement of the Manager, the accounting page 37 Accounting sources: processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company Policies and page 40 for unlisted debt investments, we operates.
agreed the valuation to broker quotes or The investment agreed the price to other third party As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment portfolio at the sources: in place at the Manager to the extent relevant to our audit.
This year-end comprises of for the two unlisted equity investments, assessment involved obtaining and reading the relevant control listed equity we understood the basis of the valuation reports, issued by the independent auditors of the Manager in investments methodology, reviewed the unlisted accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such 1,065m, unlisted valuation committee minutes where the work, to gain an understanding of the Managers control environment debt 7m and valuation was agreed, and reviewed the and to consider the operating and accounting structure at the unlisted equity 8m.
underlying documentation used to Manager.
Following this assessment, we applied professional We focused on the support the valuation used, such as judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each valuation and existence external third party valuations or draft balance in the Financial Statements.
of investments because capital statements for the investment.
investments represent No misstatements were identified by our Materiality the principal element of testing.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of the net asset value as We tested the existence of all types of disclosed on the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
investment in the portfolio by agreeing the Balance Sheet in the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to holdings for investments to an independent Financial Statements determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of custodian confirmation from Bank of New York Mellon SA NV.
No differences were our audit procedures on the individual Financial Statement line items identified.
and disclosure, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 10.1 million 2015 10.2 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally benchmark applied accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
30 Annual Report 2016 Financial Report We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them The Directors assessment of the prospects of the company misstatements identified during our audit above 505,000 2015 and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 512,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our liquidity of the company view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors The Directors confirmation on page 15 of the We have nothing statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern.
We have Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 material to add nothing to report having performed our review.
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust or to draw assessment of the principal risks facing the attention to.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have company, including those that would threaten its anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the business model, future performance, solvency or Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to liquidity.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
We have nothing those risks and explain how they are being material to add As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded managed or mitigated.
or to draw that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing attention to.
The going concern basis presumes that the The Directors explanation on page 16 of the company has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the We have nothing Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 material to add Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the of the Code, as to how they have assessed the or to draw Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have prospects of the company, over what period they attention to.
concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is have done so and why they consider that period to appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be appropriate, and their statement as to whether be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the they have a reasonable expectation that the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of Other required reporting their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or Consistency of other information assumptions.
Companies Act 2006 opinion Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial principal risks facing the company and the Directors statement in Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of ISAs UK & Ireland reporting making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with opinion: the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the information in the Annual Report is: We have no course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having exceptions to materially inconsistent with the information in the performed our review.
audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or Adequacy of accounting records and information and materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of explanations received the company acquired in the course of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in performing our audit: or our opinion: otherwise misleading.
we have not received all the information and explanations we the statement given by the Directors on page 28, in We have no require for our audit: or accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Governance Code the Code, that they consider report.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the visited by us: ora information necessary for members to assess the the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Companys position and performance, business Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our accounting records and returns.
knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 24 and We have no 25, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to describing the work of the Audit Committee does report.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 31 Financial Report Directors remuneration We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Financial opinion Statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit Other Companies Act 2006 reporting evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited this responsibility.
Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Corporate governance statement knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor the audit for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Edinburgh set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 15 June 2016 of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Notes The following notes relate to financial statements published on a website and are not included in the printed version of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Managers for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys page of the Managers website: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website: and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
