Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Companys return for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited Murray International Trust PLCs financial statements comprise: Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2016 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2016 Related notes 1 to 21 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment.
Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio Audit scope All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Materiality Materiality of 14.5m which represents 1% of equity shareholders funds 2015: 10.9m Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those with the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate income We have performed the following The results of our procedures are: recognition through failure to procedures: recognise proper income We have no matters to communicate with entitlements or apply appropriate We reviewed the Administrators and respect to our assessment of the accounting treatment as the Managers processes and controls Administrators and Managers processes described on page 42 in the Report surrounding revenue recognition and controls surrounding revenue of the Audit Committee including special dividends.
The investment income receivable We agreed a sample of dividends We noted no issues in agreeing the sample by the Company during the period receipts to the corresponding of dividend and fixed interest receipts to an directly drives the Companys announcement made by the investee independent source, recalculating these Murray International Trust PLC 45 ability to make a dividend payment company and agreed cash received amounts and agreeing them to the bank to shareholders.
The investment to bank statements.
income receivable for the year to 31 December 2016 was 56.3m from We recalculated a sample of fixed We noted no issues in agreeing the sample dividends and 20.8m from fixed interest receipts based on coupon of investee company announcements and interest 2015: 51.2m and 15.6m details from an independent source coupon details to the income entitlements respectively as disclosed in Note 3 and agreed cash received to bank recorded by the Company and we are to the financial statements.
satisfied that in each case, the dividend Special dividends by their nature obligation arose prior to 31 December 2016. require the exercise of judgement as We agreed, on a sample basis, We noted no issues in our recalculation of to whether the income receivable investee company dividend the effective interest rate on fixed interest should be classified as revenue or announcements and coupon details income.
from an independent source to the income recorded by the Company.
We noted no issues in recalculating the During the year, the Company accrued dividends and fixed interest, received 8 special dividends 2015: We have recalculated, on a sample agreeing a sample to subsequent bank 16, with an aggregate value of basis, the effective interest rate on statements, and confirming the income 2.2m 2015: 2.1m.
All special fixed interest income.
obligation arose prior to 31 December 2016. dividends were treated as revenue.
For all dividends accrued at year end, We agreed with the allocation of the special There is also a risk that we reviewed the investee company dividends in our sample to revenue.
inappropriate journal entries applied announcements to assess whether to the income account could result the dividend obligation arose prior to We noted no issues in agreeing the sample in a misstatement of income.
31 December 2016. of income journal entries back to the income report and details to an independent source.
For all fixed interest accrued at year end, we recalculated the expected We noted no issues with the application of amounts based on coupon details the Companys accounting policies with from an independent source to respect to revenue recognition including assess whether the fixed interest was special dividends, or in compliance with FRS due as at 31 December 2016.
We agreed a sample of accrued dividends and fixed interest to post year end bank statements to assess the recoverability of these amounts.
We reviewed the income report for all material dividends and checked these against an independent source to determine if any were special.
We also reviewed the acquisitions and disposals report for any potential special dividends treated as capital to assess if any should be treated as revenue.
None of the special dividends received during the year were material to our audit however we reviewed the treatment on a sample basis.
We agreed, on a sample basis, income journal entries on the journal download for the year back to the income report and the details from 46 Annual Report 2016 the income report to the corresponding announcement made by the investee company and coupon details from an independent source.
We reviewed the Companys accounting policies with respect to revenue recognition including special dividends to ensure that these have been applied as stated throughout the year and are in line with FRS 102 and the AIC SORP.
Incorrect valuation and existence We performed the following The results of our procedures are: of the investment portfolio as procedures: described on page 42 of the Audit We have no matters to communicate with Committee Report.
We reviewed the Administrators and respect to our assessment of the the Managers processes and controls Administrators and Managers processes The valuation of the portfolio at 31 surrounding investment pricing and and controls surrounding investment pricing December 2016 was 1,618.9m purchases and sales.
2015: 1,273.1m, consisting of 1,351.0m of equities 2015: For all investments in the portfolio, For all investments, we noted no material 1,107.4m and 267.9m of fixed we compared the market values and differences in market value or exchange income 2015: 165.7m.
exchange rates applied to an rates when compared to an independent independent source.
The valuation of the assets held in the investment portfolio is the key We agreed the Companys We noted no differences between the driver of the Companys net asset investments to the independent Custodian and Depositary confirmations and value and total return.
Incorrect confirmations received from the the Companys underlying financial records.
asset pricing or a failure to maintain Companys Custodian and proper legal title of the assets held Depositary as at 31 December 2016.
We noted no issues with the application of by the Company could have a the Companys accounting policy with significant impact on the portfolio We reviewed the Companys respect to valuation, or compliance with FRS valuation and, therefore, the return investment portfolio to confirm the 102 and the AIC SORP.
correct application of the Companys accounting policy, FRS102 and the AIC SORP with respect to valuation.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to management and performance fees payable by the Company for investment management services not being calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the investment management agreement.
In the current year with have not included this risk because the performance fee was removed from the remuneration arrangements for investment management services with effect from 1 January 2016 and the calculation of management fees is considered to be of a straightforward nature.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Murray International Trust PLC 47 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC continued Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Company to be 14.5m 2015: 10.9m, which is 1% of equity shareholders funds.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of equity as that is the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Company.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Company should be 75% of planning materiality, being 10.9m 2015: 8.2m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicated a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we also applied a separate testing threshold of 3.6m 2015: 3.1m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the revenue return on ordinary activities before tax.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.7m 2015: 0.5m which is 5% of planning materiality as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 44 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 48 Annual Report 2016 accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no exceptions Ireland reporting financial information in the annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no exceptions 2006 reporting environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no to report.
material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements the Directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page 34, to report.
and longer-term viability, set out on page 10: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Murray International Trust PLC 49 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC continued Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing material to the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have add or to carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the draw entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future attention to.
performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Caroline Mercer Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 10 March 2017 50 Annual Report 2016 Financial Statements Subject to approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 16.0p, an increase of 2.2% from last year 2015: 46.5p.
After accounting for the payment of the final dividend the surplus revenue of approximately 4.85 million will be transferred to the Companys brought forward revenue reserves.
Inmarsat plc is a leading provider of global mobile satellite communications services.
