Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC Opinion on Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2016 and of the Groups and the parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Cash Flow Statement: the Group and parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes 1 to 39 for the Group Financial Statements: and the related notes 1 to 19 for the parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Goodwill and fixed asset impairment: North American insurance and other claims provisions: Pensions accounting: and Fuel hedge accounting.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 8.9 million which was determined on the basis ofnormalised profit before tax, including the impact of the UK Rail division which was reported as a discontinued operation in the current year due to the post year-end sale of NXET.
Materiality represents 5.1%of this profit metric.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed on a divisional sub-consolidation basis for Rail, UK Bus, UK Coach, North America, and Spain and Morocco.
Specified audit procedures have been performed over certain revenue and cost balances within the Bahrain joint venture.
Full scope audit procedures have been performed on the parent Company Financial Statements.
All other parts of the Group have been subject to analytical review procedures.
The five operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% 2015: 100% of Grouprevenue and Group operating profit and 99% 2015: 99% of Group net assets Significant changes We have not reported on tax provisions as a key audit risk in the current year.
This is a result of the level inour approach ofassociated risk having reduced significantly following the closure of a number of ongoing tax enquiries.
ANNUAL REPOR AT A nnuN al R D A eC po CrO t a UnN d A TS 2 cco 0u 16 nt s 2 N0 A1 T 6I O N Na AtL E ionX al E PRxE pS re S G ss G RO roU uP P p PLC LC 12 121 1 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Going concern and the directors assessment We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw oftheprincipal risks that would threaten the attention to in respect of these matters.
solvencyorliquidity of the Group We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee tothe Financial Statements and the directors statement on as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
thelonger-term viability of the Group contained within the Group Finance Directors Review on page 45.
We are required to state whether we have anything material toadd or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facingthe Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 36-37 that describe those risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to beappropriate, and their statement as to whether they havea reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We confirm that we are independent of the Group and We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting wehavefulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we accordancewith those standards.
We also confirm are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other wehavenot provided any of the prohibited non-audit ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
servicesreferred to in those standards.
12 1222 N Na AtT io IO na Nl E AL E xprX eP ss G RES ro S G up P RO LC UP P AnLC nua A l RN ep No U rt a AL R nd A EP cO co Ru T A nts 2 ND A 016CCOUNTS 2016 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
How the scope of our Risk description audit responded to the risk Key observations Goodwill and other non-current asset impairment Our procedures for challenging We determined that there is Total goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and managements methodology and currently sufficient headroom equipment at 31 December 2016 were 2,532.2 million.
assumptions focussed on the for both the Spain and Themost significant balances relate to the Spain and Groups interests in Spain Morocco division and the Moroccodivision 1,127.9 million and the North America andMorocco and North North America division division 1,163.0 million.
Americaand included: suchthatwe concur with management that no There is a risk surrounding the recoverability of these balances, assessing the appropriateness impairment is required.
as assessed annually by management as part of their goodwill ofanychanges to assumptions impairment review using discounted cashflows on a value in since theprior period: Whilst we note that both use basis.
validating the integrity of the businesses are reliant on impairment models through thelong-term economic The key judgements in assessing goodwill and other nontesting of the mechanical performance of their current assets for impairment are the discount rate and the accuracy and verifying the respective territories, perpetual growth rate used.
The value in use models are application of the input weconclude that the highlysensitive to changes in these rates, both of which assumptions: assumptions applied inthe mustreflect a long-term view of underlying growth in each understanding the underlying impairment models, when respective economy.
process used to determine the risk taken inaggregate, are We note that estimating a value in use is inherently judgemental, adjusted cash flow projections: withinour acceptable range.
and a range of assumptions can reasonably be applied in challenging the cash flow forecasts determining an appropriate discount rate and perpetual growth with reference to historical rate to use.
forecasts, actual performance The Audit Committee Report on page 79 refers to goodwill and andindependent evidence fixed asset impairment as a key judgement considered by the tosupport any significant expected Audit Committee.
futurechanges to the business: Note 2 to the Financial Statements sets out the Groups working with our valuation specialists tobenchmark the accounting policy for testing goodwill for impairment.
The basisfor the impairment reviews is outlined in note 14 to the discount rates and perpetuity growth rates applied to external Financial Statements, including details of the pre-tax discount rate and terminal growth rate used.
Note 14 to the Financial macro-economic and market data.
This involved consideration Statements also includes details of the extent to which the goodwill and fixed asset impairment test is sensitive to of the impact of territory-specific risk-adjustments to the discount changesin the key inputs.
rate and perpetuity growth ratesversus the risk adjustments made tothe underlying cash flows: and assessing the appropriateness ofthe disclosures included in theFinancial Statements including the sensitivity analysis provided.
ANNUAL REPOR AT A nnuN al R D A eC po CrO t a UnN d A TS 2 cco 0u 16 nt s 2 N0 A1 T 6I O N Na AtL E ionX al E PRxE pS re S G ss G RO roU uP P p PLC LC 12 123 3 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued How the scope of our Risk description audit responded to the risk Key observations North American insurance and other claims provisions We used our actuarial specialists to As part of our detailed audit Of the total Group claims provision of 113.6 million at challenge the assumptions inherent in work testing the various 31December 2016, 105.4 million relates to the North America the valuation produced by the Groups aspects of the provision, division.
This reflects historical claims being managed by the Actuary in North America for the high including new amounts Group, as well as provision for new claims identified in the year, volume lower value claims, such as recognised at fair value on including amounts arising through acquisition in the year that the loss development factorsand acquisition and the income have required separatefair value consideration.
ultimate expected losses, and statement charge for the tore-perform the actuarial calculation year, we didnot identify Estimation of insurance and other claims provisions, including to develop a valuation range.
those arising on acquisition, is highly judgementaland is based on assessment of the expected settlement of known claims For the individually large claims When considering the overall together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in notsubject to actuarial review, we balance sheet provision in respect of incidents incurred but not reported at the balance discussed the nature of each claim light of the wide range of the sheet date.
with the US General Counsel and potential outcomes, and those responsible for claims handling having taken into account the The measurement of the self-insured claims provision in North and tested a sample of items to results of our audit work, we America uses a combination of actuarial assumptions around independent evidence to assess consider that the provision for lossdevelopment and management judgement to ensure that theexpected range of possible North American insurance theGroup is appropriately provided.
This included testing and other claims falls within Given the level of complexity and judgement involved inmaking thefair value of provisions recognised our acceptable range.
these estimations there is a risk the eventual outcome is on acquisitions during the year.
materially different from that estimated and provided for.
We compared the overall level of The Audit Committee Report on page 79 refers to North provision recorded to the range American insurance and other claims provisions as a key determined by management and judgement considered by the Audit Committee.
This area theGroups Actuary, to conclude hasalso been highlighted as a key accounting estimate whether the level of provision andjudgement in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
This involved Details of the Group claims provision are given in note 26to consideration of the audit evidence theFinancial Statements.
supporting the range aswell as theindependent assessment of therange for higher volume lower value claimsproduced by our actuarial specialists.
12 1244 N Na AtT io IO na Nl E AL E xprX eP ss G RES ro S G up P RO LC UP P AnLC nua A l RN ep No U rt a AL R nd A EP cO co Ru T A nts 2 ND A 016CCOUNTS 2016 How the scope of our Risk description audit responded to the risk Key observations Pensions accounting We challenged the actuarial From the audit work The Groups overall net pension liability across all schemes assumptions used to calculate the completed we are satisfied including that held within National Express Essex Thameside gross defined benefit obligation and that the methodology and NXET as shown separately within the group of assets our actuarial specialists performed assumptions applied availablefor sale is 50.5 million at31 December 2016. acritical assessment of the key inrelation to determining assumptions with reference to thepension valuation, when The measurement of the Groups gross defined benefit obligation comparable market data.
taken in aggregate, fall including that held within NXET of 848.1 million under IAS 19 withinanacceptable range.
Employee Benefits requires management to make judgements We also tested a sample of the data onassumptions including price inflation, discount rates, pension used in the actuarial valuation, as well increase, mortality rates and earnings growth.
A change in any as assessing the basis on which one of these assumptions could have a material impact on the pension surpluses were recognised.
determination of the gross defined benefit obligation.
The latter involved agreeing related terms to the deeds of the relevant The triennial funding valuation for the Groups principal Group pension scheme and UKBusscheme is in the process of being finalised for the considering theimpact of rail yearto 31 December 2016.
The triennial funding valuation franchise adjustments on oftheprincipal Group scheme has been completed for the theNXETscheme.
The recognition of scheme surpluses requires judgement around the application of IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined BenefitAsset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Total accounting surpluses recognised by the Groupat 31 December 2016 total 82.2 million, including anamount of 37.7 million for NXET.
The Audit Committee Report on page 79 refers to pensions accounting as a key judgement considered by the Audit Committee.
This area has also been highlighted as a keyaccounting estimate and judgement in note 2 to the FinancialStatements.
Details of the Groups pension obligations are outlined innote 34 to the Financial Statements.
The surplus recognised on the NXET scheme is disclosed separate innote 11 as this scheme was part of a business treatedas held for sale at year-end.
Fuel hedge accounting We have worked with our treasury Our independent testing of the The Groups non-rail divisions consume approximately 225 accounting specialists to: fair value of the fuel hedge million litres of fuel each year for which it is at risk ofprice derivatives did notidentify any challenge the valuations of a changes.
It is the Groups policy to hedge fuel price fluctuations material valuation differences sample of forward fuel hedge in order to provide short to medium term cost certainty.
and in aggregate the fair value contracts by calculating of the fuel hedge derivatives, At 31 December 2016 the Group held fuel derivatives independent fair values: which are provided to the withanoverall net fair value of 13.1 million, comprising review the hedge documentation company by the relevant liabilitiesof 25.3 million offset by assets of 12.2 million.
with reference to the financial institution requirements of IAS 39 and Accounting for fuel commodity contracts is an inherently counterparties, were bestpractice: complex area and the existence of a number of factors, deemedto be appropriate.
completed independent suchasbasis risk, means judgement is applied in testing effectiveness testing for The results of our audit work theaccounting hedges for effectiveness.
asampleof hedges: and assessing the Groups The Audit Committee Report on page 79 refers to fuel hedge challenged the Groups application of hedge accounting as a key judgement considered by the Audit assessment of thehighly accounting identified no Committee.
The Groups accounting policy for fuel hedges probableassumptions in material deviation from the isoutlined in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Note 31 to respectofthe forecast requirements of IAS 39 theFinancial Statements outlines details of the fair value of transactions.
Financial Instruments: thefuel hedge derivatives at year-end.
ANNUAL REPOR AT A nnuN al R D A eC po CrO t a UnN d A TS 2 cco 0u 16 nt s 2 N0 A1 T 6I O N Na AtL E ionX al E PRxE pS re S G ss G RO roU uP P p PLC LC 12 125 5 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope ofour audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 8.9 million 2015: 8.0 million Basis for 5.1% 2015: 5.3% of normalised profit before tax, including the impact of the UK Rail division which determining wasreported as a discontinued operation in the current year due to the post year-end sale of NXET.
materiality Normalised profit before tax is disclosed on the face of the Group Income Statement where it is reconciled tostatutory profit before tax.
Note 11 to the Financial Statements outlines profit before tax of 4.9 million for discontinued operations.
Rationale for the Normalised profit is one of the key metrics used both externally and internally as excluding exceptional items, benchmark applied although there are none in 2016, which are volatile, as well as amortisation costs, facilitates a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
The results of NXET were included to reflect the basis on which the Groups consensus normalised profit before tax had been set for 2016.
This materiality level equates to less than 1% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 2015: 160,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report tothe Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
12 1266 N Na AtT io IO na Nl E AL E xprX eP ss G RES ro S G up P RO LC UP P AnLC nua A l RN ep No U rt a AL R nd A EP cO co Ru T A nts 2 ND A 016CCOUNTS 2016 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the five operating divisions and the Group head office function.
Each operating division produces its own sub-consolidation and was subject to an audit that was scoped relevant to its component materiality level, which was between 3.2 million and 5.2 million for both the current and prior year.
This audit work was principally performed by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms, with a number of non Deloitte component auditors reporting to Deloitte Spain for the Spain and Morocco divisional audit.
The Group head office work was performed to a component materiality level of 6.4million, consistent with the prior year.
The five operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% 2015: 100% of Group revenue and Group operating profit and 99% 2015: 99% of Group net assets.
Group-level analytical review procedures were performed over the amounts held in the Bahrain joint venture, along with specified audit procedures over certain revenue, cost and balance sheet items performed at our request by non Deloitte component auditors in Bahrain to a component materiality of 2.0 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditorand or a senior member of the audit team visits each of the five primary divisions where the Group audit scope was focused at least once a year in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
In relation to the current year audit the Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the audit team visited Spain, North America, Germany and Bahrain at least once.
Outside of the planned visits regular discussions were held with the component audit teams throughout the year to direct and supervise the planning and execution of their audit work.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements areprepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have notidentified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
ANNUAL REPOR AT A nnuN al R D A eC po CrO t a UnN d A TS 2 cco 0u 16 nt s 2 N0 A1 T 6I O N Na AtL E ionX al E PRxE pS re S G ss G RO roU uP P p PLC LC 12 127 7 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for ouraudit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of report arising from Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be these matters.
auditedis not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement report arising from relatingto the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our have not identified any opinion, information in the Annual Report is: such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters thatwe communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
12 1288 N Na AtT io IO na Nl E AL E xprX eP ss G RES ro S G up P RO LC UP P AnLC nua A l RN ep No U rt a AL R nd A EP cO co Ru T A nts 2 ND A 016CCOUNTS 2016 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to stateto them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for theopinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and havebeen consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information inthe Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Stephen Griggs Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 23 February 2017 ANNUAL REPOR AT A nnuN al R D A eC po CrO t a UnN d A TS 2 cco 0u 16 nt s 2 N0 A1 T 6I O N Na AtL E ionX al E PRxE pS re S G ss G RO roU uP P p PLC LC 12 129 9
