independent auditors Report to the members of NEXT plc What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of NEXT plc for the 53 week period ended 30 January 2016 which comprise: Group Parent company Group Balance Sheet Company Balance Sheet Group Income Statement Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Company Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Statement of Changes in Equity Company Statement of Changes in Equity Group Cash Flow Statement Company Cash Flow Statement Related notes 1 to 33 to the financial statements Related notes C1 to C6 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 January 2016 and of the Groups profit for the 53 week period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
overview of our audit approach Overall Group materiality of 40m 2015: 40m which represents approximately 5% 2015: 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Any audit differences in excess of 2m 2015: 2m are reported to the Audit Committee.
Materiality We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 3 Jan-15: 2 full scope components and perfomed audit procedures in respect of 3 Jan-15: 4 specic scope components.
The full and specic scope components accounted for 99% of underlying profit before tax the measure used to calculate materiality, 99% of external revenue and 99% of total assets.
Audit Scope Under over provison for Directory debt.
Determination of the net realisable value of inventory.
The valuation of derivatives which hedge foreign exchange and interest rate uctuations.
Risks of material Management override with regard to estimates and other provisions for returns and properties.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The scope of an audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
ISA 320 We determined materiality for the Group to be 40m 2015: 40m, which is approximately 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax.
The basis for materiality is normally underlying profit before tax, but in the current year this is equivalent to profit before tax as there are no exceptional items.
The rationale for using underlying profit before tax as our basis for materiality is that it provides a consistent period on period approach, excluding one off gains or losses which can be significant compared to underlying trading performance.
83 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 independent auditors Report to the members of NEXT plc Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
ISA 320 On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality should be set at 75% 2015: 75% of materiality, the top end of our range, namely 30m 2015: 30m : although we reduce our testing threshold in areas of significant risk to appropriately reflect our assessment of risk of material misstatement and focus on the key judgements and estimates.
materiality 40m Tolerance for potential uncorrected mistatements 25% 10m Performance materiality 30m Tolerance for potential undetected mistatements 75% Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
ISA 450 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 2m 2015: 2m, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of our audit for the 53 week period ended 30 January 2016 Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine the audit scope for each component within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take account of size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
After assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we ensured we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements.
Of the 24 reporting components of the Group, we selected 6 components covering entities within the UK and Hong Kong, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Of the 6 Jan-15: 6 components selected, we the Primary audit team performed an audit of the complete financial information of 3 Jan-15: 2 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
These were NEXT plc, NEXT Group plc and NEXT Retail Limited.
Together these represent more than 85% Jan-15: 83% of underlying profit before tax, 97% Jan-15: 97% of external revenue and 92% Jan-15: 76% of total assets.
NEXT Retail Limited which includes the Retail and Directory businesses accounts for more than 90% Jan-15: 88% of underlying profit before tax, 97% Jan-15: 97% of external revenue and 78% Jan-15: 66% of total assets.
For the remaining 3 Jan-15: 4 components comprising NEXT Distribution Limited, Lipsy Limited and NEXT Sourcing Limited specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements, either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Together these represent more than 14% Jan-15: 16% of underlying profit before tax, 2% Jan-15: 2% of external revenue and 7% Jan-15: 23% of total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component, but will have contributed to the overall coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Therefore, the reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for more than 99% 2015: 99% of underlying profit before tax, 99% 2015: 99% of external revenue and 99% 2015: 99% of total assets.
The remaining components together represent less than 1% of underlying profit before tax, external revenue and total assets.
These entities are subject to overall analytical review procedures to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Although not relied up on for the purpose of this opinion, the majority of the remaining components have to prepare statutory accounts which are audited by EY member firms.
For the elimination adjustments posted in the Group consolidation, we performed procedures to confirm there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements including the testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations.
The audits of the full and specific scope entities are performed at a materiality level calculated by reference to a proportion of the Group materiality appropriate to the scale of the business concerned.
NEXT Retail Limited was allocated 80% of the Group performance materiality.
The range of performance materiality allocated to the other full scope components and the specific scope components was 20% to 30% of the Group performance materiality of 30m.
The audit of the full scope components and specific scope components, other than NEXT Sourcing Limited, were undertaken by the Primary audit team in the UK.
The NEXT Sourcing Limited audit was performed by the EY firm in Hong Kong.
85 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 independent auditors Report to the members of NEXT plc Changes from the prior year The scope designated for NEXT Group plc has been changed from specific scope last year to full scope this year as substantially all of the balances were already in scope due to their size or complexity.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee We performed audit procedures which covered 100% of the The provision Under over provision for Directory debt provision balance.
for impaired Management records a provision of 162.5m JanDirectory We understood the ongoing impact of the reduction in 15: 140.6m where a loss event has occurred using debtors of minimum payments on consumer behavioural patterns, historical default rates and credit score information 162.5m Janthe debt profile and consequently the implications for the to determine the extent to which a loss event will 15: 140.6m is provision at the period end.
result in an actual loss for the Group.
sensitive to the We investigated the nature of and rationale for significant key assumptions This is the largest provision within the Group financial changes to the model which have been made in the period resulting in statements relating to a gross debtor balance of and considered their appropriateness with reference to high levels 1,094.1m 2015: 853.1m.
the changes in the debt profile.
of estimation Whilst the provision is calculated using a combination uncertainty.
We challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions of internally and externally sourced information in determining managements provision as follows: We have there is significant judgement in determining the independently 1.
We assessed the appropriateness of the definition of assumptions.
determined our a loss event and the method used by management to Key assumptions: own acceptable identify impacted debts loss events: range for 1.
How indicators of impairment or loss events 2.
We recalculated the historical default rates for each the provision are identified: risk category of customer by comparing prior year based on our customer balances and actual default during the last assessment 2.
The default rates representing the likelihood year, as support for the assumed default rates: and of these of eventual default for debt within each risk assumptions.
ageing category of the debtor book: and 3.
We compared the assumed recovery rates for debts passed to debt collection agencies to historical While 3.
The recovery rate for debt that has defaulted recovery rates and current performance.
consistently and passed to debt collection agencies.
conservative, We tested managements categorisation of the debtor This risk has increased in the current period due we consider book by stage of current default based on whether to the gross debtor balance increasing, driven by the provision payments have been made in accordance with the NEXT reductions in the minimum payment amounts.
is within this terms and conditions for Directory accounts.
acceptable Changes to default stage risk categorisation to We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the provision range.
meet FCA requirements have also increased the based on managements assumptions in respect of uncertainty and this reduced the comparability of default rates and expected recovery rates, and we also data to assess the risk of loss.
checked the underlying debtor book categorisation to recent customer payment history.
See also the Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties We compared the credit score data used by management page 30 : Audit Committee Report page 50 : to stratify the customer base to third party data source Accounting Policies pages 99 & 101 : and Note 14 information.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 114.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Determination of the net realisable values of We assessed the reasonableness of the inventory provision We consider by projecting future sales levels to calculate our own the valuation inventories estimate of the required provision.
This was determined of inventory The inventories balance at the period end 486.5m by applying the historical sell through performance to the continues to be 2015: 416.8m, is held at the lower of cost and anticipated surplus stock.
This included historical data conservative and net realisable value and is significant to the overall for stock sold at full price, stock marked down below full not materially Balance Sheet.
price in a sale period, and the element of inventory that misstated is passed to a clearance route: together with the related based on our The inventory provision is calculated using post margins losses achieved for each of these sales channels.
assessment of period end trading performance and historical managements We tested a sample of stock items categorised as Spring sales patterns.
Changes in trading performance can assumptions and Summer 2016, Autumn Winter 2015, and prior season result in significant judgement in determining the the provision older items, to gain comfort over the categorisation of provision required.
We consider the level of risk in model they have stock used in the provision calculation.
this provision to be consistent with previous years.
See also the Audit Committee Report page 50 : Accounting Policies pages 99 & 101 : and Balance Sheet page 94.
We identified the different types of derivative held by the We consider Valuation of derivatives which hedge foreign Group and assessed the level of risk inherent in each type the valuation of exchange and interest rate fluctuations.
of derivative such as forwards, options and swaps.
derivatives assets The nature of the business is such that there is of 95.9m JanWe analysed the features of a sample of the instruments exposure to foreign currency receipts and purchases.
15: 132.4m held at the period end per the contractual agreements The Groups hedging strategy to manage this risk is and derivative and checked that the details matched the counterparty such that at any one point in time there is a significant liabilities of valuations.
value of outstanding derivatives, which are marked to 15.2m Jan-15: We selected a sample of derivatives for valuation testing.
market and whose values are estimated based upon 20.0m are This sample covered each instrument, and counterparty market inputs, rather than being directly observable appropriate combinations for each type of instrument.
based on our The Group audit team was supported by EY experts who assessment of The Group also uses interest rate derivatives to independently valued the sample in order to challenge managements hedge part of the interest rate risk associated with the reasonableness of the counterparty valuations used process, third the Companys corporate bonds.
party valuations and our sample We evaluated the associated financial statement Refer to the Strategic Report Risks and Uncertainties testing by disclosures for appropriateness and completeness.
page 30 : Audit Committee Report page 50 : an internal Accounting Policies page 100 : and Note 27 of the derivatives Consolidated Financial Statements page 125 which valuation expert.
In addition to the risks disclosed above, we focused We concluded Management override with regard to on accruals and provisions of a judgemental nature the key estimates and other provisions for returns and therefore capable of being manipulated through judgements and and properties.
management override such as onerous lease and estimates were dilapidations provisions.
conservative and Other than stock and debtors dealt with separately consistent with For material items we reperformed the calculation of the above, these primarily relate to property related and the prior year.
accrual to test mathematical accuracy.
Therefore, we We understood the basis for these accruals and provisions did not identify in order to assess the appropriateness of managements evidence of underlying assumptions.
bias indicating We compared these assumptions to subsequent management outcomes where available.
Where subsequent outcomes override of were not available to assess their accuracy, we considered controls.
the appropriateness of managements previous estimates against historical outcomes.
We performed targeted journal entry testing focussed on journal entries which we considered to be higher risk.
We assessed the design and operating effectiveness of the controls management performs over each of the risks.
However, we did not rely on these controls to form our conclusion on those risks.
87 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 independent auditors Report to the members of NEXT plc The above risks are the same as in the prior year.
Revenue recognition risk, being a significant risk prescribed by ISAs, is not included above, as it was not an area of greatest audit effort.
our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no Ireland reporting information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or report.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules review exceptions to the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 49, and requirements report.
longer-term viability, set out on page 31: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to We have Ireland reporting add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing material to the directors confirmation in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have add or to draw carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including attention to.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 44, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Nigel Meredith Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 24 March 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Next plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 89 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 Consolidated Income Statement 93 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 94 Consolidated Balance Sheet 95 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 96 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 90 nextplc.
co. uk 24471.04 11 April 2016 2:32 PM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company NOTES INDEX 97 Group Accounting Policies 116 17 Bank Loans and Overdrafts 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 116 18 Trade Payables and Other Liabilities 102 1 Segmental Analysis 116 19 Other Financial Liabilities 104 2 Revenue by Type 117 20 Corporate Bonds 105 3 Operating Profit 117 21 Pension Benefits 106 4 Staff Costs and Key Management Personnel 120 22 Provisions 107 5 Finance Income and Costs 121 23 Share Capital 107 6 Exceptional Items 121 24 Other Reserves 107 7 Taxation 121 25 Share-Based Payments 109 8 Dividends 125 26 Shares Held by ESOT 110 9 Earnings Per Share 125 27 Financial Instruments: Risk Management and 112 10 Property, Plant & Equipment Hedging Activities 128 28 Financial Instruments: Categories 113 11 Intangible Assets 114 12 Interests in Associates and Other Investments 128 29 Financial Instruments: Fair Values 129 30 Financial Instruments: Sensitivity Analysis 114 13 Assets Under Construction 114 14 Customer and Other Receivables 130 31 Analysis of Net Debt 130 32 Operating Lease Commitments 115 15 Other Financial Assets 115 16 Cash and Short Term Deposits 131 33 Related Party Transactions 91 nextplc.
