GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 78 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc 1 In August 2015 we held a workshop with UK management Report on the financial statements which helped us build a more detailed understanding of Our opinion on the financial statements Northgates business, assisted in our determination of the In our opinion: significant audit risks and provided an opportunity for the | Northgate plcs Northgate Group financial statements wider audit team to get to know Northgate management.
and Parent Company financial statements the financial We also reviewed the working papers of the former auditors, statements give a true and fair view of the state of the to help familiarise ourselves with the testing approach they Groups and Parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 applied for the purposes of issuing their opinion, and to and of the Groups profit and the Groups and Parent understand the evidence they obtained over key judgements.
Companys cash flows for the year then ended: | the Group financial statements have been properly How the audit approach was structured prepared in accordance with International Financial Northgate has two principal trading components in the UK Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and Spain, a smaller trading component in Ireland and a nonUnion: trading component in Malta, overseen by a Group function in the UK.
I planned the audit approach to reflect Northgates | the Parent Company financial statements have been structure, which incorporated two important aspects.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the i.
Audit work executed on subsidiary businesses provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and I performed the audit partner role on Northgates UK | the financial statements have been prepared in accordance business and received an audit opinion from the PwC with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as member firm in Spain on Northgate Spain.
I was in regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS active dialogue throughout the year with the partner Regulation.
responsible for the audit of Northgate Spain: this included consideration of how she planned and performed her Performing the audit work and visiting the business once during the year On behalf of  LLP PwC it is my and attending the audit closing meeting which was responsibility to form these opinions.
This was the first year also attended by the Northgate Spain Finance Director.
that you have appointed PwC as Northgates auditors, and Although not significant to the Group audit, my UK audit I have therefore provided more information on how PwC team also performed a full scope audit in Ireland.
prepared for the audit together with an explanation of the audit approach applied and details of the accounting issues ii.
Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the we focused on, which I have discussed with the Audit and Risk Parent Company Committee.
I ensured that appropriate further audit work was Preparing to change auditors undertaken for Northgate plc as the Parent Company.
Following the decision to appoint PwC as auditors in March This included audit work on, for example, centrally held 2015 I and members of my team met with Northgates tax provisions, accounting for financial instruments, the management teams in the UK and Spain to understand the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation issues faced by the business and to gather information which of the financial statements, assessing the appropriate would assist us in the planning of our audit.
classification of exceptional items and work on certain disclosures within the Directors Remuneration report.
During the 30 April 2015 year-end process we met the former In aggregate these two areas provided me with the evidence auditors in order to understand the complex or significant required to form an opinion on the financial statements.
audit judgements which they made, observing the Audit Collectively the scope of our work covered 100% of revenue, and Risk Committee and reviewing the Annual Report and 99% of total assets and 91% of profit before tax.
1 Northgate plcs financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2016, the consolidated income statement and Group and Parent Company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the Group and Parent Company cash flow statements for the year then ended, the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
com stock code: NTG Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc CONTINUED The purpose and scope of my audit | the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and An audit has an important role in providing confidence in the financial statements that are provided by companies to their | the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The audit opinion does not provide assurance over We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the any particular number or disclosure, but over the financial Directors judgements against available evidence, forming statements taken as a whole.
It is the Directors responsibility our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the to prepare the financial statements and to be satisfied that financial statements.
they give a true and fair view.
These responsibilities have been recognised on behalf of the Board of Directors on page 78.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to My responsibility is to undertake my work and express provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We my opinion in accordance with applicable law and the obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland as controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC of the United Kingdom.
These standards also require me to comply with the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial APBs Ethical Standards for auditors.
information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited What an audit of financial statements involves financial statements and to identify any information that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the This includes an assessment of: implications for our report.
| whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Materiality In order for me to perform my work I had regard to the concept of materiality.
I determined materiality as follows: Overall group materiality 3.9m How I determined it 5% of profit before tax Why I believe this is appropriate I believe a standard benchmark of 5% of profit before tax is an appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although of course an item could also be material for qualitative reasons.
I selected profit before tax because management believes it best reflects the performance of Northgate.
When planning the audit I considered if multiple errors may Where the audit identified items that were not reflected exist which, when aggregated, could exceed 3.9m.
In order appropriately in the audited financial statements, I considered to reduce the risk of multiple errors which could aggregate these items carefully to assess if they were individually or in to this amount I used a lower level of materiality, known as aggregate material.
I reported any such items which exceeded performance materiality, of 3.0m to identify the individual 200,000 to the Audit Committee, who were responsible for balances, classes of transactions and disclosures that were deciding whether adjustments should be made to the financial subject to audit.
Furthermore, each subsidiary of the Group statements in respect of those items.
The Directors have and the Parent Company was audited to an assigned concluded that all items which remained unadjusted were not materiality level reflecting the size of the operation.
These material to the financial statements, either individually or in ranged from 120,000 Ireland to 3.5m Northgate UK.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 80 81 Our areas of audit focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and Having determined materiality we assessed the risks of effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
material misstatement in the financial statements.
In We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make estimates that involved making assumptions and considering on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Determining appropriate depreciation rates for vehicles available for hire We examined managements assumptions of expected The net book value of vehicle assets for hire at 30 April 2016 is future market values of hire vehicles used in the calculation 684.5m 2015: 660.2m with a depreciation charge for the by comparison to external third party industry data for year of 137.7m 2015: 138.0m.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and expected future market prices.
Equipment requires that depreciation rates and estimated useful lives are reviewed regularly to ensure that the net book value of We considered the historical accuracy of expected future tangible fixed assets when they are sold is broadly equivalent to market values by comparison to actual values achieved.
We tested the assumption of the level of vehicle This requires management to make an estimate of the sale registrations to third party, publically available data and proceeds at the time of disposal.
Determining likely sales recalculated the impact of a reduction in fleet age on proceeds for future vehicle disposals is judgemental and requires disposal profits.
a number of key estimates to be made, including the age, We performed detailed testing of the calculations condition and mileage of each vehicle, the method of selling a supporting these judgements, including comparison to vehicle and expected future market conditions, such as forecast recent actual market prices achieved on disposal of similar levels of supply and demand.
Further explanation is included in the Groups critical From the work we performed we did not identify any accountingjudgements and key sources of estimation material misstatements.
uncertainty in Note 3, the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 61 to 63 and Note 14.
The recoverability of aged trade receivables We recalculated provisions to test whether they were Trade receivables are stated in the balance sheet at their fair calculated in accordance with Group policy.
value less any provision for irrecoverable amounts.
At 30 April 2016 net trade receivables were 58.1m 2015: 61.4m after We examined the levels of post year end cash collections provisions of 12.9m 2015: 12.6m.
against year-end trade receivables and investigated individual overdue balances greater than 100,000, Determining an appropriate provision for potentially by reference to recent history of recoveries and irrecoverable trade receivables requires judgement across the correspondence with customers.
Groups large and diverse customer base of the likely levels of recovery of these receivables, along with the consideration of To assess the reasonableness of provisions we tested the the overall economic environments in the UK, Ireland and Spain.
age profile of the trade receivables balance back to a sample of invoices raised.
We considered the collectability Further details are included in the Groups critical accounting of individual balances raised more than 90 days prior to judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note year-end greater than 100,000, by reference to recent 3, the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 61 to 63 and history of recoveries and correspondence with customers.
We also performed look back testing to consider managements historical accuracy of provisioning for trade receivables.
From the work we performed we did not identify any material misstatements.
com stock code: NTG Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions We evaluated and challenged managements rationale for We focused on this area due to the judgement required in the level of provisions held.
We considered the status of assessing the need for provisions, to cover the risk of challenge recent and current tax audits and enquiries, the outturn of of certain of the Groups tax positions, which have been taken as previous claims and the tax environment in each territory.
current tax deductions in the current and previous years.
We also considered any penalty regimes that could apply should any of the Groups tax positions be challenged successfully.
Going concern The Directors have made a statement on page 30 regarding going concern.
This statement is based on their belief that the Group and Parent Company intend to, and have sufficient resources to, remain in business for 12 months from the date of this report.
I am required to review this statement, and in doing so have considered Northgates budgets and forecast cash flows and financial covenants and sensitivity analysis thereon.
I have nothing to report as a result of my review and have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement.
Other reporting The Annual Report also contains a considerable amount of other required information and in respect of this information my responsibilities and my reporting are set out in the table below: Area of the Annual Report My responsibility My reporting Remuneration report on pages 64 to 74 Those parts of which are clearly marked Consider whether the information is In my opinion, this information has as audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Consider whether certain other The other required disclosures have disclosures specified by the Companies been made.
Other areas Strategic Report and the Directors Consider whether they are consistent In my opinion, the information in these Report with the audited financial statements.
reports is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Viability statement on page 42 which Review the statement in the light of the I have nothing material to draw considers the longer term sustainability knowledge gathered during the audit.
attention to or to add to the statement.
of the Groups business model.
Directors confirmation of their robust Review the confirmation and description I have nothing material to draw assessment of principal risks and in the light of the knowledge gathered attention to or to add to the disclosures, describing those risks and during the audit.
how they are managed or mitigated on pages 39 to 41.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 82 83 Area of the Annual Report My responsibility My reporting Audit Committee report on page 61.
Consider whether it deals appropriately No exceptions to report.
with those matters that I reported to the Audit Committee.
Directors statement on page 78 Consider whether any information No disagreements to report.
that they consider the Annual Report, found during the course of the audit taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced would cause me to disagree.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for you to assess Northgates performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate Governance report on pages Review the remaining 10 provisions of Nothing to report following our 58 to 60 the UK Corporate Governance Code review.
specified for our review by the UK Listing Rules.
All other information in the Annual Consider whether it is materially No exceptions to report Report aside from the audited financial inconsistent or materially incorrect statements.
based on the knowledge gained in the audit, or otherwise misleading.
Consider whether it is materially inconsistent with the audited financial statements.
In addition, I am required to report to you if, in my opinion: | I have not received all the information and explanations required for my audit: or | adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or | returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or | the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
I have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Steve Denison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 27 June 2016 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG In the financials you can find the financial statements for both the Group and the Parent Company, along with the accompanying notes.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 FINANCIALS Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 84 85 86 Consolidated income statement 87 Statements of comprehensive income 88 Balance sheets 89 Cash flow statements 90 Notes to the cash flow statements 91 Statements of changes in equity 92 Notes to the accounts 125 Notice of Annual General Meeting 129 Glossary 130 Shareholder information 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6
