94 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ONESAVINGS BANK PLC ONLY We first considered these in June 2016, and refreshed our Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit assessments following the results of the EU referendum and 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified through our half year review, interim and final audits.
We have audited the financial statements of OneSavings Bank Plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 99 Further factors we considered in our assessment of audit risks to 158.
In our opinion: included the emergence of digital and technological disrupters the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and increased regulation, including the need to prepare for state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as major financial reporting changes such as updated accounting at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year standards on financial instruments.
then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly We also considered the Groups control environment and in prepared in accordance with International Financial particular whether its systems were processing transactions Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union completely and faithfully, and included appropriate controls IFRSs as adopted by the EU : designed to prevent fraud.
Our work included testing the key the parent company financial statements have been controls over the processing of transactions and the key properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by inter-system and bank reconciliations.
the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Our assessment of the audit risk in the area of income the financial statements have been prepared in accordance recognition continues to be impacted by further information with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as available for analysis as the portfolios age, the level of regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS competition in the Groups markets and the challenge of Regulation.
Overview We consider the audit risk in relation to loan impairment to The starting point for our audit was a consideration of the have been affected by the impact of the result of the EU inherent risks to the Groups business model and how these referendum, the regulatory and tax changes to the Buy-to-Let have been mitigated.
This consideration included market, continued strong loan growth both organically and understanding the strength of the Groups capital and liquidity through further portfolio acquisitions, and the challenge of position, the diversification of assets, the flexibility and meeting market expectations.
However, we note that these composition of its balance sheet and the management of its risk factors continue to be allayed by the low interest rate cost base.
In addition, we assessed external economic, environment.
political and regulatory factors, through: Conversations with management and the Board of These assessments enabled us to form a judgement on going directors: concern and also highlighted the key areas of financial Ongoing knowledge gained through reading pertinent statement risk on which our audit has focused.
By looking at management information: both broad risk themes across the Group and particular Reading independent economic forecasts and commentary: concerns within the business, we were able to calibrate our Incorporating the views of our internal specialists regarding work to financial statements risk more precisely.
bank regulation, IT and tax: Changes in banking regulations and the views of the The final result of our risk consideration is shown in the table.
Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Consistent with 2015, we are of the view that loan impairment, Authority: and recognition of revenue on acquired loans and EIR on organic Peer comparisons.
Loan impairment including Accounting for executive A I forborne loans compensation scheme J Recognition of revenue on Going Concern risk and B J H acquired loans longer term viability K B D Effective Interest Rate EIR Risk of fraudulent transactions C K C on organic loans E L A Amortisation of fair value Disposal of Rochester D L P hedge asset securitisation vehicle M F Valuation of treasury instruments Recoverability of deferred I E M and hedge accounting tax assets G N Use of third parties for loan Financial reporting and F N book servicing robustness of reporting processes Legal, compliance and Valuation of investments G O O regulatory developments in subsidiaries Management override of controls IT environment and effectiveness Likelihood of material misstatement H P risk required by ISAs of general IT controls Risks of greater signicance assessed below Note: Risks B, C and D have been assessed as one risk below due to the similar Other financial statement audit risks underlying nature of the risks and our responses significant risk as required by the International Standards on Auditing Potential impact on financial statements Strategic report Financial statements Governance 95 loans carry the greatest significance.
In addition, the Our response our procedures included: amortisation of the fair value hedged asset is significant in For loans originated by the Group: 2016.
Due to the similarity in the underlying principles of We tested the accuracy of data inputs from the revenue recognition on acquired loans, EIR on organic loans mortgage systems into the effective interest rate and the amortisation of the fair value hedged asset, we have models and the consistency of methodology and assessed these as one risk below.
As described on pages 69 to application across the loan portfolios owned by the 74 these are also areas that have been focused on by the Group: Groups Audit Committee.
We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the models key assumptions, including interest rates, product structures and expected lives by performing 3.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement stress tests, considering their limited historical In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial experience: and statements the risks of material misstatement that had the We assessed the mathematical accuracy of models greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit through re-performance of the model calculations, and significance, were as follows unchanged from 2015 : checked the effective interest rates used within the monthly calculations agreed to the models.
a Recognition of revenue on organic and acquired loans Additional procedures for acquired loans 309.5 million 2015: 268.2 million Risk versus 2015: We performed regression testing to identify any unchanged significant deviations from the original forecast cash Refer to page 69 for Audit Committee report, page 104 flows: accounting policy and pages 99 to 158 financial disclosures.
We considered whether any catch up adjustments were required on portfolios where actual cash flow experience The risk The effective interest rate calculation, which has differed from that originally predicted.
For those usesrelevant interest rates, fees and transaction costs, loans where catch up adjustments have been recorded, incorporates assumptions around loan expected lives driven by we assessed the appropriateness of the payment estimations of loan repayment profiles and, in the case of assumptions used in the future forecast cash flow acquired credit impaired mortgages and loans, additional calculations, by comparing to payment rates previously variables such as the purchase price and estimated recoverable experienced: and values.
Due to the relatively low levels of historical organic We visited each of the servicers for the mortgage and lending in comparison to the significant recent growth, the personal loan books where these were not administered Group has limited information available from which to assess by the Group to consider the adequacy of the control trends in prepayment, redemption and product transfers, environment at these entities and performed sample resulting in increased subjectivity to these assumptions, as testing to assess the accuracy and consistency of the detailed patterns of customer behaviour have not been clearly information provided by the servicer companies to the established from which to estimate future customer behaviour Group.
For acquired loan portfolios, any change in For the loan books acquired during the year, we performed the repayment profile results in the discount received or an assessment of the effective interest rate model.
We premium paid on purchase of the portfolio to be adjusted and checked the consistency of the formulae used and to check spread over the revised expected life.
the mathematical accuracy of the calculation, in order to determine whether the effective interest rate calculated Due to the relatively low levels of historic organic lending in was appropriate.
We also considered the composition of comparison to the significant recent growth, the Group has the loan portfolio to determine the reasonableness of the limited information available from which to assess trends in acquisition fair values and the total amounts recoverable.
prepayment, redemption and product transfers, resulting in For the fair value adjustments on hedged assets relating to increased subjectivity to these assumptions, as detailed the legacy back book mortgages, we assessed the patterns of customer behaviour have not been clearly reasonableness of the amortisation of the asset which established from which to estimate future customer behaviour arose on cancelled swaps through checking key inputs to and performance.
source documentation and re-performance of the calculation.
As further portfolios are purchased by the Group, there is a We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures need to assess the consistency and accuracy of the effective relating to the recognition of revenue on organic and interest rate calculations across the individual models.
number of the acquired portfolios are serviced by third parties, leading to data inputs from a number of sources.
There is also a risk that the amortisation profile of the fair value adjustments on hedged assets relating to a proportion of the legacy back book long dated mortgages no longer matches the observed repayment pattern.
96 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF ONESAVINGS BANK PLC ONLY b Loan impairment 25.0 million 2015: 27.3 million Risk Our response our procedures included: versus 2015: unchanged We tested the design, implementation and operating Refer to page 69 for Audit Committee report, page 104 effectiveness of key controls over the monitoring and accounting policy and pages 99 to 158 financial disclosures.
reporting of loans and advances to customers.
For loans assessed for specific provision: The risk This is a key judgemental area due to the level of We tested the completeness of the loans identified by subjectivity inherent in estimating the recoverability of loan the Group as high risk through a consideration of all balances, compounded by the fact that lower levels of lending loans for risk factors such as magnitude, arrears and historically have provided the Group with little historical previous loan restructures: experience to use in predicting the likelihood of loans falling We re-performed the calculations of impairment and agreed the key data inputs to third party into arrears.
documentation: namely projected selling price and costs to valuation reports, rental income to tenancy The Group identifies individual mortgage loan cases for a agreements and discount rates to the interest rate of specific impairment assessment based on the current level of the loan: and arrears and nature of the loan.
The individual impairment We challenged and assessed the reasonableness of the requirement for the loan is determined based on estimated key judgemental areas of the calculation, being forecast future cash flows discounted to present value at the rate sale value of the collateral and the time to sale of the inherent in the loan.
This is a highly manual process, with a property, through stress testing.
number of data inputs and assumptions including the cost of For loans assessed collectively for impairment: obtaining and selling the repossessed property, probable sale We re-performed the model calculations and agreed the proceeds and any rental income prior to sale.
data inputs in the model to the mortgage data system and third party reports in order to assess the accuracy of An assessment is performed collectively on all other loans for performance of the collective impairment model: impairment, with the key assumptions being the probability of We critically assessed the assumptions inherent in the an account falling into arrears and subsequently defaulting, model against our understanding of the different loan the market valuations of any collateral provided, the portfolios across the Group, their recent performance emergence period for losses and the estimated time and cost and industry developments: to sell any collateral property repossessed by the Group.
Due We assessed the methodology used by the Group to to the majority of the acquired portfolios being serviced by calculate the propensity of accounts with different third parties, the collective provision calculation requires data arrears profiles to fall into and out of default, and inputs from a number of different sources.
recalculated these rates based on the Groups actual historical experience.
These actual rates were compared The assumptions noted above differ across the Groups loan to those assumed by the Group to assess the validity of portfolios of residential lending comprising first charge, the rates used in the collective impairment assessment: second charge and shared ownership lending, Buy-To-Let and We stress tested the collateral valuations, forced sales SME lending, development finance, and personal loans, discount and costs to sell the collateral being the reflecting the diverse nature of lending performed by the expected recovery on sale of the property to assess the Group and different characteristics of each book.
Due to the sensitivity of the impairment provision to these relatively young nature of these loan books, which result in assumptions: limited historical information, and sensitivity of the We considered the consistency of the probabilities of impairment assessments to these assumptions, there is a risk default and the emergence periods with the limited that actual experience may differ from the Groups current historical internal data available: expectations.
We considered the accuracy of previous estimates of the collective provision against the current book profile: Increased lending in recent years has been at a time of We benchmarked the provision coverage rates and the historically low interest rates, which may distort customer Groups assumptions such as forced sale discounts, behaviour and loss experience data for use in future emergence period and costs to sell collateral rates against assumptions, particularly if interest rates were to increase in other similar institutions to assess both the level of the coming years.
impairment provision in comparison to industry norms and the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions used: The Group implements a number of forbearance procedures We monitored credit trends in the portfolio, to assess on selected loans in arrears, such as restructuring of a loan or whether emerging trends are reflected in the provision capitalisation of arrears balances.
As this is a manual process, level: there is the risk that these measures are not appropriately We checked that forbearance activity is accurately taken into consideration when calculating the required reflected in the impairment provision calculation.
The provisions, as the apparent improvement in the arrears on the reasonableness of the provision on the forborne loans was loans could result in a lower impairment provision if the loans tested by checking that for each forborne loan, the uplift to are not identified as forborne.
the propensity to default assumption in the collective impairment assessment was appropriately applied: and We also considered compliance with the relevant accounting standards including the adequacy of the Group disclosures in relation to impairment.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 97 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the 5.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the scope of our audit Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was In our opinion: set at 5.2 million 2015: 4.1 million, determined with the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax adjusted audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the to remove the exceptional profit on disposal of Rochester Companies Act 2006: and Financing No1 Plc, of which it represents 4% 2015: 4% of the information given in the Strategic Report and the Group profit before tax.
The Group team performed Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the procedures on the profit on disposal including checking financial statements.
proceeds received and the terms of the sale agreement.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or course of the audit of the financial statements and from uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3 million reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: 2015: 0.2 million, in addition to other identified we have not identified material misstatements in those misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative reports: and grounds.
in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In 2016 the Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial 6.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of information, completing testing over the Interbay, Prestige principal risks and OSBIndia components.
The audit was performed using the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we materiality level set out above and covered 100% of total have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation Group revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
to: the directors statement of longer-term viability on page In 2015 audits for Group reporting purposes were performed 46, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, at all three of the Groups components: the InterBay subbased on that, the directors assessment and expectations group, the Prestige sub-group, and OSBIndia.
These audits also of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years covered 100% of Group revenue, profit before tax and total to 31 December 2019: or assets.
In 2015 the Group audit team instructed component the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the concerning the use of the going concern basis of relevant risks detailed above and the information to be accounting.
In 2015 the Group audit team set component materiality at 3,570,000 for all components, having regard to 7.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on the size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
which we are required to report by exception The audit of one of the three components was performed by Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, component auditors with the rest being performed by the based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we Group audit team.
In 2015 Group instructions were provided to have identified other information in the annual report that the component auditors, and telephone conference meetings contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge were also held.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, Group audit team were discussed in more detail to ensure or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the Whole financial Materiality profit before tax knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statements materiality: 5.2 million 129.2 million statement that they consider that the annual report and 4% of profit before tax 2015: 4.1m financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Misstatements reported to you if, in our opinion: the Audit Committee: 5.2 million 0.3 million 5% of materiality adequate accounting records have not been kept by the FY 2016 parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
98 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF ONESAVINGS BANK PLC ONLY Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 92 and 46, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 58 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
PAMELA MCINTYRE SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 16 March 2017
