OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Independent Auditors report to the members of Paysafe Group plc only 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements Overview isunmodified Materiality: We have audited the financial statements of Paysafe Group Group financial $5m 2015:$2.5m plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages statements as a whole 3% 2015: 3.8% of profit before tax 99to 142.
In our opinion: 100% 2015:100% of Group Coverage divisions - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs Recurring risks Revenue recognition asat 31 December 2016 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets - the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : and - have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1931-2004.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Our procedures included: Revenue Revenue recognition: $1,000m: 2015: $613m The recognition of revenue by the Group as - Involving our information risk management a result of processing payment transactions specialists to understand, through inquiry, and Refer to pages 68 to 74 conducted on its various operating testing of the operating effectiveness of the AuditCommittee Report and platforms may be misstated.
Revenue information technology general controls page110 accounting policy.
isrecognised on completion of each environment: transaction.
The Group earns revenue from - Testing the operating effectiveness of key multiple streams of transaction type from automated application controls over revenue, contractual relationships with members such as user fees, incentives, foreign exchange and merchants.
The appropriate fees and exceptions: and recognition of revenue is dependent - Agreeing, on a sample basis, the rate inputs for ontheintegrity of the overall information revenue transactions to source relationship technology environments calculating contracts.
revenue on each transaction type correctly, the operating effectiveness of application and core finance processes and controls ofthe Groups operating divisions.
Our procedures included: Goodwill and intangible Impairment of intangibles assets andgoodwill: - Understanding the Groups budgeting Goodwill $1,154m: The group has material balances of procedures, upon which the forecasts are 2015:$1,178m intangible assets and goodwill resulting based, through inquiry and testing the from business acquisitions.
The evaluation mathematical integrity of the Groups Intangible assets $364m: of recoverability of the carrying value at the discounted cash flow model: 2015:$370m year end is dependent on the current and - Critically assessing the key assumptions used future performance of the cash-generating inthe discounted cash flow model against Refer to pages 68 to 74 Audit units of the group.
As such, this requires Committee Report, page 109 current and expected performance trends.
significant judgement by management accounting policy and pages Comparing assumptions to externally derived inforecasting future performance and 112to115 financial disclosures.
data, where appropriate, and to our own evaluating whether the assets recognised assessments of certain key inputs: are impaired.
Key estimates include the rate - Involving our own valuation specialists to assist of growth and discount factor.
us in evaluating the discount rate used: and - Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment of intangible assets and goodwill to changes in key assumptions appropriately reflected the inherent risks.
com 95 Independent Auditors report to the members of Paysafe Group plc only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Profit before tax Materiality ofthe scope of our audit $168m 2015: $11.8m $5m 2015: $2.5m The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $5 million 2015: $2.5 million, with reference to benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents $5m approximately 3% 2015: 3.8% when adjusted for Whole financial non-recurring items.
statements materiality 2015: $2.5m We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $250,000 $4m 2015: $125,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Component materiality 2015: $2m Of the Groups three divisions, Payment Processing, Digital Profit before tax Wallets and Prepaid, we subjected all three to audits for Group materiality $250k Group reporting purposes.
The effect of this approach AMPT covered 100% of Group divisions.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2015: $125k The Group operates a shared service centre in Bulgaria, theoutputs of which are included in the financial reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate Total revenue reporting components.
The service centre is subject to testing by the Group engagement team of revenue transaction $1,000m 2015: $613m processing, testing of information technology general controls and procedures relating to payroll.
Additional audit Prepaid Payment procedures are performed at certain reporting components processing toaddress the audit risks not covered by the work performed $214m by the shared service centre.
2015: $76m $468m 2015: $375m The Group audit team instructed component auditors as tothe significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and information to be reported back.
Digital wallets TheGroup audit team set the component materialities, $311m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group 2015: $159m across the components.
These materiality levels were set tothe materiality level specified above or lower.
The work onfour of the six components was performed by component auditors and the remaining by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visits component jurisdictions on a cyclical basis having regard to the mix of size and risk of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team visited the component location in Montreal, Canada in the current year, including to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Regular telephone conference meetings were held with all locations that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 96 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION 4.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures Respective responsibilities of Directors andAuditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors ofprincipal risks responsibilities set out on page 145, the Directors are Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, responsible for the preparation of financial statements that wehave nothing material to add or draw attention give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and toinrelation to: express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance - the Directors Strategic report on pages 48 to 57, concerning with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
continuing in operation over the six years to 2022: or - the disclosures in note 3 to the financial statements Scope of an audit of financial statements performed concerning the use of the going concern basis in accordance with ISAs UK andIreland ofaccounting.
An audit in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance on which we are required to report byexception that the financial statements are free from material Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, circumstances and have been consistently applied and or that is otherwise misleading.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall In particular, we are required to report to you if: presentation of the financial statements.
In addition we read - we have identified material inconsistencies between the all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements and to identify any information that is financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially andunderstandable and provides the information inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent and performance, business model and strategy: or material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
- the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the The risks of material misstatement detailed in the section AuditCommittee.
ofour report titled Our assessment of risks of material misstatement are those risks that we have deemed, in our Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: professional judgement, had the greatest effect on: the - the Directors statements, set out on pages 57 and 145, overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: inrelation to longer term viability and going concern: and and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit - the part of the Governance report and Report of the Audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the Committee relating to the Companys compliance with the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with Code specified for our review.
respect to any of these risks, and we do not express anopinion on these individual risks.
Under the Companies Acts 1931 to 2004 we are required toreport to you if, in our opinion: Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable - proper books of account have not been kept by the Parent levelofprecision in financial statements.
We identify a Company and proper returns adequate for our audit have monetary amount of materiality for the financial statements not been received from branches not visited by us: or as a whole based on our judgement as to thequantitative amount of a misstatement or an omission that could - the Parent Companys balance sheet and income reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions statement are not in agreement with the books of account of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
and returns: or Theconcept of materiality is applied both in planning and - certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified law are not made: or misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected - we have not received all the information and explanations misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and we require for our audit.
informing the opinion in ourreport.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
com 97 Independent Auditors report to the members of Paysafe Group plc only continued When planning and performing the audit, materiality is used The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe in evaluating the risk of material misstatement for each our responsibilities financial statement caption, and therefore the extent and This report is made solely to the Companys members, persuasiveness of audit evidence required by us.
In turn, asabody, in accordance with Section 15 of the Companies materiality will also define the level of precision applied Act 1982.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we toindividual audit procedures.
might state to the Companys members those matters we arerequired to state to them in an auditors report and for Materiality is also used in the calculation of the quantitative noother purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, level below which individual misstatements are considered wedo not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other tobe clearly trivial and do not need to be reported to those than the Company and the Companys members as a body, charged with governance or corrected.
If, in the specific forouraudit work, for this report, or for the opinions circumstances of the entity, there is one or more particular wehaveformed.
classes of transaction, account balances or disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for Russell Kelly the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be Responsible Individual expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements, we also determine For and on behalf of KPMG Audit LLC the materiality level or levels to be applied to those particular Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants classes of transaction, account balances or disclosures.
Heritage Court When evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on 41 Athol Street theaudit, and of uncorrected misstatements on the financial Douglas statements, we request that misstatements are corrected and Isle of Man IM99 1HN then apply judgement in identifying whether an uncorrected 6 March 2017 misstatement or omission is material.
To do so we make reference to the monetary amount of materiality for the financial statements as a whole determined when planning the audit.
The materiality determined when planning the audit does not necessarily establish an amount below which uncorrected misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, will always be evaluated as immaterial.
We also consider the impact of misstatements on individual account balances or classes of transaction.
Furthermore, the qualitative circumstances related to some misstatements may cause us to evaluate them as material even if they are below the relevant quantitative materiality level.
Similarly, the circumstance related to some misstatements for instance those relating to classification or presentation may cause us to evaluate them as not material to the financial statements as a whole even if they are above the relevant quantitative materiality level.
Whilst an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit todetermine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate ofuncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work onabroad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense aswell as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of accounting and reporting.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 98
