Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc Opinion on financial statements of PayPoint plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company statement of financial position, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity, the consolidated and company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Directors Report on page 56 and the directors statement on the longerterm viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 14.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 14 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 16 to 19 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 15 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: 58 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Consideration of non-current assets held for sale We obtained managements assessment of the application of IFRS 5 Management is required to assess the implications of the planned and assessed the status of the planned disposal at 31 March 2016 disposal of the mobile payments businesses comprising PayByPhone against the criteria set out in IFRS 5. and Adaptis Mobile, on the presentation in the group financial statements.
In particular, management is required to take into account Our procedures included discussion with management and agreeing the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for resale and project milestones to supporting documentation including board discontinued operations IFRS 5.
Following the impairment 30.8 minutes and correspondence with advisors.
million associated with this business, the net assets of Mobile are 1.7 million as at 31 March 2015, and have been described in note 16 to the We have compared the carrying value of Mobile following the financial statements, with the accounting policy and critical accounting impairment to managements estimate of fair value less cost to sell.
We have inspected correspondence with potential acquirers to critically assess managements estimates of fair value less cost to sell.
Key judgements relate to the following: Whether the status of the planned disposal meets the criteria for the Mobile to be disclosed as a disposal group, in particular whether the sale is considered highly probable as at the year end: and Ensuring the disposal group is held at the lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
Valuation of Collect We have met with board members directly involved in the discussions The carrying value of financial assets including the groups joint venture to understand the proposals that have been put forward and the range is required to be assessed at the end of each reporting period to of potential outcomes.
We have inspected correspondence from the determine whether there is any objective evidence of impairment.
The joint venture partner and examined minutes of the discussions that joint venture has reported a loss for the year as a result of a temporary have taken place.
We have read the terms of the joint venture increase in costs charged by one of the joint venture partners for agreement and the terms of the services agreement governing the services provided.
Discussions are ongoing with the joint venture services provided and the pricing thereof to assess the basis on which partner on the pricing of services it provides to the joint venture.
The revisions can be made to the pricing of services.
groups share of the net assets of the joint venture under the equity method of accounting shown in the consolidated accounts is 1.6 We have audited the results and financial position of Collect and million 2015: 1.9 million and the investment in the parent company evidenced the impact on profitability of the additional charges by the balance sheet is 5.9 million.
joint venture partner which have turned profits in the prior year to current year losses.
We have inspected evidence that the additional charges that Details of the investment have been described in note 13 to the financial had been borne by the joint venture ceased on 31 March 2016. statements, with the accounting policy and critical accounting judgement in note 1.
Revenue recognition With the assistance of our IT specialists, we tested the effectiveness Revenues of 212 million have been recognised in the year.
The groups of the controls over the IT environment in which transaction polling, accounting policy for the recognition of revenue is described in note 1 billing and rating reside, including the change control procedures in to the financial statements and further information is included in note 2 place over systems that bill material revenue streams.
The majority of the groups revenue is driven by high volume, low value transactions and the group relies heavily on its We tested controls over end-to-end reconciliations from transaction computer systems to record this data accurately.
Automated controls in polling from terminals, to billing and rating, to the general ledger, the computer systems are supported by business process controls including interface controls designed to determine completeness of designed to ensure completeness and accuracy of recording of the recording of all revenue transactions.
transactions processed across the groups retail network.
There is an inherent risk around the revenue recorded given the complexity of We also tested controls over manual adjustments to transactionsystems and the large number of schemes operated by the group, based invoices.
particularly where there are manual interventions such as in processing In addition to this controls work, we have performed the following: changes to fee structures.
substantive testing on the fee rates input into the computer systems: for all material revenue streams, analytical procedures were undertaken: and any non-routine revenue streams were also substantively tested and the revenue recognition policies assessed against the criteria of IAS 18.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 59 Independent auditors report to the members of PayPoint plc continued Last year our report included two other risks which are not included in our report this year: taxation i deferred asset valuation where the judgement on unrecognised assets is no longer significant in light of actual and planned business disposals and ii impact of a VAT ruling, where the group is accounting in accordance with the ruling passed and the carrying value of goodwill for PayPoint Romania business performance and future forecasts indicate that the risk of material misstatement is no longer significant.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 33.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 2.5 million 2015: 2.5 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit, and below 3% 2015: 3% of equity.
A profit measure is considered most relevant to users of the accounts: and an adjusted measure has been used to exclude impairments and the profit on disposal of the online payment business, as the benchmark for determining materiality as these transactions are non-recurring in nature.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2015: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work on 12 entities 2015: 13 entities, with the reduction from 2015 representing changes in the groups structure, in particular the disposal of the online payments business.
Of those: - 8 2015: 9 including the joint venture, Drop and Collect Limited were subject to a full audit.
These audits were performed by the group audit team without the assistance of a component auditor: - 1 PayPoint Romania was subject to a statutory audit to 31 December 2015, followed by 3 months roll forward through specific audit procedures: - 2 entities which were disposed of during the year were subject to analytical review procedures by the Group audit team for the period, during which they were under PayPoints control: and - 1 was subject to an audit of specified account balances.
The extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups business operations at those locations.
These 12 entities represent the principal business units within the group and account for 99% 2015: 99% of the groups net assets, 99% 2015: 99% of the groups revenue and 99% 2015: 99% of the groups adjusted profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on the 12 entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality.
The highest materiality applied to an individual trading component was 1.4 million 2015: 1.2 million.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visits PayPoint Romania the only location where a component auditor assists with the audit work every year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
60 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the group and the parent company and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Hadleigh Shekle FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 May 2016 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 61
