114 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Report on the financial statements annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are In our opinion: identi ed as audited.
Pearson plcs consolidated financial statements and company The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the view of the state of the Groups and of the companys a airs as at European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act companys cash ows for the year then ended 2006, and applicable law.
The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The scope of our audit and our areas of focus IFRSs as adopted by the European Union We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The company financial statements have been properly prepared on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing Act 2006 the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated and company The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where management the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the made subjective judgements, for example in respect of signi cant consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European of bias by management that represented a risk of material Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest e ect on In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply with our audit, including the allocation of our resources and e ort, are IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
identi ed as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these speci c areas in order What we have audited to provide an opinion on the consolidated and company financial The financial statements, included within the annual report and statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results accounts the annual report, comprise: of our procedures should be read in this context.
For each area of The consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016 focus below, to the extent relevant, we evaluated the design and The consolidated income statement and statement of tested the operating e ectiveness of key internal controls over comprehensive income for the year then ended financial reporting set in place by management, including testing The consolidated and company cash ow statement for the year the operation of IT systems from which financial information is then ended generated.
Each of the areas of focus below are also referred to The consolidated and company statement of changes in equity in the audit committee report on p71 and p75 and in the accounting for the year then ended policies on p28 to p134.
This is not a complete The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of list of all risks identi ed by our audit.
signi cant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 23m, which represents 4% of adjusted pro t before tax as disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
Refer to p118 for further details.
We conducted work in four key territories: US, UK, Brazil and China.
In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information reported by the associate Penguin Random House PRH.
Materiality The territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions and consolidated Group level, accounted for approximately: 67% of the Groups revenue: 84% of the Groups loss before tax: and 60% of the Groups adjusted pro t before tax.
Audit scope We focused on: Revenue recognition including risk of fraud Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Returns provision Areas of Major restructuring programme focus Provision for uncertain tax liabilities Recoverability of pre-publication assets Major finance transformation programme Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 115 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition including risk of fraud Refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial statements Where books are sold together with workbooks delivered later or companion digital materials available online, we assessed the basis for There are two types of complex contracts that require signi cant allocation of the purchase price between each element based on individual judgements and estimates, which could be subject to either accidental contractual arrangements, and then tested the detailed calculations errors or deliberate fraud: supporting these revenue deferrals.
We found the revenue deferrals to be Multiple element arrangements, such as the sale of physical textbooks based on reasonable estimates of the relative fair value of each element accompanied by digital content or supplementary workbooks, where and the methods used to calculate the deferrals properly calculated and revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual consistently applied.
contractual arrangement requiring the estimation of its relative fair For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and more recent long-term value contracts, covering both testing activities and online delivery of teaching, Certain long-term contracts that span year end, where revenue is we read the contracts and assessed the accounting methodologies being recognised using estimated percentage of completion based on costs.
applied to calculate the proportion of revenue being recognised.
We also These include contracts to design, develop and deliver testing and tested costs incurred to date and managements estimates of forecast accreditation, and contracts to secure students and support the costs and revenues by reference to historical experience and current online delivery of their teaching.
These complex contracts generate material deferred revenue and Our testing showed that revenue recognition practices are in accordance accrued income balances and are areas where misstatements in the with Group policies and related accounting standards with appropriate underlying assumptions or estimation calculations could have a material methods for calculating the revenue recognised.
e ect on the financial statements.
Refer to the returns provision areas of focus for our work over the risk In addition, there are material shipments towards the period end of cut-o.
from major distribution locations giving rise to the potential risk of a cut-o error.
Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to note 11 to the consolidated financial statements We obtained managements fair value less costs of disposal impairment model and tested and evaluated the reasonableness of key assumptions, After recording an impairment charge of 2,548m at 31 December 2016, including CGU identi cation, operating pro t forecasts and key inputs to the Group had 2,341m of goodwill and 1,101m of other intangible these forecasts, perpetuity growth rates and discount rates.
We tested assets including software, acquired customer lists, contracts and the mathematical integrity of the forecasts and carrying values in relationships, acquired trademarks and brands and acquired managements impairment model and con rmed that managements publishing rights.
estimate of each CGUs recoverable amount is appropriately based on the In 2016, the Groups North America business experienced a material higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value-in-use.
Our procedures decline in sales, most signi cantly in higher education courseware.
have been focused on the North America and Core CGUs.
As a result, in January 2017, management revised its 2017 operating We agreed the forecast cash ows to board-approved budgets, assessed how and strategic plan from which are derived inputs into the Groups these budgets are compiled and understood key judgements and estimates fair value less costs of disposal impairment model.
This resulted in within them, including short-term growth rates and cost allocations.
a 2,548m impairment to the North America aggregated cashSpeci cally for the US higher education courseware business, we generating unit CGU.
understood managements assumptions for the drivers of future sales, The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are dependent including the e ect of enrolment levels, and the impact of rental models on future cash ows of the underlying CGUs and there is a risk that if and second-hand books on sales of new books, and compared these with management does not achieve these cash ows it could give rise to external data and recent historical trends.
This risk increases in periods when the Groups We used valuations specialists to assess the perpetuity growth rate and trading performance and projections do not meet prior expectations, discount rate for each CGU by comparison with third-party information, such as in 2016. past performance and relevant risk factors.
We also considered The impairment reviews performed by management contain a number managements estimate of disposal costs for reasonableness.
of signi cant judgements and estimates of which the most signi cant As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment were forecast sales growth rate including US enrolment rates, recognised in 2016 was within a reasonable range and supported based on assessment growth rates and the success of new product launches, the uncertainties arising in the US higher education courseware business operating pro t forecasts, perpetuity growth rates and discount rates.
over the strategic plan period.
Changes in these assumptions can result in materially di erent impairment charges or available headroom.
We performed our own sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of reasonable changes in the key assumptions.
We agree with managements decision to provide additional disclosures in note 11 of the financial statements given that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions could materially impact the impairment charges or available headroom.
116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Returns provisions Refer to note 22 to the consolidated financial statements We performed testing over returns provisions in a number of locations, with our focus on the US higher education courseware business due to The Group has provided 159m for sales returns at 31 December 2016. a high level of returns during 2016.
The most signi cant exposure to potential returns within Pearson We assessed managements evaluation of the factors giving rise to arises in the US higher education courseware business.
In 2016, Pearson higher returns in 2016 than had been anticipated at 31 December 2015. received materially greater book returns from retailers than had been We corroborated managements analysis by reviewing 2016 returns history anticipated and provided at 31 December 2015, which management to underlying records, reviewed correspondence and meeting minutes with attributed primarily to a correction of inventory levels in the college key retailers and held discussions directly with these retailers in early 2017. bookstore channel re ecting lower enrolment, and the impact of rental We found that managements explanations of the causes and timing of the models eroding sales over time.
Management reassessed its approach to providing for returns in We tested the returns provision calculations at 31 December 2016 response to this experience, adopting a method to assess returns and agreed inputs such as historical sales and returns experience to by customer and channel rather than academic discipline.
We assessed the change in method was likely to be method and assumptions used to calculate returns provisions at more representative of future returns and re ects the retailers recent 31 December 2016 re ect discussions with retailers, a change in sales buying trends.
force incentives to a net sales basis and materially lower sales into We performed detailed testing over shipment and returns levels.
This these retailers in the final months of 2016 compared with 2015. included checking cut-o at year end and evaluating whether any changes in shipping volumes around year end might increase the risk of returns.
We corroborated that sales volumes in the final months of 2016 were materially lower than in prior years, and con rmed a change in sales incentive arrangements to a net sale basis.
In drawing our conclusions, we considered whether there were indicators of management bias.
We concluded that management had adopted methods and reached estimates for future returns that were supportable and appropriate.
Major restructuring programme We have identi ed no material adjustments in relation to the recording of Refer to notes 2, 4 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements these costs and we have noted that for the majority of these items there In January 2016, management announced a restructuring plan to is clear evidence to support the fact that they have arisen as a direct simplify the business and focus further on their global education consequence of the Groups restructuring plans.
As a result, management recorded a restructuring charge of 338m during 2016.
Given the signi cance of this programme, There are certain costs where the classi cation as restructuring is subjective management has also excluded these costs from their adjusted due to the circumstances in which they have arisen.
Based on the audit pro t measure.
evidence obtained, we have been able to conclude that, although subjective, there are valid arguments for associating these costs with the restructuring activities undertaken and therefore the classi cation is reasonable.
Provisions for uncertain tax liabilities We engaged with our tax experts and obtained an understanding of the Refer to notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements Groups tax strategy to identify tax risks relating to business and legislative The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the geographical developments.
To assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions, we diversity of its businesses.
first recalculated the valuation of tax provisions and determined whether Management is required to exercise signi cant judgement in the treatments adopted were in line with the Groups tax policies and had determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of potential been applied consistently.
tax exposures and uncertain tax provisions.
The most signi cant of We then evaluated the key underlying assumptions, particularly in the these relate to US tax.
In doing this, we considered the status of recent and current tax Changes in assumptions about the views that might be taken by tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental authorities can materially impact the level of provisions recorded in positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments the financial statements.
We also evaluated the consistency of managements approach to establishing or changing provision estimates.
We were satis ed that managements provision estimates for uncertain tax positions were prepared on a consistent basis with the prior year and were adequately supported.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 117 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of pre-publication assets Refer to note 20 to the consolidated financial statements We have assessed the appropriateness of capitalisation policies and selected a sample of costs deferred to the balance sheet as pre-publication The Group has 1,024m of pre-publication assets at 31 December assets to test their magnitude and appropriateness for capitalisation.
Pre-publication assets represent direct costs incurred in the We have assessed the amortisation pro les of pre-publication assets development of education platforms, programmes and titles prior against cash ows to test that the existing amortisation pro les remained to their public release.
appropriate in light of the transition towards digital products.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of the carrying We challenged the carrying value of certain pre-publication assets where value of these assets: this is further complicated by the transition to products are yet to be launched, are less proven, or where sales are lower digital as the Group invests in new, less proven, inter-linked digital than originally anticipated.
We assessed forecast cash ows against content and platforms.
historical experience and obtained supporting evidence for managements explanations.
We compared short and long-term growth rates to historical trends and expectations.
We challenged the life of the assets compared with similar Pearson products and found the Groups policies to be appropriate and consistently applied.
While the carrying value of some assets depends on future sales growth, overall we considered the year end carrying values to be supported and in line with the Groups policy.
Major finance transformation programme During the year, the Group launched a major finance transformation Given the pervasive impact of this ERP implementation to the UK programme, which will ultimately move to a single Enterprise Resource component audit, we have worked closely with management throughout Planning ERP system across the Group.
The UK represented the first the go-live process and have performed procedures as follows: territory to go live on this platform in 2016.
Evaluated managements assessment of risks and design of control Following go-live, the ERP and associated transaction level controls have activities, and tested the con guration of the new ERP environment taken a period to stabilise, such that some of these controls were not Validated the e ectiveness of managements data migration and fully e ective for the period following go-live.
programme development procedures Tested the new business processes and operating e ectiveness of the controls.
Given some of these controls were not fully e ective in the period following go-live, we c onducted additional substantive procedures, speci cally over the occurrence and accuracy of sales and the existence and valuation of debtors.
We noted no material adjustments as a result of this testing.
118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc How we tailored our audit scope The reporting units where we performed audit work, together with work performed at corporate functions and consolidated Group We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed level, accounted for approximately 67% of the Groups revenue, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 84% of the Groups loss before tax and 60% of the Groups adjusted statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure pro t before tax.
This is before considering the impact of Groupof the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the level monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical review industry in which the Group operates.
procedures, which covers a number of the Groups smaller and The Group is organised into three reportable segments, being North lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group America, Core and Growth, plus the associate investment in Penguin audit scope.
Taken together, this approach provided the evidence Random House.
Each segment comprises a number of reporting we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements units.
The consolidated financial statements comprise these taken as a whole.
reporting units plus the Groups centralised functions.
Materiality In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we The scope of our audit was in uenced by our application of determined the type of work that needed to be performed at materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent rms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line performed by component auditors, we determined the level of items and disclosures and in evaluating the e ect of misstatements, involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
units to be able to conclude whether su cient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality consolidated financial statements as a whole.
for the financial statements as a whole as follows: During the year, senior members of the Group engagement team Overall Group 23m 2015: 27m visited each of the US, Brazilian and Chinese component audit teams materiality and local client teams: we held a planning meeting attended by How we 4% of adjusted pro t before tax of 576m partners from the Group engagement team and our UK and US determined it component teams: and have had regular dialogue with component Rationale for Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements explains teams throughout the year, including holding clearance meetings benchmark that the Groups principal measure of performance is with each respective team.
We have also performed a review of applied adjusted operating pro t 635m, which excludes costs of working papers for all full scope entities and some speci ed major restructuring, other net gains and losses and procedure entities.
intangible charges impairment and acquired intangible asset amortisation, in order to present results from We identi ed two reporting units in the US and UK that required an operating activities on a consistent basis.
From adjusted audit of their complete financial information due to their financial operating pro t, we deducted net finance costs of 59m signi cance, plus a further eight reporting units in the US, UK, Brazil see note 8 because these mainly re ect recurring finance and China that required either an audit or speci ed procedures on charges.
To the resulting adjusted pro t before tax, we then certain transactions and balances.
We also obtained a full scope applied 4% rather than the usual 5% as our materiality audit opinion from PwC Germany on the financial information of calculation was based on an adjusted measure.
the US Penguin Random House associate.
The Group consolidation, Component For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a financial statement disclosures and corporate functions were materiality materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
audited by the Group engagement team.
This included our work The range of materiality allocated across components was over derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting, goodwill between 3m and 19m.
and intangible assets impairment reviews, litigation, pensions, We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them share-based payments and tax balances.
misstatements identi ed during our audit above 2m 2015: 2m, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 119 Going concern As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that statement, set out on p107, in relation to going concern.
the Group and company have adequate resources to remain in We have nothing to report having performed our review.
operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the to the directors statement about whether they considered it going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw a guarantee as to the Groups and companys ability to continue attention to.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the strategic report and the governance report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements The strategic report and the governance report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identi ed any material misstatements in the strategic report and the governance report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on p110, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the to report.
information necessary for members to assess the Groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on p70 to p75, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors con rmation on p55 and p107 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business material to add or model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
The directors explanation on p55 and p107 of the annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be material to add or appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in to draw attention to.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Directors remuneration statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of: Companies Act 2006. making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made.
We have statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Corporate governance statement Adequacy of accounting records and information and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, explanations received in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
We have no exceptions to report arising Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you from this responsibility.
if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the require for our audit: or corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, the Code.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 121 We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Our responsibilities and those of the directors and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities We test and examine information, using sampling and other set out on p111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit and fair view.
evidence through testing the e ectiveness of controls, substantive Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial procedures or a combination of both.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report With respect to the strategic report and governance report, we is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly consider whether those reports include the disclosures required agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for and on behalf of  LLP disclosures in the financial statements su cient to give reasonable Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assurance that the financial statements are free from material London misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: 14 March 2017 Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed The reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors The overall presentation of the financial statements.
