FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PENNON GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: Pennon Group Plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Pennon Group Plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material Completeness of provisions for uncertain tax positions and tax disclosures Group, including SWW & Viridor misstatement Valuation of goodwill Group Valuation of non-current assets Viridor Valuation of landfill related provisions Viridor Revenue recognition across the Groups operations Valuation of the provision for doubtful debts SWW Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four components.
The components where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items, 100% of Revenue and 95% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 10m which represents approximately 5% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items.
104 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and direction of the efforts of the audit team.
The identified risks are consistent with prior year.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk What we concluded to the Risk direction Our response to the risk Audit Committee Our procedures include: We concluded that the tax COMPLETENESS OF PROVISIONS amounts and disclosures in the FOR UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS We inspected the latest correspondence AND RELATED TAX DISCLOSURES Annual Report and Accounts between the Group and HMRC.
GROUP, INCLUDING SWW for the year ended 31 March We read legal advice or opinion management AND VIRIDOR 2016 are appropriate.
have obtained in the period in relation to The Groups current tax liability of 37.1 We concur with the approach uncertain tax positions, in order to verify million 2015: 52.2 million shown in note adopted in respect of uncertain whether the level of provision is based 27, includes 37.1 million 2015: 36.6 tax positions, and conclude that on up to date legal advice in response to million in respect of open tax computations the provision is appropriate, HMRCs challenges relating to prior years, where liabilities taking into account our review We obtained an updated view from internal are yet to be agreed with HM Revenue & of third party advice and views tax specialists as to HMRCs current position Customs HMRC.
of our internal tax specialists.
on open matters Pennon has a number of open periods with We assessed the level of provision maintained HMRC as a result of on-going enquiries into the interpretation of tax legislation for uncertain tax positions, in light of third party evidence obtained, the views of our tax regarding transactions undertaken by the Group.
The Group evaluates uncertain tax specialists and the level of coverage provided by the provision for the total tax that could items and, where appropriate, establishes provisions for uncertain tax positions based become payable on the status of discussions with HMRC.
We tested whether the tax accounting and Significant management judgement is required disclosures in note 9 and 27 complied with the in estimating tax expected to be paid for requirements of IAS12 Income Taxes uncertain tax items.
We read the tax disclosures in the Annual There is also limited HMRC guidance Report and Accounts and evaluated the available in relation to the tax treatment adequacy of these.
associated with IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements accounting.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates made by management in applying the Groups taxation accounting policy are disclosed in note 4.
Audit Committee commentary is on page 68. www.
co. uk 2016 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk What we concluded to the Risk direction Our response to the risk Audit Committee Our procedures include: We concluded that VALUATION OF GOODWILL management has determined GROUP We validated managements determination The value of goodwill is 385.0 million cash generating units and that the Viridor waste management business allocated goodwill to those 2015: 339.3 million, as included in note was a single CGU 15.
Goodwill has increased during the year CGUs at an appropriate level, We tested the clerical accuracy of the models being the lowest level within following the acquisition of Bournemouth by reperformance of a sample of calculations Water and an annual impairment test is the Group at which goodwill We agreed input data into the goodwill is monitored for internal required, with key assumptions being future impairment model and cash flow forecasts allowed tariff increases, delivery of operational management purposes.
to approved business plans, and for Viridor efficiencies and the discount rate applied.
We concluded that the discount we performed sensitivity analysis over this The value in use of the Viridor business, to rates and cash flow assumptions data, including growth rates, volumes, and which goodwill of 339.3 million has arisen, applied by management were powergen prices is based on assumptions over growth rates, within an appropriate range We benchmarked the discount rate calculation future landfill volumes, power generation and supported managements applied at Group level, using our internal prices and discount rates, which require conclusion that no impairment valuation experts to assist in our review of judgement.
whether managements assumptions are within There is a risk that assumptions and We concur with managements an acceptable range based on comparative judgements made by management, in assessment that the recently market data calculating the value in use of the cash acquired Bournemouth Water We agreed whether disclosures made are in generating units CGUs, could be susceptible business has outperformed accordance with IFRS.
its budget for the year and therefore the newly recognised Critical accounting judgements and estimates goodwill is not impaired.
made by management, when testing goodwill for impairment, are disclosed in note 4.
Audit Committee commentary is on page 68.
VALUATION OF NON-CURRENT Our procedures include: We concluded that the revised ASSETS VIRIDOR CGU structure is appropriate We discussed with management the change The net book value of Viridors property, plant and the timing of the revision in approach to identifying the CGUs and and equipment is 1,012 million 2015: 945.3 to CGUs is consistent with obtained a detailed understanding of the million, as included in note 17.
The Group is the significant operational changes in the business operations and required to review the carrying value of assets developments within the environment underlying this change when impairment indicators are identified.
We validated that the change in CGUs has During the year, a detailed exercise has been been correctly applied to the grouping of We concluded that the performed by management to re-evaluate assets and assessment of the contractual cash impairment assessment the structure of the CGUs within the Viridor flows from customers to the revised CGUs performed by management and business.
The risk of impairment may arise if We tested the accounting entries arising from the impairment adjustments management uses inappropriate assumptions the revised CGUs from the calculations to the recognised and disclosed, as to group assets into CGUs or if impairment amounts recorded in the financial statements a result of the revised CGU indicators are not appropriately considered at for impairment reversals and charges structure, are appropriate.
We tested managements assessment, of This risk has decreased in the current year due impairment at the year end, to supporting to the alignment of CGUs, to reflect changes evidence and considered whether, in our in the waste market and reorientation of opinion, there were any other indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Viridors operations towards Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs, which has resulted in a higher We benchmarked the discount rates applied, level of headroom.
using our internal valuation experts to assist in our review of whether managements Critical accounting judgements and estimates assumptions are within an acceptable range made by management, in revising the CGUs based on comparative market data and testing assets for impairment, are disclosed We tested the clerical accuracy of the in note 4. impairment model by reperformance of the Audit Committee commentary is on page 68. calculation.
We also agreed input data into the impairment model and agreed cash flow forecasts to approved business plan We agreed whether disclosures made are in accordance with IFRS.
106 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk What we concluded to the Risk direction Our response to the risk Audit Committee Our procedures include: We concluded that the VALUATION OF LANDFILL RELATED PROVISIONS VIRIDOR assumptions supporting the We evaluated the forecast costs in the models, Landfill related provisions of 182.1 million landfill related provisions reflect agreeing these to supporting evidence such as 2015: 193.0 million are recorded in note managements best estimates, budgets and current performance 32 and consist of aftercare, restoration and informed by latest external and We assessed the reasonableness of material remediation provisions.
internal data, and consider that judgements made, including expected gas the provisions are within an Calculation of the aftercare provision involves generation and anticipated cost savings to acceptable range.
significant judgement in respect of the detailed plans and current performance expected period of aftercare, the level of We compared the reasonableness of key costs to be incurred and the discount rate to assumptions used in the calculation of the be used.
provisions, including the discount rates, Key areas of estimation for the restoration inflation rates, void space and remaining lives of provision include the expected restoration the sites to available market information costs, the void space to be filled and timing of We performed sensitivity analysis on these key site closure.
assumptions Judgement over the remedial action required We tested the aftercare, restoration and to comply with current environmental remediation provision models, and verified legislation, where breaches have been that the models are clerically accurate.
identified, is a key estimate for the remediation provision.
There is risk that provisions could be misstated if inappropriate assumptions, such as discount rates, are applied by management.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates made by management, when recognising landfill related provisions, are disclosed in note 4.
co. uk 2016 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk What we concluded to the Risk direction Our response to the risk Audit Committee Our procedures include: South West Water and REVENUE RECOGNITION Bournemouth Water ACROSS THE GROUPS South West Water and Bournemouth Water We concluded that the basis OPERATIONS We obtained an understanding of the process for of calculation of the measured The Groups material revenue streams the supply of measured services, meter reading income accrual is appropriate.
relate to the provision of water and and related billing in order to challenge the Management assumptions in sewerage services by South West completeness of adjustments to reflect the accrual respect of customer demand Water, water services by Bournemouth or deferral of revenue are within an acceptable range.
Water and revenue generated from We tested key controls linked to system generated the renewable energy, recycling and Amounts identified as information and around the estimation process for waste management services provided advance billing have been measured revenue by Viridor.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume correctly recorded.
We compared the accrued income to bills raised there is a risk of fraud relating to post year end for a sample of customers, and revenue recognition.
For the Group, compared managements history of estimating given targets associated to financial the accrued income balance to bills raised in the performance and also pressures to meet subsequent year market expectations, there is a risk that revenue might be overstated.
This risk We performed a walkthrough of the process for over revenue recognition specifically unmeasured revenue and the annual billing cycle arises in the following judgemental We performed controls testing related to areas, where there is opportunity to the calculation of system generated billing for overstate revenue: unmeasured revenue South West Water and We obtained details of the billing runs in February Bournemouth Water and March and verified whether there were any Income from measured water services other billing runs for unmeasured revenue that requires an estimation of the amount should be excluded from 2015 16 total revenue of unbilled charges at the year end.
We corroborated the key assumptions and This is calculated using a combination estimates made by management in recognising of system generated information, revenue, by obtaining internal and external data on based on previous customer volume factors that influence demand from customers usage, together with management judgements as to the likely impact We tested whether contract terms and conditions on usage of factors such as recent are met and revenue recognised at the correct time weather patterns.
The accrued income in accordance with IFRS balance at 31 March 2016 is 67.8 We performed detailed analytical procedures million 2015: 61.0 million by comparing revenue balances for the year For unmeasured revenue, the bills against expectation and obtaining support for for each calendar year are raised in significant variances advance for the next financial year.
We performed detailed testing of samples of Therefore there is a risk that revenues transactions to underlying bills for both types are recorded in the incorrect period, of revenue if the advance billing element is not In performing our journal testing, we paid increased properly excluded and carried forward attention to entries impacting revenue, particularly in the balance sheet.
those raised close to the balance sheet date.
108 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk What we concluded to the Risk direction Our response to the risk Audit Committee Viridor Viridor Viridor Calculations of accrued income on We compared the key assumptions and estimates We concluded that revenue has waste management contracts and made by management in recognising revenue to been recorded in the correct powergen revenue to be received prior year and monthly trends and to external accounting period, accrued involve estimation by management customer confirmations income has been appropriately recognised, and IFRIC 12 Accounting for revenue from long For material items we re-performed the calculation appropriately applied.
term service concession arrangements to confirm the accuracy of the accrued and deferred under IFRIC12 requires revenue to be income recorded by management recognised on construction, during In performing our journal testing, we paid increased service delivery and as a capital return attention to entries impacting revenue, particularly on the asset those raised close to the balance sheet date Recognising revenue in the correct We agreed whether the revenue recognition period for invoices raised close to policies adopted comply with IFRSs, in particular the the balance sheet date may involve requirements of IFRIC12 and whether margins used management judgement.
to recognise revenue are appropriate Critical accounting judgements and We performed cut off testing of invoices raised estimates made by management in prior to and after the balance sheet date to ensure applying the Groups revenue recognition revenue has been recognised in the correct period.
policy are disclosed in note 4.
VALUATION OF THE PROVISION Our procedures include: We concluded that the doubtful FOR DOUBTFUL DEBTS debt provision is within an We tested controls over the integrity of data and SOUTH WEST WATER acceptable range and reflects the report utilised to generate the ageing and As shown in note 22, there is a provision recent history of collection of categorisation of debt within South West Waters of 102.8 million 2015: 86.8 million at outstanding debts.
billing system the year end against gross trade debtors We tested historic data on collection rates and of 306.4 million 2015: 282.5 million.
evaluated how this data was used in the preparation The South West Water provision is of the bad debt provision calculated using a combination of system We corroborated the assumptions used by generated information on historic debt management in determining the amounts provided recovery rates and managements against the different categories and age of debt, by judgement of the future likely comparing these assumptions to historic collection recovery rates.
rates and by considering the impact of changes in There is a risk that the assumptions used the methods adopted operationally by management by management in calculating the bad to collect debt, and in the external environment debt provision may be inappropriate and We utilised collection information over the past the valuation of the provision against three years, to determine a range of the likely trade receivables may be misstated.
ultimate collection of debts existing at the balance Critical accounting judgements and sheet date and compared this to the provision estimates made by management, recorded by management.
in providing for doubtful debts, are disclosed in note 4.
co. uk 2016 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT There are three key locations where we perform audit TAILORING THE SCOPE procedures for the Group and its components, being Exeter, Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our Taunton and Bournemouth.
The Pennon Group Plc and South allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope West Water accounting functions are based in Exeter and for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables the audit teams of these components are led by the same us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Separate teams audit Viridor in Taunton and We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Bournemouth Water in Bournemouth.
The primary team group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the interacted regularly with all teams during various stages of the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit, including review of key working papers, review of work audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at performed to address the risks of material misstatement and each entity.
attendance at key meetings with management.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on six reporting components of the Group, we performed an audit the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
of the complete financial information of four components full scope component which were selected based on their size or MATERIALITY risk characteristics.
These components include Pennon Group The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Plc, Viridor, South West Water and Bournemouth Water, and or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence represent the principal business units within the Group.
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent 100% 2015: 99% of the Groups profit before taxation before of our audit procedures.
non-underlying items, 100% 2015: 99% of the Groups Revenue We determined materiality for the Group to be 10 million and 95% 2015: 95% of the Groups Total assets.
2015 10 million, which is 5% 2015 5% of profit before The remaining two components, individually and in aggregate, taxation before non-underlying items.
We believe that profit represent less than 1% of the Groups profit before taxation before taxation before non-underlying items provides us with before non-underlying items.
For these components, which an appropriate measure of the underlying performance of the include Peninsula Insurance and Peninsula Leasing, we performed Group.
We excluded non-underlying items on the basis that other procedures, including analytical review procedures, testing these are infrequent in occurrence and profit before taxation of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations for each after non-underlying items is not indicative of the underlying component to respond to potential risks of material misstatement performance of the Group.
We also note that market and analyst to the Group financial statements.
commentary on the performance of the Group uses the same measure.
We therefore, considered profit before taxation before CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR non-underlying items to be the most relevant performance metric There were two changes in scope from the prior year.
The first on which to base our materiality calculation.
was that Bournemouth Water, which was acquired by Pennon Group Plc in April 2015, was designated as full scope for the Reported profit before taxation 206.3 million current year audit.
The second change was that the scope Starting basis 2015 197.0 million determined for Peninsula Insurance was changed from specific scope to review scope, reflecting the fact that, with the growth Non-underlying items increase basis by Adjustments in Group activities, including profit before taxation before 5.0 million 2015 13.7 million non-underlying items, this component is now less than 1% of Totals 211.3 million 2015 210.7 million profit the Group.
before taxation before non-underlying items.
Materiality Materiality of 10 million 5% of profit before taxation before exceptional items 110 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The application of materiality at the individual account or balance An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatements exceeds materiality.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and assessment of the Groups overall control environment, have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 7.5 million the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 2015: 5 million.
We have increased our assessment of statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial performance materiality from 50% to 75% during the year, information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify reflecting the fact that the prior year was a first year audit, and material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and also based on our assessment of the Groups internal control to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect environment and the extent and nature of audit findings identified based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired in the prior period.
by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining consider the implications for our report.
audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component AND AUDITOR is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement Statement set out on page 101, the Directors are responsible for at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied materiality allocated to components was 1.49 million to 7.07 that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit million 2015: 1 million to 4.25 million.
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK REPORTING THRESHOLD and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the An amount below which identified misstatements are considered Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5 million 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 2015: 0.5 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, state to the companys members those matters we are required as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
co. uk 2016 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in We have no reporting the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Companies Act 2006 exceptions to report.
reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
We are required to review: We have no Listing Rules review exceptions to report.
requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 100, and longer-term viability, set out on page 55: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
112 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or We have no reporting to draw attention to in relation to: exceptions to report.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Debbie OHanlon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading 24 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Pennon Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
