PIGIT pp36 56 07 06 2016 13:39 Page 36 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plcs the Company affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2016 which comprise: Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2016 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year ended 31 March 2016 Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016 Related notes 1 to 20 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Income recognition misstatement Valuation of and entitlement to investments Management and performance fees Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Materiality Overall materiality of 9.6 million represents 1% of net assets.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
36 FINANCIAL Risk Our response to the risk: Income recognition We performed the following procedures: The Company has reported income of 40.2 Assessed the Managers and Bank of New York Mellons million 2015: 37.6 million.
BNYM systems and controls in this area and ascertained whether we could rely on them.
We focused on the recognition of revenue and its presentation in the financial statements given Agreed a sample of dividends received from the income the importance of the revenue return to report to an independent pricing source.
We identified incomplete or Agreed a sample of dividends paid by investee companies inaccurate income recognition as a risk through from an independent pricing source to the income report.
failure to recognise proper income entitlements Agreed 100% of accrued dividends to an independent or apply appropriate accounting treatment.
Performed a review of special dividends received.
We assessed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment i. e the classification between capital and income with reference to the rationale put forward by the companies declaring the special dividend.
What we have reported to the Audit Committee Having assessed the Managers and BNYMs systems and controls in the area we adopted a controls based approach for our audit of income recognition.
We noted no issues in agreeing the sample of dividend income from equity securities to and from the independent source and to the bank statement.
We noted no issues in agreeing the accrued dividends to an independent source.
We noted that the Company received 5 million of special dividends during the year all which have been treated as a revenue return.
We considered that this treatment was appropriate.
Risk Our response to the risk: Valuation of and entitlement to We performed the following procedures: investments Agreed 100% of the quoted investment valuations and The valuation of the portfolio of investments exchange rates to an independent source using our is comprised of listed investments in proprietary pricing tool operated by our team of pricing equity securities of 1,090.1 million specialists.
2015: 1,120.6 million and unquoted Reviewed pricing exception reports and investigated any investments of 27.5 million 2015: discrepancies.
For all unquoted investments we discussed the valuation The valuation of the assets held in the methodology with the Manager, considered the investment portfolio is the key driver of the appropriateness of the valuation techniques used and Companys net asset value and total return.
agreed the valuations to independent third party Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain valuation reports.
proper legal title of assets by the Company Ensured the unquoted valuations are performed in could have a significant impact on portfolio accordance with the Companys accounting policies as set valuation and, therefore, the return generated out in note 1 c v to the financial statements.
Performed a three way reconciliation of the investments held by the Company to the records of the administrator, custodian and depositary.
Obtained independent confirmation of all investments held from the custodian and depositary.
What we have reported to the Audit Committee For all listed investments we noted no material differences in the fair value of the investments and identified no exceptions or discrepancies.
For the portfolio of unquoted investments we read the independent third party valuation reports obtained by the Manager and the meeting minutes from the Invesco Pricing Committee as well as asking follow up questions to members of this Committee.
Additionally, we discussed the valuation of the unquoted investments with the Audit Committee.
We confirmed that the valuation techniques were in accordance with the Companys accounting policies as set out in note 1 c v to the financial statements.
We confirmed that all investments held by the Company agreed to the independent confirmations received from the custodian and depositary and that no discrepancies arose when performing a three way reconciliation of the investments held.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 PIGIT pp36 56 07 06 2016 13:39 Page 38 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Risk Our response to the risk: Management and performance fees We performed the following procedures: The Company paid management fees of Recalculated the management and performance fees 5.6 million 2015: 5.3 million and accrued a payable and ensured the calculations were in line with performance fee of 4 million 2015: 5.3 the Investment Management Agreement.
million based on the terms of the Investment Validated all key external inputs used in the Management Agreement.
calculations to third party source data.
The performance fee is payable annually in Agreed all management fees paid to invoices and arrears to the Manager, if the Companys subsequent bank payments, confirming the accuracy performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index of the year end liabilities.
to the extent that it exceeds any brought Confirmed the accuracy of the year end liability in forward under performance.
respect of the performance fee.
There is a risk that management and performance fees are not calculated correctly or the methodology is open to misinterpretation.
What we have reported to the Audit Committee We recalculated the management and performance fees payable and ensured that the calculations were in line with the Investment Management Agreement.
We validated all key inputs to source documentation and agreed the management fees to supporting invoices and bank statements, and confirmed the accuracy of the year end liability in respect of management and performance fees.
There were no areas of interpretation in respect of the management and performance fee calculation methodologies which required further discussion with the Manager or the Audit Committee.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determines our audit scope for the Company.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of company-wide controls, and other factors such as recent Service Organisation Control SOC reporting when assessing the level of work to be performed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 9.6 million, which is 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of net assets as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that as this is our first year as auditor to the Company that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 4.8 million.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.8 million for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
38 PIGIT pp36 56 07 06 2016 13:39 Page 39 FINANCIAL Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 480,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual financial report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 35, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual financial report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual financial report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual financial report appropriately PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 PIGIT pp36 56 07 06 2016 13:39 Page 40 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the Directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page 21, and longer-term viability, set out on page 14: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review We have no exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in the annual financial report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Disclosures in the annual financial report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual financial report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Sarah Williams Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 June 2016 Note: 1.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
