Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSIMMON PLC ONLY Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Persimmon Plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Persimmon Plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended then ended Group statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year Company cash flow statement for the year then ended then ended Group cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We performed the following procedures over this risk area: Based on our audit procedures we have Refer to Accounting policies We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes concluded that revenue is page 97 : and Note 5 of andidentify key controls: appropriately recognised, and the Consolidated Financial We tested key revenue controls: that there was no evidence of Statements page 102 management bias.
We performed procedures using EY bespoke data analytics The Group has reported tools to test the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the revenues for the year of general ledger by correlating sales postings with cash receipts 3,136.8m 2015 2,901.7m.
throughout the year: There is potential for material We assessed whether revenue was recorded in the correct period misstatement within revenue, by testing whether a sample of house sales recorded within particularly in relation to revenue 2weeks either side of the year end had legally completed: and being recorded in the wrong period, due to cut off errors or We validated any material manual journals to assess for management bias.
any evidence of management bias by corroborating to supporting documentation.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 88 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc only continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Inventory valuation and We performed the following procedures over this risk area: Based on our audit profit recognition procedures we have We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes concluded that the Refer to the Audit Committee andidentify key controls: Inventory balance and profit Report page 57 : Accounting We performed testing on the Groups controls over the birecognised in the year are not policies page 97 : and Note 17 monthly valuation process.
In testing these controls we attended materially misstated.
of the Consolidated Financial a valuation meeting to observe the level of rigour management Statements pages 112 and 113 apply in challenging the assumptions within the site valuations.
At 31 December 2016, the We inspected a sample of valuation meeting minutes in respect Inventory balance includes WIP of the valuation meetings held throughout the year.
This included of 617.2m 2015 517.9m ensuring that the appropriate individuals were in attendance at the and Land of 1,946.4m meeting together with confirming the process which is undertaken 20152,046.7m.
to challenge the margin, forecast costs to compete and any other factors that could impact on the margin and confirm that any The carrying value of Inventory updates were made to the forecasts: is determined by reference to a number of assumptions For a sample of development sites based on factors such as size which are subject to levels of and risk, we compared the estimated and actual costs and margin inherent estimation.
We validated the key drivers for changes in costs and margin in order to assess managements The carrying value of Inventory ability to forecast accurately: is assessed by management for impairment by reference We critically assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions and to current market inputs the commercial viability of sites as determined by management: and assumptions.
We assessed the appropriateness of any provisions included In performing the assessment, within the calculations, comparing movements to prior periods, management undertake bire-computing calculations and performing sensitivity analysis monthly valuations to determine onsites where the margin was close to breakeven: and the expected outcome of each We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in the development and hence identify Financial Statements.
The same judgements are also used to determine the margin on each development which is used to determine the profit to be recognised.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 89 Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Valuation of shared We performed the following procedures over this risk area: Based on our audit equity receivables procedures we have We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes and concluded that the available Refer to the Audit Committee identify key controls: for sale asset shared Report page 57 : Accounting We critically assessed the appropriateness of key assumptions equity receivable is not policies page 97 : and Note 16 such as: materially misstated.
of the Consolidated Financial House price inflation Statements page 112 Discount rate At 31 December 2016 the Group Recoverability was carrying shared equity We performed sensitivity analysis over key assumptions receivables on the balance sheet of 148.7m 2015 177.9m.
We tested a sample of amounts settled in the year to ensure that they had been appropriately derecognised The carrying value of these available-for-sale financial We confirmed the existence of a sample of amounts recognised on assets is based on a number the balance sheet by reference to the original loan documentation of assumptions which contain We assessed the integrity and arithmetical accuracy of the inherent uncertainties and which calculations within managements valuation model: and require management judgement.
We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in the Financial Statements.
The scope of our audit We performed an audit of Persimmon Plc, as if it were a single aggregated set of financial information.
Our work therefore covered 100% of Profit before tax, 100% of Revenue and 100% of Total assets.
This is the same approach adopted by KPMG in the prior year audit.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 38.7m, which is 5% of Profit Before Tax.
We believe that Profit Before Tax provides us with an appropriate basis for materiality and is the most relevant measure for stakeholders.
In the prior year, materiality was set at 31.2m based on 5% of Profit Before Tax.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 19.4m.
This reflects our normal practice in the case of a first year audit.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.9m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 90 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc only continued Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 86, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no exceptions reporting financial information in the annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 91 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companies Act 2006 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no exceptions reporting environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified to report.
no material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no exceptions review requirements to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 61, and longer-term viability, set out on page 30 and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have nothing material to reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Peter McIver Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 24 February 2017 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
