KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: Personal Asset Trust plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Personal Asset Trust plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at Company Statement of Financial Position as at 30 April 2016 30 April 2016 Consolidated Group Income Statement for the year Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended then ended Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the Company Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended year then ended Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then Related notes 1 to 17 to the financial statements ended Related notes 1 to 17 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material misstatement Existence and inappropriate valuation of the investment portfolio Incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or apply appropriate accounting treatment Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary Personal Assets Trust Administration Company Limited the Group Materiality Overall Group materiality of 6.4 million 2015: 6.1 million which represents 1% of total equity OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Page 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED What we concluded to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Existence and inappropriate valuation We performed the following For all investments, we noted no of the investment portfolio as procedures: material differences between the described on page 28 of the Report market value or exchange rates used We have independently checked of the Audit Committee and note 8 in the Companys investment 100% of the investment prices in the of the financial statements.
portfolio and an independent source.
The valuation of the portfolio at We have not identified any For those investments priced in 30 April 2016 was 600 million differences in holdings of securities currencies other than sterling we 2015: 594 million.
between the custodian and have agreed the exchange rates to an depositary confirmations and the The valuation of the assets held in independent source.
Companys underlying financial the investment portfolio is the key records.
We have independently obtained driver of the Groups net asset value confirmations from the Companys and total return.
Incorrect asset custodian and depositary to confirm pricing or a failure to maintain the existence of the investment proper legal title of the assets held by portfolio as at 30 April 2016. the Group could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
Incomplete or inaccurate income We performed the following We noted no issues in agreeing the recognition through failure to procedures: sample of dividend and interest recognize proper income entitlements receipts to and from independent We agreed, on a sample basis, or apply appropriate accounting source.
dividend and interest receipts to an treatment note 2 of the financial independent source.
We noted no issues in agreeing the statements.
accrued dividend and interest to an We agreed on a sample basis, Most of the Groups income is independent source and post year investee company dividend received in the form of dividends and end bank statements.
announcements and fixed interest interest from fixed income securities, coupon dates from an independent being 8 million 2015: 8 million source to the income recorded by the and 3 million 2015: 2 million Group.
We re-performed the calculation of Given the judgmental aspect of bond amortisation on inflation allocating special dividends between linked fixed income securities on a revenue and capital and the risk of sample basis.
management override from processing of topside journals, we We agreed all accrued dividends and consider this an area warranting interest to an independent source specific audit focus.
and to the post year end bank statements where possible, to ensure correct cut-off.
We have not noted any material special dividends during the year.
The risks of material misstatement as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported in our prior year auditors report.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
We have performed a full audit of the Group and all audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
Page 30 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.4 million 2015: 6.1 million, which is 1% 2015: 1% of total equity.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of total equity as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Group.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 4.8 million 2015: 4.8 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Group we also applied a separate testing threshold of 442,000 2015: 346,000 for the revenue column of the Group Income Statement, being 5% 2015: 5% of the profit before taxation.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 320,000 2015: 305,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Responsibility Statement in the Directors Report set out on pages 21 and 22, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Page 31 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Report of the Audit Committee set out on page 28 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no reporting financial information in the annual report and accounts is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report and accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no reporting exceptions to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent report.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no requirements exceptions to the Directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on report.
page 22, and longer-term viability, set out on page 22: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Page 32 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: nothing material to the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have add or to draw carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the attention to.
entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Sue Dawe Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 2 June 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Personal Assets Trust PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
