Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Pets at Home Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 113 to 171.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: Carrying value of goodwill 964.9m 2015: 952.0m Level of risk versus 2015: Consistent Refer to page 82 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 124 accounting policy and 134 and 139 financial disclosures.
The risk: Goodwill is a significant item within the Groups balance sheet.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, goodwill is one of the key judgemental areas within our audit.
Our response: Our audit procedures included testing of the Groups budgeting procedures upon which the forecasts are based and the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model.
We used our own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the discount rate used by the Group.
Assumptions and methodologies used by the Group were compared to externally derived data as well as our own assessment of key inputs such as projected economic growth, competition, cost inflation and discount rates.
We performed break-even analysis to understand the sensitivity of the conclusions reached to changes in assumptions and compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows and book value to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Carrying value of inventory 52.8m 2015: 48.5m Level of risk versus 2015: Consistent Refer to page 82 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 124 accounting policy and page 140 financial disclosures.
The risk: The Group has significant levels of inventory and a number of estimates are involved in valuing slow moving and obsolete inventories, some of which have a limited shelf life.
Furthermore there is uncertainty over changes in consumer preferences and spending patterns, which are primarily driven by wider trends in the pet product industry as well as seasonality.
There is a recoverability risk associated with new product launches and the judgement required in forecasting demand, including the possible change in demand between the time the inventory order is placed with the supplier and the date of sale.
Given the level of judgement and estimation involved, carrying value of inventory is considered to be a key audit risk.
Our response: Our procedures included assessing the principles and appropriateness of the Groups inventory provisioning policies based on our understanding of the business and the accuracy of previous provisioning estimates.
In assessing inventory provisions our procedures included testing the Groups controls designed to identify slow moving and obsolete inventories and comparison, by product, of inventory levels to sales data to assess whether slow moving and obsolete inventories had been appropriately identified, calculated and provided for by the Group.
We considered realisations of slow moving inventories during the year and compared these to the Groups expected recoveries for slow moving inventories at the year-end date.
We undertook data analytics procedures to compare inventory carrying value for all individual inventory lines to recent sales prices to assess the appropriateness of provisioning for items held at less than net realisable value.
We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of amounts recognised as provision against inventory during the period.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.5m 2015: 3.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of 92.1m, of which it represents 3.8% 2015: 3.4%.
Pro t before tax Materiality 92.1m 3.5m 3.5m Whole financial statements materiality 2.25m Materiality at components 28% 175k Misstatements reported to the Audit & Risk Committee We report to the Audit & Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 175,000 2015: 150,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We performed audits for Group reporting purposes at three of the Groups six reporting components, and a review of financial information, including enquiry, at a further component containing animal hospitals acquired within the year.
The latter was not individually significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, however we performed a review of financial information due to the acquisitions having been made in the year.
The level of coverage from audits for Group reporting purposes and review of the animal hospital component are illustrated below.
Revenue % Total assets % profit before tax % Audit for Group Audit for Group Audit for Group reporting purposes 98 reporting purposes 98 reporting purposes 99 Review of animal Review of animal Review of animal hospital component 1 hospital component 1 hospital component 1 Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Analysis at aggregated Group level 1 Group level 1 Group level 0 Pets at Home Group Plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements For the remaining two components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these components.
The audits of components for Group reporting purposes were performed by both the Group audit team and component auditors and the review was performed by component auditors.
The Group team instructed the component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team approved the component materiality of 2.25m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
Telephone conferences and meetings were held with component auditors which were not physically visited in order to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 74 to 81 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement, on page 71 concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit & Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 111 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 71, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 66 to 72 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 25 May 2016 Pets at Home Group Plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
