98 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report To the members of Playtech plc Opinion on financial statements of Playtech Plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the: Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows: and Notes to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of the Company, as a body Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements and significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are, by their nature, inherently uncertain see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
We primarily focussed our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, including the risk of management override and bias, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 We set out below the risks that had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of audit focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committees consideration of these matters is set out on page 68: Title Risk Our response We assessed the design and implementation Revenue The Group has a number of revenue streams.
The recognition details of the accounting policies applied during the of the controls over the Groups revenue cycles.
period are given in note 2 to the financial statements.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by the Group comply with IFRS as adopted by Management make certain judgements around revenue recognition and the treatment of contractual the European Union and Industry standard.
arrangements for revenue streams entered into by both the Gaming and Financials divisions.
There is a potential We tested revenue through substantive procedures.
Our risk that revenue is recorded incorrectly from a timing work included the use of IT audit data analytic techniques perspective and inappropriately recognised on a gross to underpin our substantive testing of the revenue versus net basis.
recognised by both the Gaming and Financials divisions.
We reviewed a sample of key contracts entered into during the year to assess whether the revenue had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, appropriately from a timing perspective and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure implications.
Impairment In accordance with IAS 36, the Group monitors the We considered whether there were any indications of impairment in respect of intangible assets.
of Goodwill, carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles for capitalised indications of impairment.
The Group performs annual development impairment reviews for goodwill, for other intangibles The audit team, which includes valuation specialists, costs and other where there are indicators of impairment and for challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models prepared by intangibles capitalised development costs relating to projects not launched as at the year end.
management and applied sensitivities to assess the potential impairment of goodwill and those assets where Impairment reviews require significant judgement from indications of impairment were present.
Our work was based on our assessment of the historical accuracy management and are inherently based on assumptions in respect of future profitability.
of the Groups estimates in previous periods, our understanding of the commercial prospects of the assets, IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency assets not yet available for use such as projects in development for impairment.
of assumptions across the impairment reviews.
If the carrying value of these assets exceeds their We selected a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance sheet date and confirmed that there remains a recoverable amount there is a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these assets.
Further to this we reviewed the results of managements impairment review of these assets on a portfolio basis.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosure provided in the Group financial statements.
100 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report continued To the members of Playtech plc Title Risk Our response Compliance The Group has compliance obligations that range from We considered how the Group monitors legal and risk Legal, administration of their licences to assessing the impact regulatory developments and their assessment of the regulatory and of changes in country-specific and pan-regional rules potential impact on the business, and also considered taxation and regulations on its businesses.
the internal and external advice taken in respect of these developments.
We discussed with Management how The nature of the e-commerce business and operational they manage, control and operate Group companies in structure of the Playtech Group requires management the countries in which they are registered.
This included judgement with regard to the assessment and how the Group manages its tax strategy as part of the interpretation of domestic and international tax laws.
overall business planning and how the Group monitors The taxation of e-commerce is still an evolving matter the rules and practices governing the taxation of for tax authorities.
e-commerce activity that is evolving in many countries.
The Group makes certain provisions and disclosures We discussed with the Groups Compliance and Legal required under IFRS for outstanding legal and regulatory teams whether there were any known instances of disputes based on Managements best estimate of material breaches in regulatory and licence compliance where there is a probable outflow of economic benefits.
that required disclosure or required provisions to be Where the Group does not consider the likelihood of made in the financial statements.
We discussed the a provision being probable, the Group will disclose the assertions of the Groups Compliance and Legal teams existence of a contingent liability unless that likelihood with the Groups principal external legal advisors, of occurrence is considered to be remote when no with no material matters to report.
As part of the audit team, we have tax specialists who Given the continual changes in the regulatory reviewed and evaluated the risks in the jurisdictions environment of the gambling and financial trading sectors in which Playtech has a significant physical presence.
in many countries across the world, there is a risk that As part of this process we liaised with the local audit potential material legal, regulatory or taxation matters teams and tax specialists in those jurisdictions to are not disclosed or provided for.
assess the provisioning for current and deferred taxes.
We considered the latest externally prepared advice received by management with regard to any exposure to taxation in existing or proposed territories in which the Group operates or intends to operate.
We reviewed disclosures prepared by the Group in respect of contingent liabilities.
Related party There is a risk that disclosures in respect of related party We assessed the design and implementation of the transactions transactions are incomplete or that the assertion that Groups policies and procedures in respect of the related party transactions are on an arms length basis capturing of related party transactions.
We obtained a list of related parties from Management.
We gave consideration to the completeness of the list based on our knowledge of related parties and confirmations received by the Company from identified related parties.
We ensured all transactions and balances with those entities identified as related parties were disclosed in accordance with IAS 24, including consideration of whether material transactions with the substantial shareholder or companies under their control were correctly disclosed as being on an arms length basis.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Title Risk Our response Business The Group completed the following principal acquisitions We challenged the assumptions underpinning combinations in the year: the significant judgements and estimates used by management in the assessment of the fair values of the Quickspin AB assets and liabilities acquired and consideration paid Patelle Limited Best Gaming Technology, BGT including: underlying cash flow projections, royalty rates, ECM Systems Holdings discount rates applied and the long term growth rates.
Consolidated Financial Holdings A S CFH We used our valuation specialists to review and Management are required to make significant evaluate the identified intangible assets and consider judgements in assessing the fair values of consideration the judgemental areas and those subject to significant including contingent consideration whether arising on estimation.
acquisitions made in the current year or previous years and of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Management We challenged managements assessment of the have engaged external valuations experts to undertake fair value of contingent consideration in respect of the purchase price allocation exercise required.
acquisitions made in the current year and previous periods, including principally the level of expected In respect of the acquisitions of BGT, ECM and CFH, put profitability over the forecast period.
and call options were agreed as part of the acquisitions in relation to the shareholdings retained by the vendors We considered the terms of the put and call options being 10%, 10% and 30% respectively.
In accordance agreements and the accounting treatment adopted with IFRS, management assessed whether the put and to confirm that requirements of accounting standards call option is at fair value and the resulting accounting have been met.
We considered the valuation applied treatment.
Management determined that the terms of the to each of the put and call options including the basis options did not meet the definition of being at fair value of valuation, the key inputs and the discount rate applied.
under the standard and as such the fair value of the shares which are subject to the put and call option has been recognised as a liability of the Group.
As such there is a risk in respect of the accounting for and the valuation applied to the options.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements performed in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including the groups system of internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements at the group level.
In determining the scope of our audit we considered the level of work to be performed at each component in order to ensure sufficient assurance was gained to allow us to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group as a whole.
We tailored the extent of the work to be performed at each component, either by us, as the Group audit team, component auditors within the BDO network or non-BDO member firms, based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at each component.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Classification of components The 3 components that are considered significant defined as those that were greater than 15% of Adjusted EBITDA, or where the risks of the component were significantly different to the group risks were audited by the Group audit team.
102 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report continued To the members of Playtech plc The Group audit team centrally performed the audit of 100% of group revenue and the audit of 100% of intangible assets including development costs using the materiality levels set out below.
For the 22 components not considered significant, the component auditors were asked to perform review procedures or specific scope procedures on certain balances based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
Review and specific scope procedures were performed by the Group audit team or BDO network firms on 18 reporting components and by 4 non-BDO member firms on a further 4 reporting components.
Summary audit scope Revenue Total assets Adjusted EBITDA Full audit Specific procedures Group level procedures 100% 97% 93% Based on the above scope we were able to conclude that sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis to form our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
Level of materiality applied and rationale We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be the critical performance measure for the Group.
Using this benchmark we set materiality at 13.0m 2015: 12.5m being 4.4% 2015: 5% of Adjusted EBITDA.
In setting this level of materiality we considered the quantum of materiality was appropriate in comparison to other benchmarks: 1.8% of revenue: 0.6% of total assets.
Our materiality level is higher than in previous years reflecting the continued growth in the results of the Group.
Performance materiality was set at 75% of materiality.
In setting the level of performance materiality we considered a number of factors including the expected total value of known and likely misstatements based on past experience and other factors and Managements attitude toward proposed adjustments.
Component materiality We set materiality for each component of the Group based on a percentage of materiality dependent on the size and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement of that component.
Component materiality ranged from 3.15m to 6.3m.
Agreement with the Audit Committee We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of 500k.
We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information We have nothing to report in the Report and Accounts is: in respect of these matters.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Report and Accounts appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement We have nothing to report relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of these matters.
containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
The Listing Rules also require that we review the directors statements set out on page 87 regarding going concern and longer term viability.
Statement regarding the directors assessment of principal risks, going concern and longer term viability of the company We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Matthew White For and on behalf of BDO LLP Chartered Accountants London United Kingdom 22 February 2017 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
