4 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc A Aud udit it S Sc co op pe e Report on the financial statements The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Our opinion Company and engages Polar Capital LLP the In our opinion, Polar Capital Technology Trusts financial Manager to manage its assets statements the financial statements : We conduct our audit of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys at the offices of HSBC Securities Services the affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of its profit and cash Administrator who the Manager has, with the consent flows for the year then ended: of the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account as adopted by the European Union: and the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the have been prepared in accordance with the accounting processes and controls, and the industry requirements of the Companies Act 2006. in which the Company operates.
What we have audited A Ar re ea as of f s of fo oc cu us s The financial statements, included within the Annual Income from investments.
Report and Financial Statements the Annual Valuation and existence of investments.
Report, comprise: T Th he s e sc co op pe of o e of ou ur a r au ud di it a t an nd o d ou ur a r ar re ea as of f s of fo oc cu us s the Balance Sheet as at 30 April 2016: We conducted our audit in accordance with the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland then ended: ISAs UK & Ireland.
the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the ended: and financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the notes to the financial statements, which include a the directors made subjective judgements, for example in summary of significant accounting policies and other respect of significant accounting estimates that involved explanatory information.
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also Certain required disclosures have been presented addressed the risk of management override of internal elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in Our audit approach the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our M Ma at te er rial iali it ty y audit to address these specific areas in order to provide Overall materiality: 8.0 million which represents 1% an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any of net assets.
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 78 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus In Inc co om me f e fr ro om i m in nv five es st tm me en nt ts s Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, page 87 We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Accounting Policies and page 92 Notes to the Accounts.
compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and performed testing to check that income had been accounted ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We considered this risk to specifically relate to the risk of overstating investment gains and the We found that the accounting policies implemented were in misclassification of dividend income as capital rather than accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, revenue due to the pressure management may feel to achieve and that income has been accounted for in accordance with capital growth in line with the objective of the Company.
We focused on the valuation of investments with respect to We understood and assessed the design and implementation gains on investments and the accuracy and completeness of key controls surrounding income recognition.
of dividend income recognition and its presentation in the In addition, we tested dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend Income Statement as set out in the requirements of The rates from a sample of investments to independent third party Association of Investment Companies Statement of sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
required reporting to those charged with governance.
To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for a sample of investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the classification of income and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
V Va al lu uat ati io on a n an nd e d ex xi is st te en nc ce of i e of in nv five es st tm me en nt ts s Refer to page 68 Report of the Audit Committee, page 89 We 100% tested the valuation of the listed investments by Accounting Policies and page 96 Notes to the Accounts.
agreeing the prices used in the valuation to independent third The investment portfolio at 30 April 2016 comprised listed party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our testing equity investments of 764 million and unlisted investments which required reporting to those charged with governance.
We focused on the valuation and existence of We agreed the existence of investments to independent third investments because investments represent the principal party sources by agreeing the holdings of investments to an element of the net asset value as disclosed in the Statement independent confirmation from the Depositary, HSBC Bank of Financial Position in the financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 79 4 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc continued H Ho ow w w we t e ta ai il lo or re ed t d th he a e au ud di it s t sc co op pe e G Go oin ing g c co on nce cer rn n We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on directors statement, set out on page 76, in relation to the financial statements as a whole, taking into account going concern.
We have nothing to report having the types of investments within the Company, the performed our review.
involvement of the Manager and Administrator, the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report accounting processes and controls, and the industry to you if we have anything material to add or to draw in which the Company operates.
attention to in relation to the directors statement about M Ma at te er rial iali it ty y whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going The scope of our audit was influenced by our application concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We set certain quantitative thresholds have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
These, together with qualitative As noted in the directors statement, the directors have considerations, helped us to determine the scope of concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going procedures on the individual financial statement line concern basis presumes that the company has adequate items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of resources to remain in operation, and that the directors misstatements, both individually and on the financial intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the statements as a whole.
As part of our audit we Based on our professional judgement, we determined have concluded that the directors use of the going materiality for the financial statements as a whole concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all as follows: future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
materiality Other required reporting How we 1% of net assets.
determined it Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a benchmark generally accepted auditing practice for C Com omp pa an ni ie es s A Ac ct t 2 20 00 06 6 opi opin ni ion on applied investment trust audits, in the absence of In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the indicators that an alternative benchmark course of the audit: would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and the information given in the Strategic Report and consistent year on year basis for our audit.
the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report with the financial statements: to them misstatements identified during our audit above the Strategic Report and the Directors Report 400,000 2015: 397,000 as well as misstatements have been prepared in accordance with applicable below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 80 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 76, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole exceptions to report.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 67, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters exceptions to report.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 46 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the material to add or company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 77 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they material to add or have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to to draw attention to.
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 81 4 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies and explanations received Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any report to you if, in our opinion: other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where we have not received all the information and expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
explanations we require for our audit: or What an audit of financial statements involves adequate accounting records have not been kept, or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts returns adequate for our audit have not been received and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to from branches not visited by us: or give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the Directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Remuneration Report to be audited are not in fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: agreement with the accounting records and returns.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the We have no exceptions to report arising from companys circumstances and have been consistently this responsibility.
applied and adequately disclosed: Directors remuneration the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er rat ati io on r n re ep po or rt t made by the directors: and C Co om mp pa an ni ie es A s Ac ct 2 t 20 00 06 o 6 op pi in ni io on n the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the O Ot th he er C r Co om mp pa an ni ie es A s Ac ct 2 t 20 00 06 r 6 re ep po or rt ti in ng g disclosures in the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors We test and examine information, using sampling and remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the Corporate governance statement effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the combination of both.
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to information in the Annual Report to identify material report having performed our review.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially Responsibilities for the financial incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the statements and the audit knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Our responsibilities and those of the directors audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material As explained more fully in the Responsibilities Statement misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the set out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic preparation of the financial statements and for being Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Allan McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us for and on behalf of  LLP to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Standards for Auditors.
Edinburgh This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for 13 July 2016 and only for the companys members as a body in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 82
