Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: { Polypipe Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: { the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: { the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and { the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Polypipe Group plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Cash flow statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material { Revenue recognition and recognition of customer rebates.
misstatement Audit scope { We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all components of the Group.
{ The components where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit Before Tax, 100% of Revenue and 100% of Total Assets.
Materiality { Overall Group materiality of 2.7m 2015: 2.3m which represents 5% of Profit Before Tax 2015: 5% of the Groups Profit Before Tax excluding non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets and profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR FINANCIALS TEGIC REPORT OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue recognition and recognition of customer rebates The timing of revenue recognition is We validated any material manual We have concluded that revenue is relevant to the reported performance of journals either side of the year end to appropriately recognised in the correct the Group as a whole and also to the assess for any evidence of management accounting period and found no completeness of rebate expense and bias by checking to supporting evidence of management bias.
related year end liabilities as discussed documentation.
We have concluded that the customer below.
There is opportunity to misstate We tested the accuracy of revenue cut rebates expense and liability are the recording of revenue between off around the year end.
Our work appropriately recognised and that periods in order to influence reported comprised the agreement of sales amounts estimated are within an results.
transactions from either side of the year acceptable range.
Furthermore, as described in Note 3 end to supporting documentation.
to the Group financial statements, the We also performed procedures Groups pricing structure includes rebate where applicable using EY bespoke arrangements with customers.
Some of data analytics tools to test the these arrangements involve estimation appropriateness of journal entries when determining the amount to be recorded in the general ledger by recognised as an expense in the year correlating sales postings with cash and a liability at the year end.
This is receipts throughout the year.
particularly the case where the Group is We tested the accuracy and reliant on information from customers appropriateness of rebate provision which may not be available at the time calculations by agreeing a sample the liabilities are recognised.
of amounts recognised to terms of Refer also to page 50 Report of the agreements and other supporting Audit Committee.
We also compared year end customer rebate provisions and rebate costs in the year to prior year amounts and expectations.
We compared a sample of rebate payments made in the year with amounts provided as at 31 December 2015 which, together with a review of ageing, gave us assurance over the accuracy of amounts previously provided.
We assessed the completeness of rebate amounts recognised by reference to the Groups revenues in the year.
In the prior year, our auditors report also included a risk of material misstatement in relation to acquisitions.
In the current year, there were no acquisitions so this risk has been removed.
69 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account factors such as size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the twelve reporting components of the Group, we selected all twelve components covering entities within the UK, France, Italy and Dubai, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all twelve components selected full scope components.
Therefore for the current year, the full scope components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% of the Groups Profit Before Tax 2015: 100% of the Groups Profit Before Tax excluding non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets and profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment, 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 100% 2015: 100% of the Groups Total Assets.
Changes from the prior year The new business unit opened in Dubai in 2016 has been included within the full scope components this year.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the twelve full scope components, audit procedures were performed on nine of these directly by the primary audit team, which was responsible for all UK locations.
For the three full scope components where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle, a visit was undertaken by the primary audit team to the component team in France.
This visit involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, attending the closing meeting and reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.7 million 2015: 2.3 million, which is 5% of Profit Before Tax 2015: 5% of the Groups Profit Before Tax excluding non-underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets and profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
We believe that Profit Before Tax provides us with the most relevant measure of Group profitability.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR FINANCIALS TEGIC REPORT Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2015: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.0m 2015: 1.7m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the past history of few misstatements indicating a lower risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4m to 2.0m 2015: 0.3m to 1.7m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2015: 0.1m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statements set out on pages 65 and 109, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
71 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP plc OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: { the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and { based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: { based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 41 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures and in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority: is consistent with the financial statements: and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirement: { based on the work undertaken rules 7.2.
7 in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees have been complied with if applicable.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no Ireland reporting information in the Annual Report and Accounts is: exceptions to report.
{ materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or { apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or { otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no 2006 reporting environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material exceptions to misstatements in the Strategic Report, Directors Report or Corporate Governance report.
Statement set out on pages 4, 62 and 40, respectively.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: { adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or { the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or { certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or { we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or { a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
com Stock Code: PLP STRA OUR FINANCIALS TEGIC REPORT Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no { the Directors statement in relation to going concern, and longer-term viability, requirements exceptions to both on page 62: and report.
{ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to We have nothing reporting add or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention { the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have to.
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: { the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: { the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and { the Directors explanation in the Annual Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Stuart Watson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor Leeds 30 March 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Polypipe Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
