34 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements indePendent auditors rePort TO THE MEMBERS OF PZ CUSSONS PLC Report on the Group financial statements our opinion In our opinion, PZ Cussons Plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Governance and Financial Statements 2016 the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 May 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
our audit approach overview Overall Group materiality: 5m which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
materiality We conducted audit work in the six countries in which the Group has significant operations.
The reporting units we audited accounted for 76% of Group revenue and 81% ofGroup profit before tax and exceptional items.
audit scope The Group engagement team visited the Groups largest overseas component, Nigeria, to discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit team andlocalmanagement as well as attending the audit clearance meetings.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
areas of focus Accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items.
Accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other trade promotional spend.
Determination of direct tax provisions.
Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension scheme obligations.
6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
indd 34 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 35 the scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
area of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets We evaluated the process by which management prepared its cash Refer to page 28 of the statement of corporate governance, page 48 flow forecasts and compared them against the latest Board approved ofthestatement of accounting policies and note 10 of the consolidated forecasts and found them to be consistent.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasts by comparing the The Group has goodwill of 62.5m and other indefinite lived intangible forecasts used in the prior year value-in-use models to the actual performance of the CGUs in the current year.
These procedures assets of 294.6m as at 31 May 2016 which are required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management has allocated these enabled us to determine the accuracy of managements forecasting process.
Through this work actual performance of the CGUs for the assets to individual cash generating units CGUs.
There is judgment around how these CGUs are identified.
year ended 31 May 2016 was identified as being broadly in line with the forecasts used as part of our work over assessing the carrying value in There is further judgment around the determination of the the prior year.
recoverable amount of the CGUs, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs-to-sell.
We focused on this area because the We evaluated the assumptions used in the profit and cash flow determination of the recoverable amounts involves judgments and forecasts included in managements value-in-use calculations.
We estimates based on managements view of the future results and compared forecast growth rates with historical performance as well prospects of the CGUs, the appropriate discount rates and other key as gaining an understanding of key factors and judgments applied in assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth rates in the short determining future growth rate assumptions.
We inspected detailed and long-term, and specific risk factors applied to the CGUs.
forecasts for each CGU which provided evidence of the key drivers for growth included within the cash flow forecasts.
As the Groups CGUs relate to different geographies, including the UK, We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, Nigeria, Greece and Australia, specific consideration needs to be given to macroeconomic and CGU specific risks in determining the most including the specific risk factors applied to the Nutricima and Greece appropriate assumptions to adopt.
Specific risk factors in Nigeria CGUs to reflect the specific risks associated with those CGUs.
The include currency risk, inflation differentials and country risk premium discount rates applied were consistent with those of peers and due to the trading environment in Nigeria.
Specific risk factors in industry comparators for all CGUs.
Greece included the general economic environment, long-term We challenged the Directors on the appropriateness of their sensitivity growth and inflation factors.
calculations and also applied our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows, discount rates and long-term growth rates to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually, or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets.
From the work performed over all CGUs other than Nutricima and Greece, no reasonably possible change in assumptions that would give rise to a possible impairment was identified.
For the Nutricima and Greece CGUs we considered that reasonably possible changes in cash flow growth rates could arise that would result in a potential impairment, but did not identify sufficient evidence for an impairment to be required in the year ended 31May2016.
We reviewed managements disclosures in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and considered them to be consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 and sufficient to provide the information required to assess the changes in key assumptions required for impairment.
indd 35 18 08 2016 16:30 36 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements indePendent auditors rePort TO THE MEMBERS OF PZ CUSSONS PLC continued area of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus accounting for, and presentation of, exceptional items We challenged the Directors rationale for the designation of certain Refer to page 29 of the statement of corporate governance, page 48 items as exceptional and assessed such items against the Groups ofthestatement of accounting policies and note 3 of the consolidated accounting policy and consistency of treatment with prior years.
Weconsidered the items identified to materially meet the Groups definition of exceptional items, and specifically considered the In recent years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional nature of the supply chain optimisation and systems and structure items which are disclosed separately within the Consolidated Income programmes, and considered them to be exceptional given the nature Statement and are excluded from managements reporting of the and magnitude of costs incurred.
underlying performance of the Group.
A one off loss on the provision for a large European customer was The nature and reporting of these exceptional items is explained agreed as exceptional given the one off nature and magnitude of the within the Group accounting policy and includes restructuring costs, loss incurred in the year.
gains or losses arising on acquisitions or disposals and gains or losses resulting from non-recurring and one off events.
The foreign exchange loss suffered in Nigeria arose as a result of currency restrictions which required the Group to acquire US Dollars This year the Group identified 19.3m of exceptional items before tax from secondary markets.
Given the restrictions in place and the which primarily relate to: magnitude of the loss, we agreed with the Directors conclusion that costs incurred as part of the completion of the Groups supply the loss met the Groups definition of an exceptional.
chainoptimisation and structure and systems programmes: We considered whether there were items that were recorded within a one off bad debt in respect of a major European customer: and underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in nature and a one off foreign exchange loss in Nigeria due to currency restrictions.
should have been included within exceptional items and found no such items.
We focused on this area, specifically to assess whether the items identified by management meet the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, because the identification of such items requires judgment by the Directors.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items isimportant to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting withinthe Annual Report.
Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the accounting for customer rebates, discounts and other trade promotional spend controls and systems related to the trade spend process and Refer to page 29 of the statement of corporate governance and selectively testing those controls we identified as being key and on page 54 ofthestatement of accounting policies.
Testing of controls included checking appropriate authorisation for promotions and rebates and controls As is industry practice, in each country in which the Group operates, over the matching of customer claims against accrued amounts.
but primarily in the UK and Australia, there are various types of No significant control deficiencies were identified.
complex commercial arrangements trade spend promotions with retailers and other customers that have a range of terms As part of our involvement in component teams work, the Group such as promotions, rebates and discounts.
engagement team was specifically involved in determining the audit approach in this area to be satisfied that sufficient focus was placed on Estimates of the obligations at a reporting date in connection with the more judgmental areas.
As a result of this involvement we were these arrangements trade spend accruals are material and can be satisfied that, whilst complex, the area was well understood and judgmental.
The judgments applied impact the reported results of the sufficient focus was placed on this area of risk.
reporting unit, its operating segment and the Group, and in particular impact the calculation of net revenue and reporting unit operating Audit procedures performed by individual component audit teams profit, both of which are key performance indicators for management included the following testing on a sample basis: incentive schemes.
evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend balances by comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred.
The Trade spend promotions have varying terms, some of which are testing performed highlighted no material differences: supported by annual contracts, and others which are based on shorter term arrangements entered into during the year.
In addition, the level agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting and timing of promotions varies from period to period, and activity can documentation such as promotion and rebate agreements and span over a year end.
Testing performed found that estimates were supported by appropriate supporting evidence: We focused on this area due to the complexity and level of judgment testing trade spend transactions around the year end to determine required in order to derive the estimates: for example the date of whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period.
shipment to the retailer and period over which the promotion will run Testing performed found no material amounts had been may differ, and details of the retailers EPOS data may be required in recognised in the incorrect period: order to determine the proportion of trade spend actually committed at the reporting date.
Accordingly, our focus included whether the testing of post year end claims from customers and post year end accruals were complete, whether relevant spend was recorded in the credit notes raised and agreeing that where claims credit notes correct period and how the accruals and income statement charges related to pre year end promotions they had been adequately accrued.
Testing performed did not identify any material amounts were valued.
that were not provided for: and testing aged customer receivable balances to identify any amounts that remained unpaid as trade spend deductions had been taken.
Where identified, the amounts were tested to check that corresponding accruals existed.
Testing performed did not identify any material amounts that were not provided for.
indd 36 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 37 area of focus how our audit addressed the area of focus determination of direct tax provisions We obtained a detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy Refer to page 29 of the statement of corporate governance, page 50 and assessed key tax risks related to business and legislative ofthestatement of accounting policies and note 7 of the consolidated developments.
We understood material and one off transactions financial statements.
undertaken by the Group, in conjunction with our tax experts, to assess any potential tax risk not identified and provided for by the The Group operates in a number of overseas territories, including Directors, and none were identified.
some with rapidly developing or highly ambiguous tax legislation, and regularly undertakes transactions with potentially complex We obtained explanations from the Directors and obtained orsubjective tax implications.
This includes, but is not limited to, corroborative evidence, including communication with local tax acquisitions, disposals, reorganisations and inter-group cross border authorities where available and copies of tax advice obtained from trading arrangements.
Where the amount of tax payable or receivable the Groups external tax advisors, regarding the tax treatment applied is uncertain the Group establishes provisions based on the Directors to material transactions and the corresponding provisions recorded.
best estimates of the probable amount payable, or receivable.
We challenged the key underlying assumptions, particularly in We focused on the judgments made by the Directors in assessing the territories where structuring transactions have occurred in the year: quantification and likelihood of these potential exposures and having due regard to correspondence between the Group and local tax therefore the level of provisions required against them.
We considered the direct tax provisions in place to be we focused on the impact of disposals and restructuring, which could appropriate on the basis of the Directors best estimate of the materially impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
information available, and the territories in which the Group operates.
Selection of assumptions in relation to defined benefit pension For the UK and Indonesian defined benefit pension plans, we scheme obligations challenged the reasonableness of key actuarial assumptions as follows: Refer to page 29 of the statement of corporate governance, page 53 we compared the discount and inflation rates to our internally ofthestatement of accounting policies and note 23 of the consolidated developed benchmarks based on market conditions and financial statements.
expectations at the balance sheet date: The Group operates material defined benefit pension plans in the we assessed other assumptions, including pension increases, salary UKand certain overseas territories, principally Indonesia.
An overall increases and mortality, based on market conditions and comparison surplus of 34.3m is recognised in the financial statements.
The Group across the wider pensions industry.
employs independent actuarial specialists in calculating the valuation We also tested whether the methods used by management to of scheme liabilities.
determine key assumptions had been consistently applied year-onWe focused on this area because the magnitude of the gross pension year and evaluated the rationale for any changes in approach.
We plan liabilities is significant in the context of both the overall balance tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing liability for accuracy, sheet and the results of the Group.
taking into account the movements in key assumptions over the year and any changes made to benefits provided within the plans.
Measurement of the pension plan liabilities requires a significant level of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate The results of our audit work indicated that the financial and assumptions.
Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact demographic assumptions used by management were within a on the gross liability recorded.
how we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, andtheindustry in which the Group operates.
The Group has operations in a range of different geographies and is structured across three main regions being Africa Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana, Europe UK, Poland, Greece and USA and Asia Indonesia, Australia, Thailand, MESA, Singapore andHong Kong.
Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions consists of a number of management reporting units which are consolidated by Group management.
The financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units representing the Groups operating businesses within these geographic-based segments and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified twelve reporting units from across the three geographical regions which required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
These reporting units subjected to audit accounted for 81% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items and 76% of the Groups revenue.
Eight of the twelve reporting units are audited by five component Auditor teams, with the remaining four audited by the Group engagement team.
The Group engagement team visited one of the five local component teams, being the largest overseas component, Nigeria, to meet with local management, discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit team, as well as attending the audit clearance meetings.
For those countries not visited, we attended the audit clearance meetings via conference call and had regular communication with the local teams during their audit.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings, review and discussion of reporting received from local component teams, together with the work performed at a Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
indd 37 18 08 2016 16:30 38 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements indePendent auditors rePort TO THE MEMBERS OF PZ CUSSONS PLC continued materiality Going concern The scope of our audit was influenced by our application Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern.
These, together with qualitative considerations, Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the in relation to the Directors statement about whether they financial statements as a whole.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material Based on our professional judgment, we determined to add or to draw attention to.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Overall Group materiality 5.0m 2015: 5.4m.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to exceptional items.
remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before tax and exceptional items was selected as this provides for at least one year from the date the financial statements us with a consistent year-on-year were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the basis for determining materiality Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
and, we believe, is the metric most However, because not all future events or conditions can be commonly used by shareholders as predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the a body in assessing Group performance.
Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.25m 2015: 0.25m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
other required reporting consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which thefinancial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 32, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 28 and 29, as required We have no exceptions to report.
byprovision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
indd 38 18 08 2016 16:30 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 39 the directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 28 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet itsliabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
adequacy of information and explanations received Responsibilities for the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to statements and the audit you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information our responsibilities and those of the directors and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements directors remuneration and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further only for the companys members as a body in accordance with provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no performed our review.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
indd 39 18 08 2016 16:30 40 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 Financial Statements indePendent auditors rePort TO THE MEMBERS OF PZ CUSSONS PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2016 and on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
ian morrison senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 26 July 2016 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
