Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response: Our audit procedures included, amongst others, 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls in place We have audited the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for to manage the commercial, technical and financial aspects of the the year ended 31 March 2016 which comprise the Consolidated Groups long-term contracts.
For a sample of significant contracts, Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive determined on the basis of technical and commercial complexity, Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the financial significance and profitability, we also obtained an Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated understanding of the status of the contract through discussions Statement of Cash Flows, the parent company Balance Sheet and with contract project teams and Directors at a Group and divisional the related notes.
In our opinion: level, attendance at project teams contract review meetings, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state and examining externally available evidence, such as customer of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at correspondence, where relevant.
On a sample basis we examined 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, challenging the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence including past accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as experience of the contracts and the extent of technical or commercial adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : risk identified.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures in the parent company financial statements have been properly respect of the analysis of revenue and material contingent liabilities prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including properly reflected the evidence obtained.
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Carrying value of US Global Products goodwill 37.9m the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the 2015: 67.2m Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Refer to page 71 Report of the Audit Committee, page 108 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement accounting policy note and page 121 financial disclosures.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The risk: The carrying value of goodwill is assessed for impairment at our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
In the period an impairment has been recognised to the Recurring risks goodwill associated with the US Global Products Cash-Generating Recognition of revenues and profits on long-term contracts Unit.
There is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting the future 679.0m 2015: 685.1m cash flows due to the variability of future sales and product mix.
Judgement is required in the selection of an appropriate discount Refer to page 71 Report of the Audit Committee, page 107 rate used for the purposes of the impairment calculations.
Whilst the accounting policy note and page 113 financial disclosures.
projections anticipate future growth based on 2016 performance, there remains uncertainty around the impact of new revenue streams The risk: A significant proportion of the Groups revenues and profits and demand for the current portfolio of products.
are derived from long-term contracts.
These contracts can include complex technological and commercial risks and often specify Our response: Our audit procedures included testing the principles performance milestones to be achieved throughout the contract and mathematical integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow period.
This results in estimates and assumptions having to be made model, comparing the Groups assumptions to external market to forecast the margin on each contract after making appropriate evidence such as projected economic growth and discount rates, allowances for these technical and commercial risks related to involving our corporate finance specialists as we considered performance milestones yet to be achieved.
The risk of misstatement appropriate and challenging the cash flow projections by reviewing is that the accounting for the Groups significant contracts does not the timing of new revenue streams and product mix against market accurately reflect the status and the associated cost to complete conditions and the current level of sales.
We tested the sensitivity of the relevant contract.
of the impairment calculation to changes in the judgements and assumptions used by the Directors.
We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
100 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Other payables, provisions and contingent liabilities included Our response: Our audit procedures included challenging the within other payables of 163.3m 2015: 169.7m, provisions appropriateness of the Directors assumptions and estimates in of 19.1m 2015: 25.4m and contingent liabilities of Nil relation to tax assets and liabilities, by critically assessing the range 2015: Nil of possible amounts that may be assessed under tax laws, likely settlements based on the latest correspondence with the relevant Refer to page 71 Report of the Audit Committee, page 109 tax authorities and the complexity of the relevant tax legislation.
accounting policy note and pages 126 and 143 financial disclosures.
We involved our own tax specialists in analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our The risk: The Group holds provisions in respect of warranty claims knowledge and experience of the application of the legislation by and indemnities and regulatory issues.
The Group operates in the relevant authorities and courts.
We also assessed whether the regulated environments and a failure to comply with particular Groups tax disclosures are appropriate and in accordance with regulations could result in fines and or penalties.
There is judgement relevant accounting standards.
required in determining the significance of any instances of potential non-compliance and potential liability based on managements Removal of risk in respect of Consolidation of US subsidiaries assessment of the most likely outcome.
The financial statements also We continue to perform procedures over the consolidation of US disclose contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims and regulatory subsidiaries.
However, there has been no change in our conclusion that issues which have not been provided for on the basis that they are the Proxy agreement does not restrict the Groups ability to control not considered to qualify for recognition as provisions.
This is one FMIs operating and financial policies.
This is not one of the risks that of our key areas of audit focus.
had the greatest impact on our audit for the year ended 31 March 2016 and therefore it is not separately identified in our report.
Our response: Our audit procedures included a critical assessment of the extent to which the Directors estimates take into account 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope a balanced assessment of the latest available information and the ofouraudit accuracy and reliability of the sources of that information.
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at We corroborated the appropriateness of the Directors assumptions 5.2m 2015: 5.3m, determined with reference to a benchmark by reference to third party confirmations and legal advice, where of Group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude this years available, and considered whether our understanding of the business specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 4 of 108.7m 2015: gained throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions 107.8m, of which it represents 4.8% 2015: 4.9%.
We challenged the Directors estimates of the most likely audit team performed procedures on those items excluded from outcomes based on the range of possible outcomes to determine if normalised Group profit before taxation.
the amounts provided are appropriate.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected We considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect misstatements exceeding 0.3 million 2015: 0.3 million, in addition of other payables, provisions and contingent liabilities.
to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Tax liabilities current tax payable 39.9m 2015: 15.3m, deferred tax asset 4.1m 2015: 12.9m.
The audit of QinetiQ Limited, the main UK trading company, and goodwill arising on consolidation accounted for the following Refer to page 71 Report of the Audit Committee, page 108 percentages of the Groups results: 81% 2015: 81% of total Group accounting policy note and pages 124 and 126 financial disclosures.
revenue: 90% 2015: 92% of the total profits and losses that made up the Groups underlying profit before taxation: and 69% 2015: The risk: The Group is subject to income taxes in UK, USA and a 70% of total Group assets.
For the remaining components, number of other overseas jurisdictions.
The level of current tax and we performed analysis at an aggregate Group level to re-examine deferred tax recognised requires judgements as to the likely outcome our assessment that there were no significant risks of material of decisions to be made by the tax authorities.
This includes those misstatement within these.
related to specific tax allowances, such as the UK Research and Development tax credit.
There is a risk that the judgements on which 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies the provisions are based do not take into account or do not properly Act2006 is unmodified reflect the latest available, reliable information or an appropriate In our opinion: application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Independent auditors report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc only continued 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: principalrisks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have the Directors statement, set out on pages 68 to 69, in relation nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 51 the Directors confirmation of longer-term viability on page 69, to 77 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups for our review.
continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 March 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
Scope of report and responsibilities 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we are required to report by exception set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of other information in the Annual Report that contains a material accounts is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, at www.
This report is made solely a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
to the companys members as a body and subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published In particular, we are required to report to you if: on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be we have identified material inconsistencies between the read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the Groups position and performance, business model and Chartered Accountants strategy: or 15 Canada Square the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address London matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
E14 5GL Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 26 May 2016 in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
102 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
