Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of The Rank Group Plc What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of The Rank Group We audited the Group and Parent Company financial Plc for the year ended 30 June 2016 set out on pages 92 to 136. statements of The Rank Group Plc for the year ended 30 June In ouropinion: 2016 whichcomprise: Group Parent Company The Rank Group Plcs Group financial statements and Parent Group income statement for the Balance sheet as at 30 June 2016 Company financial statements the financial statements year ended 30 June 2016 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Group statement of Statement of changes in equity Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Group comprehensive income for for the year ended 30 June 2016 profit for the year thenended: the year ended 30 June 2016 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Group balance sheet as at Cash flow statement for the in accordance with International Financial Reporting 30 June 2016 year then ended Standards IFRS as adopted by the EuropeanUnion: Group statement of changes Related notes 1 to 33 to the in equity for the year then ended financial statements the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Group cash flow statement for prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European the year then ended Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Related notes 1 to 33 to the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the preparation of the Group and Parent Company financial the IASRegulation.
statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as regards the Parent Company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act2006.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.8m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional operating income.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further sevencomponents.
The 13 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 98% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for exceptional operating income and 100% of the Groups revenue.
Full scope components accounted for 76% and 92% of these metricsrespectively.
For the remaining 19 reporting components in the Group we have performed other procedures appropriate to respond to the risk of materialmisstatement.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatements due to fraud and error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Areas of risk Revenue recognition including the risk of managementoverride.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and adequacy of property leaseprovisions.
Indirect tax risk exposures andclaims.
Migration of data to the new online gaming platform.
What has Direct tax provisions were not classified as a significant risk in the current year due to the Group repaying amounts related to the changed majority of its legacy income taxmatters.
Focus on data migration due to the Group replacing its online gaming platform during the current year.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement Changes from the prior year We identified the risks of material misstatement described Our audit approach and assessment of areas of focus changes below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall in response to changes in circumstances affecting The Rank audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the Group Plcs business and impacting the Group financial direction of the efforts of the audit team.
This is not a complete statements.
Since the prior year audit we have made the list of the risks identified in our audit.
In addressing these risks, following changes to our areas ofrisk: we have performed the procedures below which were designed The Group settled the majority of their legacy direct tax in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, matters during the prior year.
There are fewer open matters consequently, we do not express any opinion on these and this has therefore been less of a focus area of ouraudit.
The Group replaced its online gaming platform during the Details of why we identified these issues as areas of focus and year.
Ensuring that the data was migrated appropriately and our audit procedures are set out in the table on pages 87 to 88. that the controls operating over the new gaming platform This is not a complete list of all procedures we performed in were operating effectively was a new area of focus in the respect of these areas.
The arrows in the table indicate whether currentyear.
we consider the financial statement risk associated with this focus area to have increased, decreased or stayed the same in relation to the financial year ended 30 June2016.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 86 What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We updated our understanding of the revenue processes and Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 57 : tested key financial and IT controls over the recognition and We concluded that Accounting policies page 97 : and note 2 of the measurement ofrevenue.
revenue recognition Consolidated Financial Statements page 104 We used our computer aided analytics tools to perform a and adjustments Revenue for the year ended 30 June 2016 was 708.5 correlation analysis to identify the extent to which revenue to revenue are million.
Our assessment is that the vast majority of was linked to cash for venues and customer balances for appropriate.
revenue transactions, for both the venues and digital digital, then investigated and obtained explanations for businesses, are non-complex, with no judgement applied those items where this was not thecase.
We consider there is a potential Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested for management override to achieve revenue targets via the appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, topside manual journal entries posted to revenue.
Revenue as well as other adjustments made in the preparation of the could be inaccurately stated as a result.
We considered unusual journals such were designed to corroborate our assessment that revenue as those posted outside expected hours, or by unexpected should be closely aligned to cash banked and identify individuals and for large or unusualamounts.
the manual adjustments that are made to revenue for We verified the recognition and measurement of revenue further testing.
by tracing a sample of transactions throughout the year to source data to verify the accuracy of reportedrevenue.
For venues, we attended and re-performed cash counts at a sample of casino and bingo venues at year end to verify the appropriate cut-off ofrevenue.
For digital, we reconciled the year end customer balances to the system report, which was tested for completeness and accuracy.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets We updated our understanding of managements annual and adequacy of property lease provisions impairment testingprocess.
The net impairment Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 57 : We ensured that the methodology of the impairment reversal of 0.5 million Accounting policies page 97 : and note 12 of the exercise continues to comply with the requirements of IFRS and onerous Consolidated Financial Statements page 116 as adopted by the European Union, including evaluating lease charge of At 30 June 2016 the carrying value of tangible and managements assessment of indicators of impairment 1.5 million is intangible assets was 606.3 million, the majority of which against indicators of impairment specified within IAS36.
appropriately relates to indefinite life intangible assets primarily casino We assessed the forecasts underlying the impairment review recognised.
We and other gaming licences orgoodwill.
and agreed to budgets approved by the Board, reviewing highlighted that a In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, these against actual performance and historic accuracy reasonably possible management disclosed that in addition to the impairment of forecasting.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on change in certain charge of 0.9 million and impairment reversal of earnings multiples and growth rates applied to cash flows key assumptions 1.4million, a reasonably possible change in customer to determine the extent of headroom for eachCGU.
underpinning the visits, win margins or spend per head could lead to forecasts for certain We agreed other key assumptions such as discount rates impairments in other Cash Generating Units CGU CGUs could lead to supporting evidence and corroborated these to industry where no impairment is currentlyrecognised.
to additional averages trends with the assistance of EY internalexperts.
We focus on this area due to the significance of the We compared the individual CGU projections to historic Sensitivity to carrying value of the assets being assessed and due to performance and observable trends and corroborated the changes in certain the level of management judgement required in the reasons for deviations to third party evidence asappropriate.
assumptions have assumptions impacting the impairment assessment For property lease provisions we understood managements been disclosed within and the sensitivity of the impairment model.
The main process for identifying onerous leases and ensured the note 12 to the annual assumptions impacting the assessment and sensitivity appropriate factors had been considered, including the report andaccounts.
of the model are future cash flows, growth rates applied recoverability of sub-let income, and determined whether to cash flows and discount rates.
These assumptions are We concluded appropriate provision had been made.
This also included subjective and subject to management judgement about that the property an assessment of whether the appropriate discount rate the future results of thebusiness.
In addition, the Group holds a provision of 44.7 million We checked underlying calculations and agreed key inputs for onerous lease provisions for both unoccupied properties to third party evidence including lease agreements.
and properties which are trading at a loss.
We consider, as with impairment, there is a high level of management judgement required in the assumptions impacting the assessment and the sensitivity of the model.
This is primarily the amount of sub-let income and period for which sub-let income can be obtained.
We therefore consider there is a higher likelihood that a material misstatement could arise as there is a risk that these provisions may be incorrectly valued.
com 87 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued What we concluded to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Indirect tax risk exposures and claims We reviewed and corroborated the key assumptions made by Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 57 : management in respect of uncertain indirect tax positions We conclude that Accounting policies page 97 : and notes 30 and 31 ensuring developments in the period have been taken into the positions taken of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 134 and 135 account and that all possible outcomes have beenassessed.
by management Indirect tax is a complex area in the betting and gaming We reviewed correspondence received from tax authorities are appropriate and industry and the Group has a number of claims and during the period in order to assess the completeness of accurately reflected in enquiries with HMRC.
The Group is required to consider uncertain tax positions and to corroborate managements the financial results.
the disclosure in the annual accounts of certain contingent position.
We have involved our indirect taxation specialists assets and contingent liabilities and the appropriateness in assessing the implications of correspondence received of their provisions in respect of these ongoing issues.
focus on this to ensure that all changes to legislation and We employed tax specialists to assess the technical support rates levied have been correctly applied and due to the for indirect tax submissions and to perform a review for highly judgemental nature of many of the ongoing claims completeness of effected changes in indirect tax legislation and disclosure requirements we have identified this as a to ensure they had been appropriately reflected by significant risk for the audit.
We updated our understanding of the process for preparing the partial exemption calculation and tested the partial exemption calculation using indirect tax specialists.
Migration of data to the new online gaming platform We have tested the migration of data to the new gaming Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 57 : platform and validated that appropriate controls were in We have not Accounting policies page 98 and the Consolidated place to ensure that access to the new gaming platform identified any Financial Statements page 92. and approval of changes within the new platform control deficiencies wereappropriate.
During the year the Group replaced its online gaming or misstatements platform.
We focused on this area given that failure to We tested the migration of data from the legacy gaming in the financial migrate the data appropriately could have had an impact platform to the new platform and held discussions with statements following on revenue for the digital business.
management to understand the IT environment and the migration of data walked through the key financial processes to understand to the new revenue the impact on the Groups controls over financialreporting.
platform or resulting We performed IT audit procedures to assess the IT from the IT environment under the new platform, including an environment assessment of controls over changes made to the system following the and controls over appropriate access to the system.
implementation of the new revenue platform.
Our application of materiality Starting basis Profit before tax for the year ended 85.5 million We apply the concept of materiality in planning the audit, in 30June 2016 evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit Exceptional Profit on disposal of freehold 10.0 million and in forming our auditopinion.
operating properties note 4 to the income Financial Statements Materiality Materiality Profit before tax adjusted for 75.5 million The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, exceptional operating income individually or in aggregate, could reasonably be expected basis for materiality to influence the economic decisions of users of the financial Materiality 5% of 75.5 million 3.8 million statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of ourprocedures.
Performance materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.8 million The application of materiality at the individual account 2014 15: 3.7 million, which is 5% 2014 15: 5% of profit or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an before tax adjusted for exceptional operating income.
We appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceedsmateriality.
in the table, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our determining materiality and is the most relevant performance assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our measure to the stakeholders of theentity.
judgement was that performance materiality was approximately 50% of our planning materiality 2014 15: 50%, namely 1.9million 2014 15: 1.9 million.
We have set performance The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 88 materiality at this percentage to take into account the Tailoring the scope inherently high risk nature of the industry in which the We used a risk-based approach for determining our audit Group operates.
Our objective in adopting this approach was strategy, ensuring that our audit teams performed consistent to conclude that undetected audit differences in all accounts procedures and focused on addressing the risks that are relevant did not exceed our planning materialitylevel.
This approach focused our audit effort towards higher risk areas, such as significant management judgements, Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining and on locations that were considered material based upon size, audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts complexity andrisk.
is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality for each component In assessing the risk of material misstatement to is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk assessment at adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts of the component.
In the current year the range of performance the 32 reporting components 2014 15: 32 of the Group we materiality allocated to components was 0.1 million to selected 13components 2014 15: 12 covering the entities 1.4million 2014 15: 0.1 million to 1.4 million.
registered within the UK, Spain, Alderney and Belgium, which represent the principal business units of theGroup.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are The Rank Group Plc has centralised processes and considered to be clearlytrivial.
the accounting for all but two components, being the components based in Spain and Belgium, is the responsibility of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the accounting function based in the UK.
The responsibility for them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2 million the judgemental processes and significant risk areas also resides 2014 15: 0.2 million which is set at 5% of planning with Group management.
We have tailored our audit response materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, accordingly and thus for all of our areas of risk, including those in our view, warranted reporting on qualitativegrounds.
related to the component in Spain, Alderney and Belgium, audit procedures were undertaken directly by the Group auditteam.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in Specific testing has been undertaken by one component light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming 2014 15: one audit team based in Spain on the verification ouropinion.
of operational data and other routine processes for the Spanish Scope of the audit of the financial statements bingo business.
Specific testing for the component based in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Belgium has been undertaken by the Group auditteam.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give For the remaining nineteen components 2014 15: twenty, reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free we performed other procedures, including overall analytical from material misstatements, whether caused by fraud or error.
review, review of internal audit reports, testing of consolidation This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys translations to respond to any potential risks of material circumstances and have been consistently applied and misstatement to the Group financialstatements.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
com 89 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued A breakdown of the coverage represented by the components Changes from the prior year compared to key metrics of the Group is provided below: There are no significant changes in the scoping from the prioryear.
Total profit before tax adjusted for exceptional Integrated team structure operating income coverage CY PY The Senior Statutory Auditor oversaw all planning at the full scope locations including discussion of the potential for material fraud and error, reviewed key working papers, participated in the planning and execution of the responses to the risks, and attended the audit closingmeetings.
In relation to the specific scope location in Spain, the Senior Statutory Auditor was also involved in the risk assessment and determining which accounts were in scope and attended the audit closing meeting by conference call, made specific enquiries of local management and reviewed the summary of results reported by the local auditteam.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible Full Scope entities 76% 81% for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Specic Scope entities 22% 17% Review Scope entities 2% 2% satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Total revenue coverage CY PY on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Full Scope entities 92% 92% In ouropinion: Specic Scope entities 8% 8% the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Total assets coverage CY PY Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financialstatements.
Full Scope entities 84% 89% Specic Scope entities 15% 11% Review Scope entities 1% 0% All work is completed by the group audit team apart from specific scope work at a Spanish component which contributes 6% 2014 15: 4% to total profit before tax adjusted for exceptional operating income, 3% 2014 15: 3% to total revenue and 4% 2014 15: 6% to total assets.
This work is undertaken by a separate audit team from EY Spain.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 90 Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual reportis: We have no reporting exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: We have no 2006 reporting exceptions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for to report.
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required toreview: We have no requirements exceptions the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 33, and longer-term viability, to report.
set out on page 33: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland We required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention We have reporting to in relationto: nothing material to the directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the add or to draw principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future attention to.
performance, solvency or liquidity the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements:and the directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Julie Carlyle Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 22 August 2016 www.
