Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only Judgment areas impacting individually purchased client relationships and introducing previously held client relationships beyond that Our response: Our procedures included using our own actuarial Opinions and conclusions arising from client relationship intangibles acquired historically in business combinations period: although there were no such cases during the year.
specialists to challenge key assumptions and estimates used in our audit For the element of the client relationship intangibles previously There is a risk that payments are inappropriately capitalised the calculation of the pension deficit.
The key assumptions and capitalised under IFRS 3 Business Combinations we have outside of the 12 month period or that they do not relate to estimates we tested included the discount rate, RPI inflation, salary 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is critically assessed the groups own review of the client client relationships previously held by the investment manager.
growth, allowance made for future transfers and life expectancy unmodified relationship intangibles against a range of impairment triggers.
that were applied to the valuation.
This included a comparison Judgment areas impacting individually purchased client relationships and We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone Brothers of key assumptions against externally derived data and our client relationship intangibles acquired historically in business combinations In considering the adequacy of the impairment assessment Plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 100 to benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
For client relationship intangibles acquired historically in performed by the group to support the carrying value of client 174.
In our opinion: business combinations, the group assesses whether there is an relationship intangibles previously capitalised under IAS 18 We also considered managements judgment in selecting its the financial statements give a true and fair view of the indication of impairment considering a range of impairment Revenue, we assessed the population for closed client accounts assumptions and whether there were any indicators of state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as triggers.
Where such an indication exists, the group considers or non-income generating clients to assess whether they were management bias.
at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year whether the ongoing benefits offered by the capitalised client appropriately derecognised.
then ended: We obtained a breakdown of assets held in both defined benefit relationship intangibles are greater than their carrying value Our consideration of the appropriateness of the useful pension schemes.
We independently verified the value of a and, if not, an impairment provision is recorded.
However, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in economic lives of the client relationships included performing sample of the assets held within both schemes.
in the current year the group assessed that there was no accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as an analysis of the length of the client relationships held by the indication of impairment.
There is a risk that a client relationship adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : We have also considered the adequacy of the groups group with reference to the historic gross outflows of funds intangible was impaired, but the group did not record an disclosure in respect of the defined benefit pension deficit under management.
the parent company financial statements have been properly impairment provision, because the impairment trigger and the assumptions used which is set out in note 27 to the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and remained undetected.
We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure financial statements.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies in respect of intangible assets.
The group assesses whether the ongoing benefits offered by Act 2006: and Accounting for the acquisition of Vison Independent Financial Planning the individually purchased client relationships are greater than Valuation of defined benefit pension deficit 39,455,000 Vision and Castle Investment Solutions Castle the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with their carrying value.
The accounting for the acquisition of Vision and Castle was 2015: 4,501,000 Risks vs 2015: the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards identified as a significant audit risk in the prior year.
Given this is The group estimates the useful economic lives of the Refer to page 83 audit committee report, page 111 the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
a one-off risk in the year of acquisition in relation to the judgment client relationships over which these intangible assets are accounting policy and pages 130 to 134 financial disclosures.
involved in applying IFRS 3 Business Combinations, we have not 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement subsequently amortised to be typically between 10 and 15 years.
assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our The risk: The parent company has recognised a pension deficit The judgments made by the group in respect of the useful In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report of 39.5 million as at 31 December 2016.
The valuation of the economic life could result in material differences in the the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on this year.
defined benefit pension deficit depends on a number of financial statements.
our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows.
judgmental assumptions and estimates, including the discount Our response: To assess the appropriateness of the recognition rate used to calculate the current value of the future payments the Recognition and carrying amount of client relationship intangibles and carrying value of client relationship intangibles we used our group expects to pay pensioners, the rate of inflation that must be 97,201,000 2015: 100,869,000 Risk vs 2015: industry knowledge and experience and considered the criteria incorporated in the estimate of the future pension payments and Refer to page 83 audit committee report, pages 109 to 110 for the recognition of payments to secure an asset management the life expectancy of pension scheme members.
The valuation is accounting policy and pages 126 to 127 financial disclosures.
contract as an asset in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
an important judgment as this balance is volatile and impacts the The risk: The group has capitalised significant amounts as In this area our audit procedures included: parent companys distributable reserves.
The group obtained client relationship intangibles, including both those purchased advice from actuarial specialists in order to calculate this obligation Judgment areas impacting individually purchased client relationships individually initially recognised at cost and those acquired as and uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect of We considered whether the payments capitalised fell within part of a business combination initially recognised at fair value.
long term trends and market conditions to determine the value the relevant 12 month period by comparing the dates of client based on the groups expectations of the future.
As a result, the The key judgment areas our audit concentrated on were: transfers with the employment contract of the investment actual surplus or deficit realised by the group may be significantly manager.
We performed a recalculation of new client Judgment areas impacting individually purchased client relationships different to that recognised on the balance sheet since small relationship intangibles recognised in the year and assessed The group makes contractual payments to its investment changes to the assumptions used in the calculation materially whether the amounts capitalised were in line with the managers for introducing new client relationships.
For newly affect the valuation and may result in the recognition of a deficit contractual agreements with the investment manager.
On a recruited managers, the group capitalises payments that are materially different than the liability recognised at the year end.
sample basis we tested that such costs related to relationships deemed to represent the transfer of existing client relationships already held by the investment manager by obtaining As a result of legislative changes which provide pension scheme already held by the investment manager.
The group has relevant documentary evidence.
members greater flexibility over the use of their pension, increased determined the appropriate accounting policy is to capitalise judgment is required to estimate the future number of members payments made to investment managers in respect of who will transfer out of the pension fund.
This has increased the previously held client relationships transferred to the group risk of material misstatement compared to the prior year.
during the 12 month period after the conclusion of any noncompete arrangements between an investment manager and their previous employer.
The capitalisation period is extended beyond 12 months in exceptional circumstances, where management consider that the investment manager is 96 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 96 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 97 Consolidated financial statements Judgment areas impacting individually purchased client relationships and Our response: Our procedures included using our own actuarial client relationship intangibles acquired historically in business combinations specialists to challenge key assumptions and estimates used in For the element of the client relationship intangibles previously the calculation of the pension deficit.
The key assumptions and capitalised under IFRS 3 Business Combinations we have estimates we tested included the discount rate, RPI inflation, salary critically assessed the groups own review of the client growth, allowance made for future transfers and life expectancy relationship intangibles against a range of impairment triggers.
This included a comparison of key assumptions against externally derived data and our In considering the adequacy of the impairment assessment benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
performed by the group to support the carrying value of client relationship intangibles previously capitalised under IAS 18 We also considered managements judgment in selecting its Revenue, we assessed the population for closed client accounts assumptions and whether there were any indicators of or non-income generating clients to assess whether they were management bias.
We obtained a breakdown of assets held in both defined benefit Our consideration of the appropriateness of the useful pension schemes.
We independently verified the value of a economic lives of the client relationships included performing sample of the assets held within both schemes.
an analysis of the length of the client relationships held by the We have also considered the adequacy of the groups group with reference to the historic gross outflows of funds disclosure in respect of the defined benefit pension deficit under management.
and the assumptions used which is set out in note 27 to the We have also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosure financial statements.
in respect of intangible assets.
Accounting for the acquisition of Vison Independent Financial Planning Valuation of defined benefit pension deficit 39,455,000 Vision and Castle Investment Solutions Castle The accounting for the acquisition of Vision and Castle was 2015: 4,501,000 Risks vs 2015: identified as a significant audit risk in the prior year.
Given this is Refer to page 83 audit committee report, page 111 a one-off risk in the year of acquisition in relation to the judgment accounting policy and pages 130 to 134 financial disclosures.
involved in applying IFRS 3 Business Combinations, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our The risk: The parent company has recognised a pension deficit audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report of 39.5 million as at 31 December 2016.
The valuation of the this year.
defined benefit pension deficit depends on a number of judgmental assumptions and estimates, including the discount rate used to calculate the current value of the future payments the group expects to pay pensioners, the rate of inflation that must be incorporated in the estimate of the future pension payments and the life expectancy of pension scheme members.
The valuation is an important judgment as this balance is volatile and impacts the parent companys distributable reserves.
The group obtained advice from actuarial specialists in order to calculate this obligation and uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect of long term trends and market conditions to determine the value based on the groups expectations of the future.
As a result, the actual surplus or deficit realised by the group may be significantly different to that recognised on the balance sheet since small changes to the assumptions used in the calculation materially affect the valuation and may result in the recognition of a deficit materially different than the liability recognised at the year end.
As a result of legislative changes which provide pension scheme members greater flexibility over the use of their pension, increased judgment is required to estimate the future number of members who will transfer out of the pension fund.
This has increased the risk of material misstatement compared to the prior year.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 97 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc only continued Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by Scope and responsibilities matters on which we are required to report the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 3 Our application of materiality and an overview As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities by exception of the scope of our audit In our opinion: statement set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit at 2.8 million 2015: 2.8 million, determined with reference to has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies identified other information in the annual report that contains of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting a benchmark of group profit before tax, normalised to exclude Act 2006: a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Councils website at www.
payments of 4.4 million in relation to the acquisition of Vison and the information given in the strategic report and the directors financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is This report is made solely to the companys members as a Castle which are one off expenses and not considered to be part of otherwise misleading.
body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers report for the financial year for which the financial statements the continuing operations, of which it represents 5% 2015: 5%.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at In particular, we are required to report to you if: We reported to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are the information given in the corporate governance report identified misstatements exceeding 140,000 2015: 140,000, we have identified material inconsistencies between the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be set out on pages 53 to 57 with respect to internal control and in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, risk management systems in relation to financial reporting reporting on qualitative grounds.
statement that they consider that the annual report and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
processes and about share capital structures the specified financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Audits for group reporting purposes were performed at all eight Corporate Governance information is consistent with the understandable and provides the information necessary for 2015: six of the groups reporting components.
shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor Audits of six 2015: six of the eight 2015: six reporting Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the business model and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor components were performed by the group audit team.
This audit course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading Chartered Accountants the audit committee report does not appropriately address work was performed by the group auditor to materiality levels set the strategic report, the directors report and the corporate matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
15 Canada Square individually for each component which ranged from ranged from governance report: London 0.2 million to 2.24 million 2015: 0.08 million to 2.40 million.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic E14 5GL in our opinion: For the remaining two 2015: nil reporting components the group report, the directors report, or the specified Corporate 22 February 2017 audit team instructed a component auditor as to the significant Governance information: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been in our opinion, the strategic report and the directors report have information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved received from branches not visited by us: or been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the component materialities, which ranged from 0.02 million to and the parent company financial statements and the part of 0.1 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in group across the components.
The group audit team held in our opinion, the corporate governance report has been agreement with the accounting records and returns: or conference calls with the component auditors to assess the audit prepared in accordance with rules 7.2.
7 approach to key risks and to discuss the findings reported to the of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by group audit team in more detail.
law are not made: or The components scoped in for group reporting purposes we have not received all the information and explanations 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of accounted for 100% of total group revenue, group profit before we require for our audit: or principal risks tax and total group assets.
a corporate governance report has not been prepared by Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have the company.
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Normalised group Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement of longer term viability on page 25, pro t before tax 54.5m Materiality 2.80m concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on 2015: 58.60m 2015: 2.80m the directors statements, set out on page 92 and page 25, 2.80m that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and Whole financial continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or statements materiality 2015: 2.80m the part of the corporate governance report on page 57 relating the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
2.24m Range of materiality at eight components We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
0.2m to 2.24m 2015: 0.08m to 2.40m 0.14m Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2015: 0.14m 98 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 98 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 99 Consolidated financial statements 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the Scope and responsibilities matters on which we are required to report As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities by exception statement set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit identified other information in the annual report that contains of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Councils website at www.
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is This report is made solely to the companys members as a otherwise misleading.
body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at In particular, we are required to report to you if: www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are we have identified material inconsistencies between the incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, statement that they consider that the annual report and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor business model and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants the audit committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
15 Canada Square London Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, E14 5GL in our opinion: 22 February 2017 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance report has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on page 92 and page 25, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the part of the corporate governance report on page 57 relating to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 99 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 99
