STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 97 96 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW PLC The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below, Report on the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Our opinion accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Redrow plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state for each Financial Year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Group: and 12 months then ended: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the Strategic Report contained on pages 03 to 61 includes a fair the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve review of the development and performance of the business and adopted by the European Union: the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the position of the Group, together with a description of the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Steve Morgan, Chairman John Tutte, Group Chief Executive make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable What we have audited Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director and prudent: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Debbie Hewitt, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union Nick Hewson, Non-Executive Director have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2016: Liz Peace, Non-Executive Director and explained in the financial statements: and Sir Michael Lyons, Non-Executive Director the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 12 months then ended: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless the Group and Company statement of cash flows for the 12 months then ended: By order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue the Group and Company statement of changes in equity for the 12 months then ended: in business.
the accounting policies: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Graham Cope the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Company Secretary disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 5 September 2016 These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Redrow plc The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Redrow House and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence St. Davids Park for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Flintshire and other irregularities.
CH5 3RX The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Our audit approach Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Materiality Overview preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Overall Group materiality: 12.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Net realisable value of inventories.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, Audit scope balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary Valuation of pension scheme surplus.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table on page 98.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 99 98 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW PLC How we tailored the audit scope Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, Net realisable value of inventories For sites impacted by the exceptional net realisable value provisions, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
See the Accounting Policies and Financial Risk Management sections we compared forecast sales prices to actual prices achieved post for the directors disclosures of related accounting policies and key year-end and assessed the accuracy of managements historical The Group comprises one principal trading company and a number of smaller subsidiaries and joint ventures, all of which are based in the UK.
See note 13 for the detailed disclosures on the forecasts by comparing net realisable values recognised in the prior inventory provision.
year with actual sales prices achieved in the current year.
We assessed We performed audits of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion expected market trends with reference to independent third party on the Group financial statements.
All work was performed by the Group engagement team.
The Group carries historic net realisable value provisions against the house price indices and our independently formed assumption.
We value of inventories, represented by land and work-in-progress.
19 also identified and tested any significant differences between Materiality million of these provisions remain at the year end in relation to sites budgeted and actual build costs recognised in the year.
We did not The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together which have not yet completed.
This constitutes the whole inventory identify any material differences between managements estimations with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the provision as at the year end.
The calculation of these provisions and actual results or independent indices.
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial involves a number of estimates, the most significant of which are statements as a whole.
forecast movements in the sales prices of plots and expected build We tested managements controls over the process for estimating the costs.
These assumptions could have a significant impact on the level expected remaining build costs, including the budgeting and review Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: of provisions recognised.
We also inspected evidence of the Boards review of forecast sales prices used in this provision model.
We did not identify The carrying value of the remaining inventory balance is subject to any significant deficiencies of control in this process.
Overall group materiality 12.5 million 2015: 10 million.
estimates, in particular over the likelihood of planning consent being How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
We performed sensitivity analysis to identify the impact that granted for the proposed developments.
As this can have a significant changes in key assumptions, notably the overall market house price impact on whether the value of the land is impaired, this is also an We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in variance assumption, have on the provision calculation in area of focus for us.
Rationale for benchmark applied assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
challenging management on the overall levels of provisioning.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6 million 2015: 0.5 financial statements regarding the provisions.
We considered the million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
assumptions used in the calculation of the provisions and the disclosures made to be appropriate.
Going concern For significant sites that have not yet been developed, we considered Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 96, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to the latest stage of planning applications and assessed the accuracy of report having performed our review.
managements historical estimates by comparing previous estimated impairments to actual outturns achieved.
We did not identify any Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the material differences between managements estimations and actual directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Valuation of pension scheme surplus We obtained and read the actuarial report that was prepared by an As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the See the Accounting Policies and Financial Risk Management sections independent firm of actuaries and used by the directors in estimating financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that for the directors disclosures of related accounting policies and key the value of the Groups surplus in respect of the scheme.
the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have accounting estimates.
See note 7 for the detailed disclosures on the concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, We tested the completeness and accuracy of the pension scheme pension scheme surplus.
these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
membership data provided to managements actuary on which the The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme with a net pension surplus is calculated, comparing the data to the underlying Other required reporting surplus of 6 million at the year end.
This surplus is derived from payroll systems.
We noted no material exceptions from our testing.
assets with a gross value of 122 million less the present value of Consistency of other information We challenged the key assumptions used in that actuarial valuation, obligations of 116 million, both of which are significant in the Companies Act 2006 reporting being the discount rate, future RPI inflation, mortality rates and context of the overall balance sheet and the results of the Group.
In our opinion: expected returns on investments by comparing them to internallyThe valuation of this net surplus is dependent on the application of generated typical ranges used for such assumptions, taking into the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is significant judgements in the actuarial assumptions, in particular account the industry in which the Group operates and other specific consistent with the financial statements.
discount rates, future Retail Price Index RPI inflation and mortality characteristics of this pension scheme.
The actuarial assumptions rates, and on the expected returns on investments.
were within the typical ranges for similar pension schemes.
In our opinion: Unfavourable changes in any of the key actuarial assumptions could The pension scheme assets are invested in a mixture of pooled funds, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 62 to 69 with respect to internal control and risk management lead to a material movement in the calculated net position.
individual equities, government and corporate bonds and cash.
We systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
obtained independent confirmations of the existence and valuation of all of the scheme assets from the external investment managers and tested the valuations of a sample of these assets by agreeing them to valuations obtained from independent third party sources.
We also confirmed the Groups right to recognise the net surplus by reviewing the scheme documentation.
No material differences were identified from our testing performed.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER 101 100 Redrow plc Annual Report 2016 REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF REDROW PLC ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Directors remuneration Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
Act 2006. materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Other Companies Act 2006 reporting apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement the statement given by the directors on page 96, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Company.
the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the section of the Annual Report on page 70, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
t he directors confirmation on page 96 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, to add or to draw attention to.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our t he disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material prior consent in writing.
to add or to draw attention to.
What an audit of financial statements involves t he directors explanation on page 96 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing material An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so to add or to draw attention to.
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Arif Ahmad Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester 5 September 2016
