108 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Independent auditors report UNITED KINGDOM Ernst & Young LLP NETHERLANDS Ernst & Young Accountants LLP TO: THE MEMBERS OF RELX PLC TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF RELX NV For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote Ernst & Young LLP in relation to the UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the Members of RELX PLC and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP in relation to Dutch responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of RELX NV.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which holds all the Groups operating businesses and financing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
The reports of Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
Where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP are identical unless clearly marked otherwise.
The financial statements the Financial Statements comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of RELX PLC the PLC Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of RELX NV the NV Company Accounts, each of which are defined below.
OPINIONS We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, which is based in London and Amsterdam, for the year ended 31December 2016 which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 to 31, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the company statement of changes in equity for 2016 and the notes 1 to 4 comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has audited the NV Company Accounts, based in Amsterdam, which comprise the company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the company statement of comprehensive income, and the company statement of changes in equity for 2016 and the notes 1 to 8 to the NV Company Accounts, including the summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
RELX PLC RELX NV In our opinion: In our opinion: the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair Company Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of view of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December the Groups and of RELX PLCs affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and prepared in accordance with International Financial with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting the NV Company Accounts give a true and fair view of the Standards Board.
financial position of RELX NV as at 31 December 2016 and of its result for 2016 in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared in Framework as a result of applying Section 362 1 of Book 2 of accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, the Dutch Civil Code.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Basis for our opinion Company Accounts have been prepared in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities the IAS Regulation.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We are independent of RELX Group in accordance with the Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with the Verordening  accountants VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 109 2.
OVERVIEW Materiality Overall group materiality is 74.0 million which represents approximately five per cent of profit before tax.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit for nine components and specific procedures for a further six components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 83% of absolute profit before tax, 83%of revenue and 82% of total assets.
Key audit matters Uncertain tax positions Internally developed intangible assets Aspects of revenue recognition Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Finance systems Transition as auditor, including auditing opening balances 3.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team key audit matters.
In addressing these risks, wehave performed certain procedures including the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
We have communicated the key audit matters tothe Boards.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Uncertain tax positions Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 105 and note 10 Taxation of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 136 The Group is subject to tax in numerous Procedures on the uncertain tax positions We concluded that managements jurisdictions.
Its complex organisation and were performed centrally by the Group judgements in relation to the extent of operational structure give rise to potential team supported by overseas team provisions for uncertain tax positions are tax exposures that require management including specialists: appropriate.
toexercise judgement in making We assessed the processes and tested determinations as to the amount of tax controls over the tax provisioning thatis payable.
The Group reports cross-border We met with tax management to transactions undertaken between understand the Group cross-border subsidiaries on an arms-length basis in tax transactions, status of all significant returns in accordance with Organisation for provisions, and any changes to Economic Co-operation and Development managements judgements in the year.
However, transfer pricing relies on the exercise of judgement We read correspondence with tax and it is frequently possible for there to be a authorities and external advisors to range of legitimate and reasonable views.
inform our assessment of recorded estimates and evaluate the The Group is subject to tax authority audits completeness of the provisions as a matter of routine and has a number of recorded.
We evaluated managements As a result, it has recognised a number of methodology to record or release provisions against uncertain tax positions, provisions following tax audits, the valuation of which requires significant settlements and the expiry of judgement.
We focused on this area due to the We tested the calculation of the year end significance of the balance and the provisions by inspecting underlying subjectivity in determining the documentation and supporting quantification of the provision and the schedules.
judgement around the trigger for recognition or release.
There is a risk that the tax provisions may be incorrectly quantified, impacting the provision and the effective tax rate.
110 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 3.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Internally developed intangible assets Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 105 and note 16 Intangible assets of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page146 The Group capitalised internally developed We performed procedures in each business We did not identify any evidence of material intangible assets of 280 million in the area with material additions in the year: misstatement in the capitalisation of current year.
The capitalisation of costs internally developed intangible assets.
We assessed the processes and tested related to the development of new products controls for the capitalisation of and business infrastructure, together with internally generated intangible assets the useful economic lives applied to the and identification of indicators of resulting assets, requires the exercise of impairment.
We assessed the accounting policy and We focused on this area as the Group has methodology for capitalisation of invested significantly in a number of expenditures.
It is inherently judgemental with respect to We evaluated the accuracy and valuation technical feasibility, intention and ability to of amounts capitalised to assess that complete the intangible asset, ability to use costs are directly attributable and or sell the asset, generation of future necessary to create, produce, and economic benefits and the ability to prepare the asset to be capable of measure the costs reliably.
This results in operating in the manner intended by arisk that expenditures may be management.
When new systems were brought into use, we tested that the allocation of costs and commencement of amortisation for each geography were appropriate and assessed managements determination of useful economic life.
Aspects of revenue recognition Refer to note 2 Segment Analysis of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 126 The Group earns revenue from a variety of At each full scope and specific scope audit We did not identify evidence of material sources among the different business location with significant revenue streams, misstatement in the revenue recognised in areas, including annual subscriptions, weperformed procedures to address the the year.
transactional usage and exhibition fees.
specific risk in each business area.
The nature of the risk associated with the We assessed the processes and tested accurate recording of revenue varies.
controls over each significant revenue We recognise that revenue is a key metric stream.
upon which the Group is judged, that the We evaluated the appropriateness of Group has annual internal targets, and that journal entries impacting revenue, as well the Group has incentive schemes that are as other adjustments made in the partially impacted by revenue growth.
preparation of the financial statements.
We have determined that there is a risk in We considered unusual journals such as relation to each of the business areas those posted outside of expected days, or reflective of the opportunity to commit by unexpected individuals.
We also fraud in the respective revenue streams.
evaluated managements controls over These key risks include the recognition of such adjustments.
revenue in the incorrect period and manual We inspected a sample of contracts to adjustments or override of controls by check that revenue recognition was in management.
accordance with the contract terms and the groups revenue recognition policies.
For revenue streams which have judgemental elements, we evaluated managements assumptions.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 111 3.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 105 and note 15 Goodwill and note 16 Intangible assets of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 144 and 146, respectively We focused on this area due the size of the We assessed the key information used in We noted the assumptions relating to the goodwill balance of 6,392 million and determining the valuation including the impairment models fell within acceptable intangible assets net book amount of weighted average cost of capital, cash flow ranges.
3,604 million at 31 December and forecasts and the implicit growth, We agree with managements conclusion because the Directors assessment of the including specialist support as necessary.
that no impairment of goodwill or intangible value in use of the Groups Cash We also conducted a sensitivity analysis to assets is required in the year.
Generating Units CGU involves understand by how much these judgement about the future results of the projections would need to change for there Group and the discount rates applied to to be an impairment.
We assessed managements consideration as to whether indicators of impairment existed based on the ongoing business rationale, including the stage of completion for internally developed intangible assets.
Where indicators were present for intangible assets, we focused on the key judgements around the expected cash flows, or future benefits as compared to the current and future development costs where applicable.
Finance systems The Group has many IT systems which are We utilised IT auditors to support our Our understanding and testing of IT systems vital to the ongoing operations and to the evaluation of the design and operation of and controls supported our audit approach.
integrity of the financial reporting process.
ITcontrols to address the Group's control Due to the global nature of the Group and its objectives and financial reporting risks.
operations, the applications, associated We made inquiries of management to infrastructure and IT processes which understand the IT environment and support significant business and financial walked through the financial processes processes are spread across a number of end-to-end in order to understand locations.
These are delivered by a mix of where IT systems were integral to the in-house teams and third party support Group accounting processes.
providers who may reside in different countries from the physical location of the We performed data analytic procedures IT infrastructure or the location of the RELX in certain locations and business areas business users.
Building our to understand the flow of transactions understanding of the IT environment and perform specific test procedures.
including interfaces between them was an We tested the IT general controls area of audit focus.
environment for the key applications.
Where appropriate, we received reports from the service auditors of the outsourced systems and evaluated the adequacy of the work performed and followed up on matters arising, performing further procedures as necessary.
Where required, we tested compensating controls or performed alternative procedures to complement the controls based audit approach.
112 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 3.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Transition as auditor, including auditing opening balances Initial audit engagements involve a number At the beginning of our audit, we developed We have executed our audit in accordance of considerations not associated with a transition plan which included among with our transition plan.
Compared to the ongoing other things: principles have been consistently applied audit process in future years, these and we have not identified any misstatements Knowledge sharing with the Audit procedures are either incremental in in the financial statements as a result of our Committee, Group Financial Reporting, nature or accelerated as compared to the opening balance procedures.
Audit & Risk Management, Legal, recurring audit cycle.
Compliance, and local management, Given this is our first year as the Groups which included incremental site visits, auditors there is a risk of inappropriate gaining an understanding of the reliance on opening balances and business, significant processes, and inconsistent application of accounting operations at the central processing principles.
In addition, there is a risk of an location.
inappropriate audit approach resulting Interaction with the predecessor from incomplete or incorrect information auditors, including reviewing the prior about the Group and its global operations.
year audit files and formal hand over procedures as prescribed by our professional standards.
Obtaining an understanding of the control environment and significant processes and considering whether management has applied a suitable control framework.
Obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening balances including the selection and application of accounting principles.
Assessing the impact of any control observations and unrecorded audit differences in the prior year audit.
Observing clearance meetings with senior management, the Audit Committee, and the predecessor auditors for the 2015 audit.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 113 4.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY The scope of our work is influenced by materiality.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
As we develop our audit strategy, we determine materiality at the overall level and at the individual account level referred to as our performance materiality.
Performance Reporting Materiality materiality threshold 74.0 million 56.0 million 3.7 million Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 74.0 million, which is set at approximately five per cent of profit before tax.
We believe that this materiality basis provides us with the best assessment of the requirements of the users of the financial statements.
The auditors in the prior period determined materiality for the Group to be 85.0 million in the comparative period, which was approximately six and a half per cent of profit before tax.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was approximately 75 per cent of our materiality, namely 56.0 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our initial assessment of the control environment and the historic lack of significant audit findings as noted in the review of the predecessor audit files.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current period, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 13.5 million to 33.8 million.
The performance materiality in the prior year, as determined by predecessor auditors, did not exceed 35.0 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly inconsequential.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 3.7 million, which is set at approximately five per cent of materiality.
The auditors in the prior period reported differences in excess of 1.7 million in the comparative period, which was approximately two per cent of planning materiality.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
We have also taken into account misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons.
114 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 5.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companies circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Tailoring our scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group which, when taken together, enable us to form an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland by Ernst & Young LLP and Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing by Ernst & Young Accountants LLP.
We take into account size, risk profile, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group has centralised processes for key judgements and determination of accounting policies.
Certain areas of audit focus, namely internally developed intangible assets, revenue recognition, and IT system management are decentralised processes delineated by business area.
We have tailored our audit response accordingly and procedures for the areas of focus were performed or directed by the Group audit team.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and to ensure that we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts, we selected fifteen components covering entities within the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, Switzerland, Australia, and Japan which include the principal business units within the Group.
The fifteen components where we performed full or specific scope audit procedures accounted for 83% of the Group profit before tax 1 onan absolute basis, 83% coverage of the Groups revenue and 82% of the Groups total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 57% of the Group profit before tax on an absolute basis, 75% of the Groups revenue and 72% of the Groups total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 26% of the Group profit before tax on an absolute basis, 8% of the Groups revenue and 10% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
A further breakdown of the size of these components compared to key metrics of the Group is provided below.
1 Coverage of profit before tax measured on an absolute basis for each component components with a loss would be added to both the numerator and denominator PROFIT BEFORE TAX ABSOLUTE REVENUE TOTAL ASSETS 17% 17% 18% 8% 10% 58% 25% 75% 72% Full scope Specic scope Other procedures The components where we performed other procedures represent a number of small components, none representing more than 2% of group revenue and or absolute profit before tax.
We performed procedures including analytical review, review of internal audit reports, and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations at the Group level to re-examine our assessment that there are no significant risks of material misstatement within these components.
We performed specific additional substantive testing procedures as a result of this review.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 115 Integrated team structure The overall audit strategy is determined by the UK senior statutory auditor, Nigel Jones and Dutch statutory auditor Guus van Eimeren.
RELX Group plc is based in the UK, however, due to the structure of the RELX PLC and RELX NV ownership, the Group team includes members from both the UK and the Netherlands.
The Dutch auditor travelled to the UK many times during the current years audit and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team.
Both partners attended certain Audit Committee meetings during the course of the audit and concluded on key judgements.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction, including the key audit matters detailed above.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to component teams in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, Switzerland, the Philippines and Australia.
These visits involved meeting local management and discussing the audit approach with the component audit team and any issues arising from their work.
The Group audit team participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specific scope locations.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
OTHER REPORTING RELX PLC RELX NV Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Report on other information included the annual report and Act 2006 is unmodified financial statements In addition to the financial statements and our auditors report In our opinion: thereon, the annual reports and financial statements contain the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited other information that consists of: has been properly prepared in accordance with the Report of the Board of RELX NV: Companies Act 2006: and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch the information given in the Strategic Report and the Civil Code: Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company 5 year summary: Accounts.
Other financial information: Matters on which we are required to report by exception: Shareholder information.
a. ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and the other information: non-financial information in the annual report is: is consistent with the financial statements and does not materially inconsistent with the information in the audited contain material misstatements: financial statements: or contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Dutch Civil Code.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in We have read the other information.
Based on our knowledge and the course of performing our audit: or otherwise understanding obtained through our audit of the financial misleading.
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether theother In particular, we are required to report whether we have information contains material misstatements.
By performing identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge these procedures, wecomply with the requirements of Part 9 of acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720.
The directors statement that they consider the annual report and scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and performed in our audit of the financial statements.
understandable and provides the information necessary for Engagement shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business We have been engaged by the General Meeting at 13 January 2016 model and strategy: and whether the annual report as auditor of RELX NV since the audit of the year 2016 and we are appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated the statutory auditor since that date up until today.
to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
116 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 6.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by RELX PLC, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or RELX PLC financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
c. Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: The directors statement in relation to going concern, and longer-term viability, set out on page 173: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no exceptions to report in respect of the matters in a, b and c. Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that would threaten the solvency of liquidity of the entity ISAs UK & Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 117 7.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELX PLC RELX NV Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: Statement set out on page 173, the directors are responsible the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is the European Union and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in and for the preparation of the other information: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the preparation and fair presentation of the NV Company comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Accounts in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure for Auditors.
Framework as a result of applying Section 362 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies the preparation of the other information, including the report of Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil state to the companys members those matters we are Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Dutch Civil Code: purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the enable the preparation of the Financial Statements that are free company and the companys members as a body, for our audit from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and RELX NVs ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Directors should prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group and or RELX NV or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors should disclose in the Financial Statements events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Groups and or RELX NVs ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
Auditors responsibilities Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit.
In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities.
Decisive were the size and or the risk profile of the group entities or operations.
On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items For more information about an audit of financial statements, werefer to the NBA website: https: www.
nl Vaktechniek Verklaringen  118 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 8.
SIGNING Nigel Jones Guus van Eimeren Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP Ernst & Young LLP Amsterdam London 22 February 2017 22 February 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the RELX Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
