Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 91 Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc only impairment charge.
The forecasting b Carrying value of Work in progress Opinions and conclusions of cash flows and the selection of an 26.2 million 2015: 20.1 million arising from our audit appropriate discount rate are therefore and Finished goods 32.8 million 1.
Our opinion on the financial key judgemental areas.
2015: 29.2 million Risk vs 2015: statements is unmodified Our response Our audit procedures Refer to pages 78 and 79 Audit Committee We have audited the financial statements included evaluating the Groups report, page 101 accounting policy and of Renishaw plc for the year ended 30th budgeting procedures upon which page 114 financial disclosures.
June 2016 set out on pages 94 to 133. the forecast cash flows are based In our opinion: The risk The Group trades globally by performing an assessment of and holds significant levels of inventory the financial statements give a true and the historical accuracy of budgets in the key manufacturing centres in fair view of the state of the Groups for trading entities by comparing the UK, Ireland and India and sales and of the parent companys affairs as previously budgeted figures to actual offices around the world.
There is an at 30th June 2016 and of the Groups results.
We also critically assessed ongoing risk of product obsolescence profit for the year then ended: the ongoing forecasts for companies on Finished goods and Work in in the research and development the group financial statements have progress due to the fast-paced nature phase, by considering the assumptions been properly prepared in accordance of the industry.
adopted by the directors and taking with International Financial Reporting into account the experience of the The Group maintains an inventory Standards as adopted by the European Group at maturing past research and provision for potential product Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : development companies into profitable obsolescence to the extent that the the parent company financial trading entities.
cost of inventory is not deemed to statements have been properly be recoverable through future sales.
We challenged the Groups selection of prepared in accordance with UK The inventory provision is calculated the discount rates used by considering Accounting Standards, including FRS at a disaggregated level.
For each the assumptions underlying the 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: individual stock item, a provision is calculation of each discount rate: using and initially calculated based on historic external data including competitor and budgeted sales and standard the financial statements have been analysis to determine an appropriate selling prices.
The results of these initial prepared in accordance with the range for each type of business and calculations are then assessed by group requirements of the Companies Act comparing the actual rate used to management and adjusted as deemed 2006 and, as regards the group that range.
For the period beyond necessary, based on managements financial statements, Article 4 of the the financial budgets and forecasts, expectation of future demand and IAS Regulation.
we assessed whether the growth selling prices.
The assumptions rate used was consistent with both 2.
Our assessment of risks of material underlying the provision calculations are historical performance and future misstatement judgemental and changes could have a business strategies.
material impact on the carrying value of In arriving at our audit opinion above Where the forecasts utilised were Work in progress and Finished goods.
on the financial statements the risks inconsistent with historical performance, of material misstatement that had Our response In this area our audit we challenged these assumptions with the greatest effect on our audit were procedures included challenging the the key decision makers within divisional as follows.
Groups key assumptions, being the management to assess whether these future demand and selling pricing, in a Carrying value of Goodwill 21.3 million forecasts were, in our view, achievable respect of the provision calculation.
2015: 19.7 million Risk vs 2015: with reference to the historical accuracy We assessed the historical accuracy of of budgeting.
Refer to pages 78 and 79 Audit Committee the inventory provision and, based on report, page 101 accounting policy and We evaluated the Groups sensitivity our own knowledge of the industry, we pages 109 and 110 financial disclosures.
analysis, by performing our own challenged material adjustments made by analysis to assess the sensitivity of the group management to the initial provision The risk The Group has engaged in impairment reviews to changes in the calculations.
We also identified slow a number of business combinations in key assumptions of the discount rate, moving line items, considering whether recent years: a number of acquisitions the forecast cash flows and growth rate appropriate levels of provision were held are still in the research and development beyond the financial budgets.
against these items by comparison to the phase and have not yet started trading: most recent sales invoices.
In addition, this makes forecasting inherently We assessed the adequacy of the for a sample of inventory items we more judgemental.
Groups disclosures in respect of compared the carrying amount to recent the impairment testing of goodwill Adverse changes in assumptions, sales invoices to assess whether these and whether disclosures about the particularly relating to forecast cash items have been written down to net sensitivity of the outcome of the flows and discount rates, could reduce realisable value.
impairment assessment to changes in the recoverable amount below the key assumptions properly reflected the We assessed the adequacy of the carrying amount, and give rise to an risks inherent in it.
Groups disclosures in this area.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 92 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc only continued 3.
Our application of materiality and The components for which we performed The work on five of the audits for group an overview of the scope of our audit work other than audits for group reporting reporting purposes was performed by purposes were not individually significant component auditors and the rest by the The materiality for the financial statements but were included in the scope of our Group audit team.
as a whole was set at 4.0 million group reporting work in order to provide 2015: 7.0 million, determined with Telephone conference meetings were held further coverage over the Groups results.
reference to a benchmark of group profit with the component auditors to assess before taxation of which it represents For the remaining components, we the audit risk, strategy and audit findings.
performed analysis at an aggregated During these meetings, the findings group level to re-examine our assessment reported to the Group audit team were We report to the Audit Committee that there were no significant risks of discussed in more detail.
any corrected or uncorrected material misstatement within these.
Our opinion on other matters 0.2 million, in addition to other identified The Group audit team instructed prescribed by the Companies Act misstatements that warranted reporting component auditors as to the significant 2006 is unmodified on qualitative grounds.
areas to be covered, including the relevant In our opinion: risks detailed above and the information to Of the Groups 48 2015: 42 reporting the part of the Directors remuneration be reported back.
components, we subjected 7 2015: 7 to report to be audited has been properly audits for group reporting purposes.
The Group audit team approved prepared in accordance with the component materiality, which was set at The components within the scope of Companies Act 2006: and 2.0 million, having regard to the mix of our work accounted for the following the information given in the Strategic size and risk profile of the Group across percentages of the Groups results: report and the Directors report for the the components.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Number of Revenue Profit before Total assets components % tax % % Audits for group reporting purposes 7 83% 90% 78% Reviews of financial information including enquiry 13 15% 10% 11% Coverage 20 98% 100% 89% Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 93 5.
We have nothing to report on the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Scope of report and disclosures of principal risks required to report to you if, in our opinion: responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired adequate accounting records have not As explained more fully in the Directors during our audit, we have nothing material been kept by the parent company, or responsibilities statement set out on page to add or draw attention to in relation to: returns adequate for our audit have not 90, the directors are responsible for the been received from branches not visited preparation of the financial statements the directors statement of principal by us: or and for being satisfied that they give a risks and uncertainties on pages 50 and true and fair view.
A description of the 51, concerning the principal risks, their the parent company financial scope of an audit of financial statements management, and, based on that, the statements and the part of the is provided on the Financial Reporting directors assessment and expectations Directors remuneration report to be Councils website at www.
uk of the Groups continuing in operation audited are not in agreement with the auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made over the three years to 30th June 2019: accounting records and returns: or solely to the Companys members as or certain disclosures of directors a body and is subject to important the disclosures in note 1 of the financial remuneration specified by law are not explanations and disclaimers regarding statements concerning the use of the made: or our responsibilities, published on going concern basis of accounting.
com uk we have not received all the information auditscopeukco2014a, which are 6.
We have nothing to report in and explanations we require for incorporated into this report as if set out respect of the matters on which we our audit.
in full and should be read to provide an are required to report by exception Under the Listing Rules we are required understanding of the purpose of this Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are to review: report, the work we have undertaken and required to report to you if, based on the basis of our opinions.
the directors statements, set out on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information pages 73 and 74, in relation to going in the annual report that contains a concern and longer-term viability: and material inconsistency with either that the part of the corporate governance knowledge or the financial statements, a Virginia Stevens statement on page 75 relating to the material misstatement of fact, or that is Senior Statutory Auditor Companys compliance with the eleven otherwise misleading.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to Governance Code specified for our review.
you if: Chartered Accountants 100 Temple Street we have identified material We have nothing to report in respect of Bristol inconsistencies between the knowledge the above responsibilities.
BS1 6AG we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider 27th July 2016 that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
