243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP LIMITED Opinion on financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements of The give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its Renewables profit for the year then ended: Infrastructure have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Group Limited IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Income Statement: the Balance Sheet: the Cash Flow Statement: the Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Summary of our Key risks audit approach The key risk that we identified in the current year was the assessment of the fair value of the investments of the fund.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 15.4 million which was determined on the basis of shareholders equity.
Scoping As the company is required to measure its subsidiaries at fair value rather than consolidate on a line-by-line basis, the company has been treated as having only one component.
There has been no change in approach for the current period.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 69 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 70 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP LIMITED continued Going concern and We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the assessment of the longer-term viability of the company contained within the Report of Directors on page 57. principal risks that We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: would threaten the the directors confirmation on page 57 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the solvency or liquidity principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future of the Company performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 44 to 49 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 57 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards Our assessment of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect risks of material on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the misstatement engagement team.
There have been no changes to the risks identified for this year end.
70 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 71 Risk title Assessment of the fair value of investments Risk description The companys investments held at fair value, comprise investments in intermediate holding companies and equity and subordinated debt interests in wind farm and solar park projects for which there is no liquid market and which are valued on a discounted cash flow basis.
The companys portfolio continues to grow, with 77 million of further investments during the year, principally funded through issue of equity.
The year-end valuation of 817.8 million at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: 711.6 million requires significant judgements in respect of the forecast cash flows and discount rates applied.
The judgements in respect of forecast cash flows include assumptions around future energy yields, discount rates, power prices, inflation, tax rates, exchange rates and operating costs.
The Audit Committee have set out their consideration of the risk on pages 65 to 68 and is disclosed as a critical accounting judgement in note 3 of the financial statements.
A breakdown of the investments and the assumptions applied to the valuation are described in note 4.
How the scope of Our audit is directed to considering the evidence available to support these assumptions and the our audit sensitivity of the valuation to reasonably possible changes in these assumptions.
responded to the We critically assessed these assumptions and the fund valuation model in which they are applied risk in determining the fair value.
Our audit procedures included: understanding and reviewing the design and implementation of internal controls around updates to the valuation model used at 31 December 2016: reviewing the independent advice received by the company in respect of energy yields, power prices and discount rates and meeting with those advisers where appropriate to understand the methodology used and challenge key assumptions: using our own Deloitte internal valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rate against comparable market participants: reviewing the share purchase agreements for any newly acquired assets in order to confirm the acquisition cost and the nature and amount of any deferred consideration: using macroeconomic data including inflation and tax rate forecasts and observable market data to benchmark key assumptions: testing the incorporation of the assumptions into the valuation model and the correct application of the selected discount rates: reviewing cash flow projections, focusing on changes since the previous reporting date or the date of acquisition for current period assets acquired, substantiating any contracted revenues and costs and comparison against actual historical results for the underlying investments: and reviewing the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements including the appropriateness of the sensitivities applied.
Key observations Using macroeconomic data including inflation and tax rate forecasts and other observable market data to benchmark the key assumptions and discount rates, we concluded that in aggregate the assumptions are within the acceptable range of reasonably possible alternatives.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 71 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP LIMITED continued Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it materiality probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 15.4 million 2015: 14.0 million Basis for determining materiality We determined materiality on the basis of less than 2% 2015: 2% of shareholders equity.
Rationale for the benchmark applied We consider equity to be the key benchmark used by members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
A lower materiality threshold of 0.5 million 2015: 0.4 million has been applied to those account balances which are not directly associated with the investment valuation.
The lower level of materiality has been determined based on approximately 5% of profit before tax 2015: approximately 5% excluding valuation gains and other movements in FX derivative contracts which have been considered separately.
We consider it appropriate to test balances such as interest income, dividend income, administrative expenses and associated working capital balances using a lower materiality threshold, as these balances impact the net income available to support distributions to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 770,000 2015: 280,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Having assessed the history of misstatements, we determined an increase in the threshold was appropriate during the period.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Matters on which Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records we are required to Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
72 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp063-pp073 22 02 2017 16:00 Page 73 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible responsibilities of for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair directors and view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance auditor with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed or misleading statements.
Scope of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Becker for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor Guernsey, Channel Islands 20 February 2017 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 73 243977 Renewable R&A pp074-pp078 22 02 2017 15:59 Page 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS View from the visitor centre at Green Hill Wind Farm 74 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
