Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 87 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc only positions, examined its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit and its external tax advisors, and analysed and challenged the 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified assumptions used to determine the level of tax provisions using our We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for the knowledge and experiences of the application of the international and year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 94 to 150.
In our local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 of tax and uncertain tax positions.
and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Impairment assessment and testing of cash-generating units that the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in include goodwill and acquired intangible assets including customer accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as lists and relationships and brands : carrying values of 736m and adopted by the European Union: 216.7m respectively 2015: 597.3m and 179.2m.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Risk vs 2015 unchanged.
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report and Note B3 to the FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and FinancialStatements.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group The risk: The Group has significant carrying amounts of both goodwill financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The goodwill and acquired customer lists and relationships and brands are spread across a range of 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement cash-generating units in different countries.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, A value in use model is used for impairment testing.
The estimation of indecreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: the value in use of the cash-generating units requires significant judgement in relation to the appropriate discount rates, growth rates, Recognition of UK deferred tax assets on unused tax losses.
terminal values, and forecast cash flows.
Changes to the assumptions Risk vs 2015: unchanged.
applied to the model, for example a change in the discount rate, has the Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report and Note A15 to the potential to significantly affect the impairment testing result.
Our response: In this area our procedures included testing of the The risk: The Group has significant recognised deferred tax assets of Groups underlying methodology upon which the forecasts are based 22.2m 2015: 26.1m and unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect and the principles and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow of unused tax losses within the UK.
There is inherent uncertainty model.
We instructed local auditors to evaluate the procedures involved estimating both the quantum and probability of relevant undertaken to identify indicators of impairment in the year through futureUK taxable profits arising against which unused tax losses can enquiry of local management and comparison of the previous year beutilised.
This is exacerbated by restrictions over the use ofUK tax forecasts to current year results and challenge of management where losses which depends on the nature of the income.
In addition losses there were any significant changes in the business.
Our testing of the are spread across several different tax entities.
impairment models included challenge of the long-term growth rate anddiscount rate assumptions by comparison to externally derived Our response: In this area our procedures included analysing the datasuch as projected economic growth rates, discount rate inputs judgements applied by the Directors in assessing the likelihood of the andinflation rates, as well as performing break-even analysis on the utilisation of deferred tax assets and the appropriateness of the assumptions.
We challenged the assumptions relating to forecast assumptions regarding the forecast period.
revenue growth and profit margins by comparison to the historical We have involved our own tax specialists in assessing and challenging performance of the cash-generating units and to the current forecast the key input assumptions primarily taxable profit forecasts and the approved by the Board.
termcovered by the UK income forecast by comparison to information We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures of the outcome of derived internally by the Group and taking into account our knowledge the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the and experience of the application of relevant tax legislation, as well as risks inherent in the valuation of intangible assets were adequate.
our understanding of changes in the business and the impact of these tothe forecasts.
Acquisition accounting goodwill additions of 47.1m and other intangible asset additions of 46.2m 2015: 305.7m and107.8m We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the Risk in prior year related primarily to Steritech acquisition recognition of deferred tax assets to changes in key assumptions Risk vs 2015 unchanged.
reflected the associated inherent risks.
Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report and Note B1 to the Provisions for tax contingencies of 62.9m 2015:54.5m.
The risk: The Group acquired 41 entities for a total purchase Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Report and Note A14 to the consideration of 107.1m 2015: 386.0m during the current financial FinancialStatements.
The Group is required to make a number of judgements, which The risk: The Group holds a number of provisions for outstanding tax focus on the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired.
contingencies which arise in the normal course of business.
The largest In applying a discounted cash flow method to value the acquired provision relates to a financing structure which have been challenged by customer lists and relationships and brands, the Group makes a number tax authorities.
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions with of key assumptions and estimates relating to each class of intangible the result there are complexities in transfer pricing and other international asset, including: growth and attrition rates, and discount rates.
The tax legislation issues for consideration.
In addition tax matters usually identification and valuation of acquired intangibles requires judgement take a significant length of time to be agreed with the tax authorities and, and is sensitive to the assumptions used.
as such, the recognition of these tax provisions requires judgements andestimates to be made in respect of the likely outcomes of the tax Our response: Our procedures included challenging the process for authority investigations.
identifying intangible assets, using our experience, market data and information from similar transactions.
We considered the methodology Our response: In this area our procedures included the following with and assumptions used to determine the present value of cash flow the assistance of our own tax specialists: assessed the Groups tax projections used in deriving the fair values adopted for the recognised intangible assets.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 88 Independent Auditors Report 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act ofouraudit 2006 is unmodified The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set In our opinion: at7.5m 2015: 7.5m, determined with reference to abenchmark of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been profit before taxation of 208.5m 2015: 159.0m of which it represents properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 4% 2015: 5%.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 250,000 2015: 250,000, Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic Report onqualitative grounds.
and the Directors Report: The components within the scope of our work accounted for the we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and following percentages of the Groups results: in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Total Group Total Group profit before tax Total Group revenue absolute assets 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on page 34, concerning the Audits for Group reporting 72% 50% 64% 53% 65% 42% principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors purposes assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation Detailed audit 9% 30% 23% 29% 21% 45% over the three years to 31 December 2019: or proceduresover all the disclosures in the basis of preparation note to the financial significant accounts statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception This audit work was performed by 16 2015: 16 audit teams in 16 2015:16 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on different countries covering 112 2015: 104 reporting units.
Thework on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 73 2015: 67 of the 112 2015: 104 components in scope forthe Group information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency audit was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material audit team.
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
The remaining 19% 2015: 20% of total Group revenue, 13% 2015: 18% oftotal Group profit before taxation absolute and 14% 2015: 13% of In particular, we are required to report to you if: totalGroup assets is represented by individually insignificant reporting we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge components, none of which individually represented more than 2% of we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they any of total Group revenue, total Group profit before tax absolute or consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken totalGroup assets.
For these components, we performed analysis at an as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
and performance, business model and strategy: or the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in the The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the Activities of the Committee in 2016 section of the Audit Committee significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team to the Audit Committee.
approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 3.6m 2015:0.1m to 2.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in profileof the Group across the components.
our opinion: The Group audit team visited two 2015: two component locations adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent and14 2015: 15 components : the US and Germany 2015: France and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the Netherlands, to meet with the component auditors and discuss from branches not visited by us: or theirfindings, as well as to assess the audit risk and strategy.
The Group the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors teamalso held discussions with the five 2015: five Rentokil Initial Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the regional management teams and the audit teams of all components in accounting records and returns: or scope for Group reporting.
At these visits and meetings, the findings certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and made: or anyfurther work required by the Group audit team was then performed we have not received all the information and explanations we require by the component auditor.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on page 153, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 51 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 89 Independent Auditors Report Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement setout on page 153, the Directors are responsible for the preparation ofthefinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true andfair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website atfrc.
This report is made solely tothe Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at kpmg.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated intothis report as if set out in full and should be read toprovide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 22 February 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 90 Financial Statements Section features 91 93 Financial Review 94 97 Consolidated Financial Statements 98 138 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Five-Year Summary 144 150 Parent Company Accounts Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
