STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote described in the Responsibilities for the financial statements, the  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and financial report and the audit section of our report.
regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Rio Tinto plc and  in relation to Australian legal, appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
For the purposes of the table on pages Independence: 208 to 210 that sets out the areas of focus key audit matters and how We are independent of the Group in accordance with the auditor our audit addressed the area of focus key audit matter, the terms we independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical and our refer to  LLP and or requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards  and or our component teams.
The Group Boards APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants APES financial statements, as defined below, consolidate the accounts of Rio 110 that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia.
Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective subsidiaries the We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Group and include the Groups share of joint arrangements and APES 110. associates.
What we have audited The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom The Group financial statements, included within the Annual report and Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Accounts the Annual report, comprise: Australian Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC order dated 14 December 2015 the ASIC Order for Rio the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: Tinto Limited.
the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Report on the financial statements and the financial the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: report the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements notes 1 45 and 47 to the Group financial statements, which include to the members of Rio Tinto plc a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory In our opinion: information: the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial the state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at statements: and 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements, included within the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Annual report, comprise: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly the Rio Tinto plc company statement of changes in equity for the year prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted then ended: and Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the notes A-H to the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements, which , asregardstheGroup include a summary of significant accounting policies and other financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion of  LLP in relation to The Group financial statements and the Rio Tinto plc company financial financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by statements are referred to in this report as the financial statements.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB The Group financial statements, note 46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures and the Directors declaration on page 205 are As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition referred to in this report as the financial report.
to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
 LLP has audited the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
 has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards, the Directors Remuneration Report included in Opinion of  on the financial report to the  members of Rio Tinto Limited 31 December 2016.
In our opinion: The accompanying financial report, defined below, is in accordance with Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: Annual report rather than in the notes to the financial statements and the financial report.
These are cross-referenced from the financial giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at statements and the financial report and are identified as audited.
31 December 2016 and of its performance for the year then ended: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the Corporations Regulations 2001.
United Kingdom, applicable law in Australia as amended by the ASIC Order described in the Annual report under the heading Australian Basis for opinion: Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief and IFRSs as adopted by We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further 2016 Annual report riotinto.
com 207 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Our audit approach preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is United The Groups principal activities are minerals and metals exploration, Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, Reduced development, production and processing.
The Group operates through Disclosure Framework and applicable law United Kingdom Generally four product groups which are supported by the Growth & Innovation Accepted Accounting Practice.
group and other centralised functions.
Together these comprise 49 business units containing multiple reporting units.
All currency references are to the United States Dollar, unless otherwise stated.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: $275 million 2015: $300 million.
Scope We identified the Pilbara business unit as a significant component which required an audit of its complete financial information due to its financial significance to the Group.
Aside from the Pilbara, we obtained full scope reporting from a further 21 reporting units 2015: one.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 12 reporting units 2015: 17, which comprised seven 2015: 12 operating reporting units and five 2015: five central reporting units, such as treasury entities.
Areas of focus We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the financial report and determined key audit matters the following areas of focus key audit matters for 2016: impairment assessments including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal, with a particular focus on property, plant and equipment at Oyu Tolgoi and Argyle and indefinite-lived intangible assets in Rio Tinto Aluminium: provisions for uncertain tax positions, with a particular focus on transfer pricing of certain transactions with the : provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations: and defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus key audit matters We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards ASAs.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the financial report.
Inparticular, , for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that were of most significance and had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort in the current year, are identified as areas of focus key audit matters in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements and financial report as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus key audit matter Impairment reversal of impairment assessment The Group has goodwill of $951 million, indefinite-lived intangible assets For material goodwill balances, other intangible assets, including of $1,702 million, finite-lived intangible assets of $1,577 million, including indefinite-lived water rights in Rio Tinto Aluminium, property, plant and exploration and evaluation assets of $711 million and property, plant and equipment, and exploration and evaluation assets we undertook equipment of $58,855 million as at 31 December 2016.
Impairment the following: charges to each of these asset categories have been recognised in satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements previous years.
identification of the Groups CGUs and the continued satisfactory All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived operation of the Groups controls over the impairment intangible assets must be tested for impairment annually.
Management assessment process: must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets including evaluated managements assessment of impairment indicators, as finite-lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and well as indicators of impairment reversal, including the evaluation and exploration assets when impairment indicators are conclusions reached: identified.
with the support of our valuation experts, benchmarked key market related assumptions in managements valuation models used to The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use determine recoverable amount against external data, including and fair value less costs of disposal, requires judgement on the part of assumptions of future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates management in identifying and then estimating the recoverable amount and discount rates: and for the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of key internal value driver inputs and external market conditions checked the mathematical accuracy of managements valuation such as future commodity prices, the timing and approval of future capital models and agreed relevant data, including assumptions on timing and future capital and operating expenditure, to the latest Life of and operating expenditure, and the most appropriate discount rate.
Mine production plans and budgets.
As well as considering indicators of impairment, management must determine whether any indicators of reversal of previous impairments are apparent for assets other than goodwill.
Due to continued uncertainty over long-term commodity prices, impairment reversals were only considered in a limited number of cases.
No impairment reversals were recognised.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION Area of focus key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus key audit matter In relation to specific reporting units we noted the following: In addition to our overall response to impairment risk described above, we performed additional procedures on certain projects or reporting Argyle as a result of the lower production volumes compared with units as follows: forecast and lower prices achieved for bulk diamonds, an impairment Argyle assessed the reliability of managements diamond price trigger was identified for the Argyle CGU.
Management determined the  recoverable amount for Argyle was $191 million assessed by reference to performing sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions in the VIU a value in use VIU model in line with the accounting policy set out in model such as changes in diamond prices, operating expenses, the note 1 i.
The reduction in the recoverable amount resulted in a pre-tax discount rate and exchange rates: and impairment charge of $240 million related to property, plant & equipment Oyu Tolgoi read the formal notice to proceed issued by the Group and $1 million to intangible assets.
and the Government of Mongolia and the 2016 Oyu Tolgoi Oyu Tolgoi this project has progressed during 2016, including formal feasibility study.
We understood key changes in the 2016 Oyu notice to proceed with the underground mine development and approval of Tolgoi feasibility study compared with the 2015 feasibility study and the 2016 Oyu Tolgoi feasibility study by both the Government of Mongolia the impact of the latest study on Life of Mine assumptions and and Turquoise Hill Resources.
The operating assets of the Oyu Tolgoi CGU assessed managements competence and objectivity in preparing as at 31 December 2016 were $7.9 billion.
, wesatisfied ourselves that no impairment trigger arose in the year.
However, Refer to note 6 for managements conclusions and the Audit Committees due to the length of time remaining to complete the underground views set out on page 59. mine, and the associated complexity of doing so, we also satisfied ourselves that developments in 2016 did not give rise to an impairment reversal trigger for the Oyu Tolgoi CGU.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 to the financial statements.
Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations The Group has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental We assessed managements process for the review of closure obligations of $8,722 million as at 31 December 2016. provisions, and performed detailed testing for 10 reporting units that had a material movement in their closure provision in the year or a The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in material closure provision as at 31 December 2016 2015: 5 estimating the quantum and timing of future costs, particularly given the reporting units.
unique nature of each site, the long timescales involved and the potential associated obligations.
These calculations also require management to As part of our detailed testing of the cost estimates prepared by determine an appropriate rate to discount future costs to their net management for the 10 reporting units selected, we established the present value.
existence of legal and or constructive obligations with respect to the closure provision and considered the intended method of restoration The judgement required to estimate such costs is compounded by the fact and rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
that there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future costs.
We also considered the competence and objectivity of managements experts, whether internal or external to the Group, who produced the Management reviews the close-down, restoration and environmental cost estimates.
obligations on a semi-annual basis, using experts to provide support in its assessment where appropriate.
This review incorporates the effects of any We checked the mathematical accuracy of managements calculations changes in local regulations and managements anticipated approach to and assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate using our restoration and rehabilitation.
In relation to specific assets, we focussed on the change in provision at the In addition to our overall response to the risk described above, we Gove alumina refinery.
An updated closure study in 2016 at the Gove performed additional procedures in respect of the Gove alumina refinery resulted in a change in the estimate and an increase in the closure refinery provision as follows: provision by $402 million.
read the latest available technical studies and assessed the Refer to notes 2 and 26, and the Audit Committees views set out on page appropriateness of the scope of work performed by management 59. and the various third party experts: and engaged our expert in the field of restoration and rehabilitation to evaluate technical data related to the project.
For the remaining reporting units which did not have a material closure provision or material movement in the year, including legacy operations,  close-down, restoration and environmental obligations was consistent with our understanding of the obligations associated with the operation and the remediation plans.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and 26 to the financial statements.
com 209 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Area of focus key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus key audit matter Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters positions and the related accounting policy of providing for during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect tax exposures.
taxes and transaction related tax matters.
As at 31 December 2016, the We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current Group has current and non-current taxes payable of $1,038 million.
Where status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions developments in ongoing disputes.
We read recent rulings and based on managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
,  In relation to specific uncertain tax positions, we focussed on matters received by the Group where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax relating to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between the Groups provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect the entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in latest external developments.
The Group has been in discussion with the Australian Taxation In addition to our overall response to the risk described above, we Office ATO on these matters through advance ruling requests or performed additional procedures in respect of the Groups Singapore pursuant to the Groups co-operative compliance agreement.
The Group commercial centre as follows: has recognised an increase in the tax provision of $380 million in the year.
read the latest available position paper and expert reports to assess The Group has not yet received amended tax assessments from the ATO in the appropriateness of the provision recognised by management: respect of these matters, but it is possible that assessments may be checked the mathematical accuracy of managements models and issued in the near future.
agreed relevant input data to supporting records: and Refer to notes 2 and 9, and the Audit Committees views set out on engaged our experts in the field of transfer pricing to evaluate the page 59. .
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits The Group has approximately 55 defined benefit pension plans.
The total We used our actuarial experts to satisfy ourselves that the fair value of plan assets is $13,749 million, and the total present value of assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including pension obligations is $15,302 million, which are both significant in the salary increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with context of the overall balance sheet of the Group.
the specifics of each in-scope plan and, where applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks.
We also checked that the discount The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, mortality rates, consistent with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with discount rates, inflation levels and the impact of any changes in individual other companies recent external reporting.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the determination of the liability.
Management uses external For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions.
ownership and third party valuations of individual pension assets.
We re-performed a sample of the valuations independently, for example Judgement is also involved in the measurement of the fair value of certain testing the valuation of marketable securities to index prices as at pension assets.
31 December 2016, recalculating valuations based on observable inputs and using our experts to help us assess other individual asset Refer to note 45 and the Audit Committees views set out on page 59. values whose value is not determined based on observable market inputs, suchasproperty.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 45 to the financial statements.
 As the Group engagement team, we tailored the scope of our audit to areas of focus key audit matters as noted above and known accounting ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on matters, and to include unpredictability in our audit procedures.
the financial statements and the financial report as a whole, taking into In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting , as processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
the Group engagement team, or component auditors from either other Following the reorganisation of the Groups product group structure in PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
In June 2016, the Group is organised into four product groups Aluminium, 2016, we re-evaluated our audit approach in respect of the Aluminium Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals and Iron Ore, all of which are product group, and received reporting directly from Aluminium reporting supported by the Growth & Innovation group and other centralised units that previously reported to, and were aggregated at, the product functions.
Each product group is made up of a number of operating group level, before being reported to the Group team at that aggregated businesses which represent separate business units.
Each business unit product group level.
With this change in our audit scoping we also is comprised of individual reporting units which align to discrete extended certain procedures at in-scope reporting units when compared operations.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of with those undertaken last year to simplify our Group audit approach.
reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and We identified the Pilbara reporting unit as a significant component as centralised functions.
We determined the appropriate reporting units to defined within ISAs UK & Ireland and ASAs which, in our view, required perform work on based on factors such as the size of the balances, the an audit of its complete financial information, due to its financial 210 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION significance to the Group.
Outside of the Pilbara reporting unit, we We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting obtained full scope reporting from a further 21 reporting units 2015: out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained one, the increase largely reflecting our revised approach to the regular communication with the component auditors throughout the Aluminium product group, as well as at other key reporting units in which audit cycle.
These interactions included attending certain component we previously performed specific audit procedures.
Specific audit clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a reviewing and assessing any matters reported.
The Group engagement further 12 reporting units 2015: 17, which comprised seven 2015: 12 team also reviewed selected audit working papers for certain in-scope operating reporting units and five 2015: five central reporting units, component teams.
such as treasury entities, primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited As we seek to vary our audit procedures each year to ensure an element component teams across all four product groups in Canada, Australia, of unpredictability, two smaller reporting units 2015: two were included Chile, Mongolia and Singapore.
These visits included meetings with local in our Group audit scope for 2016.
We also performed work centrally on management and with the component auditors, and typically operating IT general controls, journals, taxation and pensions.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the Materiality level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our financial statements as a whole.
audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements and the financial report as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements and the financial report as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality $275 million 2015: $300 million.
How we determined it We used an average of underlying earnings before tax as defined in note 2 to the financial statements of the current and previous three years 2015: 5% of single year underlying earnings before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We chose to use an adjusted underlying earnings measure as the benchmark because an adjusted measure applied removes the impact of material items which do not recur from year to year or otherwise significantly affect the underlying trend of performance from continuing operations.
This is the metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly assessed by management and reported to shareholders.
For 2016 we amended our approach to calculate materiality based on a four year average of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings.
Adoption of a multi-year average benchmark for materiality will respond to longer-term trends in commodity markets and reduce volatility in the measure year-on-year.
Using our professional judgement, we determined materiality for this year at $275 million, which equates to approximately 4.1% of the current years underlying earnings before tax.
Component materiality For each reporting unit component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
The materiality allocated to each component was between $19 million and $250 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them As noted in the Directors statement, the directors have concluded that it misstatements identified during our audit above $25 million is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 2015: $30 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
parent companies, defined as Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Parent Companies, have adequate resources to remain in operation, Going concern and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors date the financial statements were signed.
statement, set out on page 108, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companies ability to continue as Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to a going concern.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Other required reporting  LLP Under ASAs we are required to conclude on the appropriateness of the Consistency of other information directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to Companies Act 2006 opinion events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such is consistent with the financial statements: and disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors accordance with applicable legal requirements.
com 211 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have Parent Companies and their environment obtained in the course of the nothing to report in this respect.
audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
 We have no exceptions to Code the Code, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable report arising from this and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs position and responsibility.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions to Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
report arising from this responsibility.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 15 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that We have nothing material to they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would add or to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or We have nothing material to mitigated.
add or to draw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 15 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to We have nothing material to ,  add or to draw attention to.
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
 they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viabilityoftheGroup, setoutonpage15.
 scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records  Corporate governance statement received  Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Code.
opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require Other required reporting  for our audit: Other information adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches information comprises the information included in the Annual report not visited by us: or other than the financial report and our auditors report thereon.
the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider Directors remuneration whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be appears to be materially misstated.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
If, ,  material misstatement of this other information, we are required to Other Companies Act 2006 reporting report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law arenotmade.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS METALS AND MINERALS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs UK & Ireland and ASAs, Directors remuneration we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional Directors Remuneration Report Corporations Act 2001 opinion scepticism throughout the audit.
We also: Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are required to express an opinion on the Directors Remuneration Report identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial based on our audit conducted in accordance with ASAs.
statements and financial report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain Opinion on the Remuneration Report audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for We have audited the Remuneration Report included on pages 67 to 107 our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement of the Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2016. resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Rio Tinto Limited complies fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, with the requirements of section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as misrepresentations, or the override of internal control: amended by the ASIC Order.
obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the Responsibilities circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and the effectiveness of the Groups and the Parent Companies internal presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section control: 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, and the Parent Companies circumstances and have been based on our audit conducted in accordance with ASAs.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed: evaluate the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates and Responsibilities for the financial statements, the related disclosures made by the directors: financial report and the audit assess the overall presentation of the financial statements and the Responsibilities of the directors financial report, including the disclosures, and whether the financial As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set statements and the financial report represents the underlying out on page 205, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation: financial statements and the financial report and for being satisfied that and they give a true and fair view in accordance with the applicable financial obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial reporting frameworks.
The directors are also responsible for such information of the entities or business activities within the Group to internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the express an opinion on the financial statements and the financial preparation of the financial report that is free from material report.
, supervisionand misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
performance of the group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and audit opinion.
financial report We primarily focus our work in the areas outlined above by assessing the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own statements and financial report in accordance with applicable law and judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland and ASAs respectively.
Those standards require us and the financial report.
to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant ethical requirements relating to audit We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing engagements in Australia.
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in combination of both.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the the ASIC Order in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or during our audit.
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior  consent in writing.
with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may in the financial statements and the financial report to obtain reasonable reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where assurance about whether the financial statements and financial report as applicable, related safeguards.
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee statements and the financial report for the current period and had the that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs UK & Ireland and greatest effect on our audit and are therefore the areas of focus key ASAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
We describe these matters in our auditors report unless Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of financial statements or financial report.
doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
com 213 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the ofperformingtheaudit.
 Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our financial statements and the audited financial report and to identify any report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course applicable legal requirements.
Paul Barkus Paul Bendall Senior Statutory Auditor Partner for and on behalf of  LLP for and on behalf of  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Melbourne, Australia London, United Kingdom 1 March 2017 1 March 2017 a The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto Group website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom and Australia governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
