| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: RIT Capital Partners plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Report & Accounts, comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Report & Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context RIT Capital Partners plc is a FTSE 250 self-managed investment trust, managed by a wholly owned subsidiary J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
The operations of the Group are located in the UK.
Each year we focus our work primarily on the valuation of the investment portfolio, including direct private investments, funds, investment property and derivatives.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Overview Overall Group materiality: 47.1 million which represents 1.75% of net assets.
The Group comprises an Investment Company and its subsidiaries, managing a widely Materiality diversified portfolio.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 17 entities including J Rothschild Capital Management Limited the Manager and the Parent Company.
We audited the financial statements of nine subsidiaries and the Parent Company which Audit scope together account for 100% of the Groups income, 100% of its profit before tax, and 99% of net assets.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Areas of focus Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Valuation of direct private investments.
Valuation of other investments namely investments in funds levels 2 & 3, investment property and derivatives.
Income recognition for gains losses on fair value investments.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of direct private investments We understood and evaluated the valuation methodology applied, by reference to industry practice, and tested the Refer to page 29 Audit and Risk Committee Report, techniques used by management in determining the fair pages 55 to 56 Accounting Policies and page 67 notes.
value of the investment portfolio.
We focused on the valuation of direct private For direct private investments, we were able to: investments as the valuations are material, complex and compare valuations to recently completed include estimates and significant judgements.
transactions: The valuation of direct private investments are assess the validity of valuation models that applied determined by management and the Directors and are comparable quoted company earnings multiples by based on the nature of the underlying business which it assessing the adjustments made to reflect the has been invested in.
The methods used include: differences between the quoted company and the Applying a multiple to earnings: investee company, and checking earnings data from audited financial statements, unaudited management Using a discounted cash flow model: accounts and or forecasts for the investee entities: Using recent transaction prices and recent offers: and assess the valuation models that applied a discounted Using underlying asset valuations.
cash flow analysis by agreeing forecasts input into the model to supporting management accounts and analysing the discount rate applied: 80 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus obtain satisfactory explanations when challenging the assumptions made by management in the applicable valuation models: test the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models: and read Valuation Committee papers and meeting minutes where the valuations of these investments were discussed and agreed.
This, together with our knowledge of the investee entities and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, enabled us to discuss with and challenge management and Directors as to the appropriateness of the methodology and key inputs used, and the valuations themselves.
We found that managements valuations of direct private investments were supported by the available evidence, and in particular that the assumptions used were appropriate based on the investees circumstances, and actual and expected financial performance.
Valuation of other investments namely investments in For investments in funds level 2 & 3, we were able to: funds levels 2 & 3, investment property and derivatives confirm the latest available fund valuation with underlying fund managers or administrators: and Refer to pages 55 to 56 Accounting Policies and page 67 notes.
test transactions since the date of the latest available fund valuation where the valuation used by The valuation of investments in funds level 2 & 3 are management was not coterminous with the Balance determined by the underlying fund manager.
valuations are provided to the Group and assessed by management.
The valuations of level 3 funds are For investments in level 3 funds we were also able to: material, complex and include estimates and significant assess prior year valuations which were based on judgements as these funds consist of direct private unaudited net asset statements by reference to their investments.
respective audited financial statements: and The valuations of level 2 funds are material and are the for new fund investments invested in the year, we most significant part of the investment portfolio.
obtained and assessed the due diligence performed We also focused on the valuation of investment by management.
properties and derivatives as the valuation assumptions No material misstatements were identified by our testing used to fair value these investments do not have of investments in funds levels 2 & 3. observable market inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, and are more subjective.
For investment property, we were able to: compare the valuation methodology to the best practice set out in the RICS Valuation Professional Standards January 2014 the Red Book : assess the explanations for the assumptions made by management in the valuation: and RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus test the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models and verify the inputs into the models by agreeing them to third party sources where applicable.
For derivatives, we were able to: re-calculate the valuation of derivatives using independent pricing sources: and check valuation assumptions to broker statements.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing of investments in funds levels 2 and 3, investment property and derivatives.
Income recognition for gains losses on fair value Our testing over the gains losses on fair value investments investments included: obtaining an understanding of, and then testing the Refer to pages 55 to 56 Accounting Policies and valuation process as set out in the areas of focus page 58 notes.
above, to ascertain whether unrealised gains losses We focused on the accuracy and completeness of were appropriately calculated: income recognition relating to gains losses on fair value agreeing purchases and sales of investments during investments.
the period to a sample of trade tickets, call and Gains losses on investments represent changes in the distributions notices, and bank statements: fair value of investments over the financial year and recalculating gains and losses based on the valuation gains losses made on the disposal of investments.
Fair movement in investments over the year: and value movements that are unrealised are based on the change in investment valuations.
Valuations other than assessing journal entries relating to investment listed investments are subjective.
This, combined with gains losses for any entries not covered in our testing the size of the gains losses on fair value investments, as set out above.
made this an area of focus.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing.
82 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Related party transactions Our testing over related parties included: assessing managements process for identifying Refer to page 30 Audit and Risk Committee Report and related parties and related party transactions, which pages 70 to 71 notes.
included maintaining up to date records of parties We focused on this area due to the nature and number of related to the Group and to the Groups Board of related party transactions.
The complexity and extent of Directors: these arrangements means that there is a risk that not all evaluating managements listing of related parties and related party transactions are identified and disclosed in related parties transactions for completeness based the financial statements.
on our knowledge gained from the audit: reading minutes of the Conflicts Committee, a Group of independent non-executive Directors who monitor all arrangements with related parties: testing related party transactions to supporting documentation: obtaining written confirmation from the Parent Company of the list of all related parties: and performing scanning analytics for possible additional related party transactions.
We found no unidentified related parties or inconsistencies between the reported related party transactions and our testing in this area or the rest of our audit.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
We audited the Parent Company and 9 significant subsidiaries of the Group, which together account for 100% of the Groups income, 100% of its profit before tax, and 99% of its net assets.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, has provided the evidence we need for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 83 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 47.1 million 2015: 42.7 million.
How we determined it 1.75% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that net assets is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and this is also a generally accepted auditing benchmark used for companies in this industry.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2.3 million 2015: 2.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 18, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors Report, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
84 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Report & Accounts is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 28, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 We have no exceptions to of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Report & report.
Accounts taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Report & Accounts on page 29, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately report.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 15 of the Report & Accounts, in accordance with We have nothing material provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the to add or to draw attention principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business to.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Report & Accounts that describe those risks and explain how We have nothing material they are being managed or mitigated.
to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 18 of the Report & Accounts, in accordance with We have nothing material provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, to add or to draw attention over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 85 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 27, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
86 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Report & Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 87 243514 RIT R&A pp088-end 27 02 2017 14:49 Page 88 Other Information 31 December 2016
