INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Our opinion on the Overview of our audit approach Financial Statements Risk of material misstatement: In our opinion the Financial Statements: We have determined that misstatement or manipulation of the valuation of the Companys investment in the Partnership give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys is the only risk of material misstatement for the current year.
affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit for the year then ended: In previous years, while the Company was building up its investment portfolio through the Partnership, we identified have been properly prepared in accordance with a risk that the Company may not have good title to its International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS investment in the Partnership or good title to the underlying as adopted by the EU: and investments.
The Companys investing structure is now well have been prepared in accordance with the established and has not changed significantly in the last requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 two years.
Accordingly, we no longer consider ownership of the Companies Law.
investments to be a significant risk as we no longer consider it probable that a misstatement can occur.
What we have audited Audit scope: The Companys Financial Statements comprise: We have audited the Financial Statements of Riverstone Energy Limited for the year ended 31 December 2016. the Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2016: The audit was led from Guernsey.
The audit team mainly included individuals from the Guernsey office of Ernst & the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Young LLP and from the New York office of Ernst & Young LLP year ended 31 December 2016: in the U. S. and utilised oil and gas industry valuation experts the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year from the Houston office of Ernst & Young LLP in the U. S. ended 31 December 2016: We operated as an integrated audit team and we performed audit procedures and responded to the risks identified as the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended described below.
31 December 2016: and related Notes 1 to 15 to the Financial Statements.
Materiality: The financial reporting framework that has been applied Overall materiality of $34.0 million 2015: $26.9 million, in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted which is approximately 2 per cent.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risk of material misstatement described below as that which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing this risk, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the Financial Statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on this individual area.
Key Observations Risk Our response to the risk Misstatement or manipulation We confirmed our understanding of the processes, policies and We confirmed that of the valuation of the methodologies used by the Investment Manager for valuing level there were no Companys investment in three investments held by the Partnership, and the processes material instances the Partnership $1,695 million, used by the Board to review these valuations.
We assessed of use of 2015 $1,345 million whether such valuations had been done in accordance with inappropriate IFRS and the Companys accounting policies.
policies or The fair value of the Companys methodologies and investment in the Partnership is We selected a sample of all level three underlying investments with that the valuation based on the Net Asset Value of a fair value in excess of our Reporting Threshold of $1.7 million.
of the underlying the Partnership which, in turn, is This sample is more extensive than the sample required by our level three based on the fair values of its net methodology but we extended the sample size at the request of investments was assets including the underlying the Audit Committee.
Other level 3 investments amounted to not materially investments held by the only $2.8 million in total.
Partnership through the investing We engaged our own internal oil and gas industry valuation structure.
Most of the underlying We also confirmed experts to: investments, which are primarily that there were no in early stage exploration and a use their knowledge of the market to assess and corroborate material matters production companies in the oil arising from our managements market related judgements and valuation and gas industry, are level three metrics including discount rates, current and future oil and audit work on investments as defined in the the value of gas prices, valuation multiples and recent relevant transaction IFRS hierarchy.
Valuing such data by reference to our experts knowledge of comparable the Companys investments requires significant investment in the transactions, to independently compiled databases indices and judgement and estimation as to information reported by comparable public companies: and Partnership that we explained in Note 3 to the wanted to bring to b assist us to determine whether the methodologies used financial statements and in the the attention of the to value investments were in accordance with methods, Report of the Audit Committee on Audit Committee.
particularly those specific to the oil and gas industry, pages 40 and 41.
It also requires usually used by market participants: and significant industry expertise.
c assist us to determine whether appropriate judgements The fair values of underlying had been applied in selecting point estimates from the investments may be misstated range of reasonable estimates indicated by different or manipulated by applying valuation techniques.
inappropriate valuation methodologies or metrics or We agreed significant valuation inputs used by the Investment by using inappropriate inputs Manager including production and acreage data and EBITDA to the valuation calculations.
and other financial performance measures to information from The fair values may also be underlying investees and we tested the arithmetical accuracy misstated or manipulated by of the valuation calculations.
selecting inappropriate values We engaged our own tax professionals to assess whether the from the range of reasonable mechanisms in place for capturing the tax effects of realised and values indicated by different unrealised gains reflected the likely tax outcomes and their effect valuations techniques.
There is also a risk that proper We checked that the General Partner performance allocation adjustments are not made in the calculation had been performed in accordance with the terms of fair value calculations for the tax the agreement and that the calculation correctly reflected both and General Partner performance realised and unrealised gains.
allocation consequences of realised and unrealised gains We assessed the Companys analysis of whether the fair value of of underlying investments.
its investment in the Partnership was equivalent to the Net Asset Value of the Partnership by testing whether the data used in the analysis was appropriate and relevant and had been appropriately extracted from independent sources.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Reporting threshold The scope of our audit Reporting threshold is an amount below which identified Tailoring the scope misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would and our allocation of performance materiality determine our report to them all audit differences in excess of $1.7 million audit scope and the allocation of work between the audit 2015: $1.3 million which is set at 5 per cent.
of planning team and internal valuation experts.
Taken together, this materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, enables us to form an opinion on the Financial Statements.
in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed Our application of materiality above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations We apply the concept of materiality in planning and in forming our opinion.
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Scope of the audit of the Materiality Financial Statements Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Materiality provides a basis for give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
This includes an assessment of: whether We determined planning materiality for the Company to the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys be $34.0 million 2015: $26.9 million, which is approximately circumstances and have been consistently applied and 2 per cent.
This provided a adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing read all the financial and non-financial information in the and extent of further audit procedures.
We used equity as Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the a basis for determining planning materiality because the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information Companys primary performance measures for internal that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or and external reporting are based on equity.
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies materiality and noted no factors leading us to amend we consider the implications for our report.
materiality levels from those originally determined at the audit planning stage.
Respective responsibilities Performance materiality of Directors and auditor Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that Statement set out on page 29, the Directors are responsible the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being exceeds materiality.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our in accordance with applicable law and International assessment of the Companys overall control environment, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards our judgement was that overall performance materiality require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account Ethical Standards for Auditors.
or balance for the Company should be 75 per cent.
of materiality, namely $25.5 million 2015: 75 per cent.
of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as materiality, namely $20.2 million.
Our objective in adopting a body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies Law.
this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state undetected audit differences in the Financial Statements to the Companys members those matters we are required to did not exceed our materiality level.
state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RIVERSTONE ENERGY LIMITED CONTINUED Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Matters on which we are required Statement on the Directors assessment to report by exception of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial ISAs UK and Ireland reporting and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: We are required to give a statement as to whether we have materially inconsistent with the information in the anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: audited Financial Statements: or the Directors confirmation in the Annual Report that apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially they have carried out a robust assessment of the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company principal risks facing the entity, including those that acquired in the course of performing our audit: or would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: otherwise misleading.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe In particular, we are required to report whether we have those risks and explain how they are being managed identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge or mitigated: acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report the Directors Statement in the Financial Statements and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt understandable and provides the information necessary the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, and their identification of any material uncertainties to business model and strategy: and whether the Annual the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of Report appropriately addresses those matters that we at least twelve months from the date of approval of the communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider Financial Statements: and should have been disclosed.
the Directors explanation in the Annual Report as to We have no exceptions to report.
how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider Listing Rules review requirements that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the We are required to review: entity will be able to continue in operation and meet the Directors Statement in relation to going concern and its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their longer-term viability, set out on pages 27 and 28: and assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Law requirements We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept: or Michael Bane the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP accounting records: or Guernsey 28 February 2017 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the sole responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website 2 Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions
