176 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT This initial assessment is shown below in the output from our Dynamic Audit planning tool.
As there has been no significant change 1 OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS in the Groups operations and as the reduction in our assessment of UNMODIFIED materiality did not change the ranking of risks, the key risks are the same as in the prior year, though there have been some changes in We have audited the financial statements of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc the relative significance to our audit of some of the risks.
For last for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 115 to 175. year's audit, the risk relating to Bribery and corruption covered both i the risk that the Group had entered into corrupt transactions that In our opinion: could materially affect the financial statements and ii the risk that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the consequences of the then ongoing investigations into bribery and the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December corruption in overseas markets were not properly reflected in the 2016 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: financial statements.
These are now shown as separate risks as, following the conclusion of the investigations by the UK, US and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Brazilian investigating authorities, the significance of the second accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as element of the risk has reduced substantially.
adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS : Of the 19 key risks identified, we describe below i the eight risks the parent company financial statements have been properly of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including those in dark blue on the risk map the descriptions of risks include FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and an explanation for the changes in significance of these risks from last the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with year, ii our key audit procedures to address those risks and iii our the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the findings from those procedures in order that the Companys Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
Our findings are the result of procedures undertaken in the context of and solely for the purpose of our 2 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL statutory audit opinion on the financial statements as a whole and MISSTATEMENT consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the financial statements.
When planning our audit, we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group Our 2015 audit was reviewed by the Financial Reporting Councils financial statements, initially without taking account of the Audit Quality Review AQR team.
The review findings noted limited effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
This year areas for improvement.
These have been incorporated into our our testing generally showed these controls to have increased continuous improvement process for our approach to the 2016 in effectiveness.
audit and are reflected in the descriptions of the audit procedures set out below.
A The pressure on and incentives for I Measurement of revenue and profit on Dynamic Audit planning tool management to meet revenue and long-term contracts outside the Civil Relative significance of audit risks before taking account of controls profit targets Aerospace business see page 123 B The basis of accounting for revenue J Determination of development costs and profit in the Civil Aerospace to be capitalised see page 123 business K The basis of accounting for C The measurement of revenue and contractual aftermarket rights A B profit in the Civil Aerospace business see page 121 H D Recoverability of intangible assets in L Determination of the amortisation E the Civil Aerospace business period of development costs and C O CARs see page 128 E Liabilities arising from customer M financing arrangements The basis of accounting for Risk F and Revenue Sharing Arrangements F Bribery and corruption J see pages 122 and 123 D G G The presentation of P N Estimating provisions for warranties underlyingprofit I and guarantees see page 124 Q K H Disclosure of the effect on the trend O Valuation of derivatives and hedge in profit of items which are uneven accounting see pages 126 and 127 S in frequency or amount N P Measurement of post-retirement L M benefits see page 124 R Q Accounting for uncertain tax positions Likelihood of material misstatement and deferred tax assets see page 124 R Valuation of goodwill see page 123 S Consequences of investigations into bribery and corruption in overseas markets see page 163 Potential impact on financial statements OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 177 A The pressure on and incentives for management to meet technical issues on these engines, the response to which is revenue and profit targets forecast to be costly: and Refer to pages 18 to 35 Business review and pages 98 and 99 when considering the risk relating to The presentation of Audit Committee report Financial reporting underlying profit G refer to pages 179 and 180 and the risk relating to Disclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items The risk In recent years the Group has published a number which are uneven in frequency or amount H refer to pages 180 of revisions to its revenue and profit guidance with a generally and 181, we sought to identify items that affected profit and or decreasing trend in profit and revenue and there have been the trend in profit unevenly in frequency or amount especially significant associated decreases in the Groups share price.
The those where management had a greater degree of discretion over Group's employee incentive schemes include profit targets.
Clear the timing or scale of transactions entered into at a much lower instructions were given to the Executive Leadership Team and the level than we would otherwise have done and we assessed the senior finance executives on more than one occasion not to take balance and transparency of disclosure of these items.
any account of the pressure to meet forecasts in preparing the financial results and to manage and be alert to how this pressure Our findings Our testing did not identify any indication of might affect personnel across the wider Group.
Nevertheless, the manipulation of results 2015 audit finding: none.
We found the continuing pressure on and incentives for management to meet degree of caution optimism adopted in estimates to be balanced targets increases the inherent risk of manipulation of the Group overall 2015 audit finding: balanced.
We found that there was financial statements.
The financial results are sensitive to ample unbiased disclosure of items affecting the trend in profit.
significant estimates and judgements, particularly in respect of revenues and costs associated with long-term contracts, and there B T he basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the Civil is a broad range of acceptable outcomes of these that could lead to Aerospace business different levels of profit and revenue being reported in the financial Refer to pages 121 and 122 Key areas of judgement Introduction, statements.
Relatively small changes in the basis of those Contractual aftermarket rights, Linkage of original and long-term judgements and estimates could result in the Group meeting, aftermarket contracts, page 125 Significant accounting policies exceeding or falling short of forecasts, guidance or targets.
Revenue recognition and pages 98 and 99 Audit Committee report The significance of this risk increased marginally following changes Financial reporting to the Group's employee incentive schemes that involved the The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year on introduction of individual business profit targets as well as a Group the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, inter alia, profit target.
on the appropriate assessment of whether or not each long-term Our response We have: i extended our enquiries designed to aftermarket contract for services is linked to or separate from the assess whether judgements and estimates exhibited unconscious contract for sale of the related engines as this drives the accounting bias or whether management had taken systematic actions to basis to be applied.
As the commercial arrangements can be manipulate the reported results: ii compared the results to complex, significant judgement is applied in selecting the forecasts, guidance and targets, and challenged variances at a accounting basis in each case.
The most significant risk is that the much lower level than we would otherwise have done based on Group might inappropriately account for sales of engines and our understanding of factors affecting business performance with long-term service agreements as a single arrangement as this corroboration using external data where possible: and iii applied would usually lead to revenue and profit being recognised too early an increased level of scepticism throughout the audit by increasing because the margin in the long-term service agreement is usually the involvement of the senior audit team personnel, with particular higher than the margin in the engine sale agreement.
focus on audit procedures designed to assess whether revenues and The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
costs have been recognised in the correct accounting period, whether central adjustments were appropriate and whether the Our response We re-evaluated the appropriateness of the segmental analysis has been properly prepared.
accounting bases the Group applies in the Civil Aerospace business by reference to accounting standards and re-examining historical In particular: long-term aftermarket contracts.
We considered whether the when considering the risk relating to The measurement of revenue disclosure included in the financial statements enables shareholders C and profit in the Civil Aerospace business refer to page 178, we to understand how the accounting policies represent the commercial challenged the basis for changes in the estimated revenues and substance of the Groups contracts with its customers.
We made our costs in long-term contracts, with a heightened awareness of the own independent assessment, with reference to the relevant possibility of unconscious or systematic bias: accounting standards, of the accounting basis that should be applied to each long-term aftermarket contract entered into during the year when considering the risk relating to Recoverability of intangible and compared this to the accounting basis applied by the Group.
assets in the Civil Aerospace business D refer to pages 178 and 179, we challenged with a heightened awareness of the Our findings We found that the Group has developed a framework possibility of unconscious or systematic bias the basis for an for selecting the accounting bases which is consistent with a increase in the estimated market size and share of the Trent 900 balanced interpretation of accounting standards and has applied engine which offset the significant reduction in the recoverable this consistently.
We found that the disclosure was ample.
amount of Trent 900 programme assets arising from new 178 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued For the agreements entered into during this year, it was clear which We also checked the mathematical accuracy of the revenue and accounting basis should apply.
profit for each arrangement and considered the implications of identified errors and changes in estimates.
C T he measurement of revenue and profit in the Civil Aerospace business Our findings We focused our controls testing on controls that we assessed as likely to provide effective audit evidence, largely those Refer to pages 122 Key areas of judgement Measurement of relating to revenue estimates.
We also considered the operation of performance on long-term aftermarket contracts, page 125 other controls in order to provide relevant comment to Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition and TotalCare management and the audit committee.
We found that the arrangements and pages 98 and 99 Audit Committee report remediation of control weaknesses identified in earlier periods had Financial reporting continued.
The scope and depth of our detailed testing and analysis The risk The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year on was expanded to take account of the remaining control weaknesses.
the sale of engines and aftermarket services is dependent, inter alia, Overall, our assessment is that the assumptions and resulting on the assessment of the percentage of completion of long-term estimates including appropriate contingencies resulted in aftermarket contracts and the forecast cost profile of each balanced 2015 audit finding: balanced profit recognition.
As long-term aftermarket contracts can extend over D R ecoverability of intangible assets certification costs and significant periods and the profitability of these arrangements participation fees, development expenditure and contractual typically assumes significant lifecycle cost improvement over the aftermarket rights in the Civil Aerospace business term of the contracts, the estimated outturn requires significant judgement to be applied in estimating future engine flying hours, Refer to page 123 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Forecasts time on wing and other operating parameters, the pattern of future and discount rates, pages 127 and 128 Significant accounting maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred.
The nature of policies Certification costs and participation fees, Research and these estimates means that their continual refinement can have an development, Contractual aftermarket rights and Impairment of impact on the profits of the Civil Aerospace business that can be non-current assets, pages 140 to 142 Note 9 to the financial significant in an individual financial year.
The assessment of the statements Intangible assets and pages 98 and 99 Audit estimated outturn for each arrangement involves detailed Committee report Financial reporting calculations using large and complex databases with a significant The risk The recovery of these assets depends on a combination of level of manual intervention.
achieving sufficiently profitable business in the future as well as the The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
ability of customers to pay amounts due under contracts often over a long period of time.
Assets relating to a particular engine Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the programme are more prone to the risk of impairment in the early Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing years of a programme as the engines market position is established.
revenue and cost profiles are appropriate and that the resulting In addition, the pricing of business with launch customers makes estimated cumulative profit on these contracts is accurately assets relating to these engines more prone to the risk of impairment.
reflected in the financial statements: these controls operated over both the inputs and the outputs of the calculations.
We challenged The significance of the risk has increased somewhat during the year the appropriateness of these estimates for each programme and due to the emergence of new technical issues on the Trent 900 assessed whether or not the estimates showed any evidence of engines, the response to which is forecast to be costly.
systematic or unconscious management bias in the context of the Our response We tested the controls designed and applied by the heightened pressure on and incentives for management to meet Group to provide assurance that the assumptions used in preparing forecasts, guidance and targets discussed above.
Our challenge was the impairment calculations are regularly updated, that changes are based on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups monitored, scrutinised and approved by appropriate personnel and estimates in previous periods, identification and analysis of that the final assumptions used in impairment testing have been changes in assumptions from prior periods and an assessment appropriately approved.
We challenged the appropriateness of the of the consistency of assumptions within programmes.
key assumptions in the impairment tests including market size, In terms of future cost estimates, we undertook detailed market share, pricing, engine and aftermarket unit costs, individual assessments of the achievability of the Groups plans to reduce programme assumptions, price and cost escalation, discount rate lifecycle costs and an analysis of the impact of these plans on and exchange rates.
Our challenge was based on our assessment of forecast cost profiles taking account of contingencies and analysis the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods, of the impact of known technical issues on cost forecasts.
We our understanding of the commercial prospects of key engine focused on the estimates of costs expected to be incurred to programmes, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions respond to new technical issues emerging during the year, notably from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of in relation to the Trent 700 and 900 programmes.
assumptions across programmes and customers and comparison of assumptions with public data where this was available.
We focused Our analysis of forecast revenues considered each significant on the Trent 900 programme assets where the impact of the airframe that is powered by the Groups engines and was based estimated cost of responding to new technical issues would have led on discussions with commercial and operational management and to a significant impairment had the effect not been offset by an our own experience, supplemented by discussions with an aircraft increase in estimated market size and share.
We tested the valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether mathematical accuracy of the impairment calculations.
We the valuation specialist was objective and suitably qualified.
considered whether the disclosures in Note 9 to the financial OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 179 statements describe the inherent degree of subjectivity in the Our findings We found that the assumptions and estimates were estimates and the potential impact on future periods of revisions balanced 2015 audit finding: balanced and that the disclosures to these estimates.
were proportionate 2015 audit finding: proportionate.
Our findings Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the F B ribery and corruption design and operation of controls that would have required us to Refer to pages 105 and 106 Safety & Ethics Committee report Ethics expand the nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
We and compliance found that the assumptions and resulting estimates were balanced 2015 audit finding: balanced and that the disclosures were The risk A large part of the Groups business is characterised by proportionate 2015 audit finding: proportionate.
We found no competition for individually significant contracts with customers, errors in calculations 2015 audit finding: none.
which are often directly or indirectly associated with governments, and the award of individually significant contracts to suppliers.
The With regard to the Trent 900 programme assets, we found no procurement processes associated with these activities are highly evidence that the increase in estimated market size and share that susceptible to the risk of corruption.
In addition, the Group operates resulted in no impairment being recognised was motivated by the in a number of territories where the use of commercial intermediaries impact on profit and we found that this estimate was based on a is either required by the government or is common practice.
balanced assessment of the data available.
The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
E L iabilities arising from customer financing arrangements Our response We designed an approach to provide reasonable Refer to page 123 Key areas of judgement Customer financing assurance that we would identify bribery and corruption that would contingent liabilities, page 129 Significant accounting policies have a material impact on the financial statements.
We evaluated Customer financing support, page 156 Note 18 to the financial and tested the Groups policies, procedures and controls over the statements Provisions for liabilities and charges and pages 98 selection and renewal of intermediaries, contracting arrangements, and 99 Audit Committee report Financial reporting ongoing management and payments and over responses to The risk The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of financing suspected breaches of policy.
We sought to identify payments made and asset value support provided to customers.
This support typically to intermediaries during the year using data analysis techniques, takes the form of a guarantee with respect to the value of an aircraft including focusing on intermediaries that have been rejected at a future date, a commitment to buy used aircraft or a guarantee through the Group's selection process or were identified during of a customers future payments under an aircraft financing investigations.
We tested whether these had been subject to the arrangement.
The Group also provides standby credit lines to certain Group's controls, made enquiries of appropriate personnel and customers that can be accessed if they fail to arrange alternative evaluated the tone set by the Board and the Executive Leadership financing at the time they take delivery of engines.
Judgement is Team and the Groups approach to managing this risk.
Having required to assess the likelihood of these liabilities crystallising, in enquired of management, the Audit Committee and the Board as order to assess whether a provision should be recognised and, if so, to whether the Group is in compliance with laws and regulations the amount of that provision.
The total potential liability is significant relating to bribery and corruption, we made written enquiries of and can be affected by the assessment of the residual value of the and or met with the Groups legal advisers to cross check the results aircraft and the creditworthiness of the customers.
of those enquiries with third parties and maintained a high level of vigilance to possible indications of significant non-compliance with The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
laws and regulations relating to bribery and corruption whilst Our response We analysed the terms of guarantees on aircraft carrying out our other audit procedures.
delivered during the year in detail and obtained aircraft values from Our findings We did not find any evidence of payments of bribes and held discussions with aircraft valuation specialists engaged by or other corrupt behaviour during the year that would have had a the Group.
We assessed whether the valuer was objective and material impact on the financial statements 2015 audit finding: none.
suitably qualified, had been appropriately instructed and had been provided with complete, accurate data on which to base its Presentation and explanation of results evaluation.
For all contracts on delivered aircraft, we assessed the Refer to pages 18 to 35 Business review, pages 36 to 39 Financial commercial factors relevant to the likelihood of the guarantees review, pages 131 to 135 Note 2 to the financial statements being called, including the credit ratings and recent financial Segmental analysis and pages 98 and 98 Audit Committee report performance of the relevant customers and their fleet plans, and Financial reporting critically assessed the Groups estimate of the required provisions G T he presentation of underlying profit for those liabilities.
We considered movements in aircraft values and potential changes in the assessed probability of a liability The risk In addition to its Adopted IFRS financial statements, the crystallising since the previous year end and considered whether Group presents an alternative income statement on an underlying the evidence supported the Groups assessment as to whether or basis.
The Directors believe the underlying income statement not a liability needs to be recognised and the amount of the liability reflects better the Groups trading performance during the year.
recognised or contingent liability disclosed.
We considered whether The basis of adjusting between the Adopted IFRS and underlying the related disclosure in Note 18 to the financial statements income statements and a full reconciliation between them is set appropriately explains the potential liability in excess of the amount out in Note 2 to the financial statements on pages 133 and 134. provided for in the financial statements for delivered aircraft and A significant recurring adjustment between the Adopted IFRS highlights the significant but unquantifiable contingent liability in income statement and the underlying income statement relates respect of aircraft which will be delivered in the future.
180 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued to the foreign exchange rates used to translate foreign currency indication of management bias in the settlement of forward foreign transactions.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts exchange contracts.
We consider that there is proportionate and to manage the cash flow exposures of forecast transactions somewhat improved disclosure of the nature and amounts of the denominated in foreign currencies but does not generally apply adjustments to allow shareholders to understand the implications hedge accounting in its Adopted IFRS income statement.
The of the two bases on the financial measures being presented 2015 underlying income statement translates these amounts at the audit finding: proportionate.
We found the overall presentation of achieved foreign exchange rate on forward foreign exchange the underlying financial information to be balanced 2015 audit contracts settled in the period, retranslates assets and liabilities finding: balanced.
at exchange rates forecast to be achieved from future settlement H D isclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items which are of such contracts and excludes unrealised gains and losses on such uneven in frequency or amount contracts which are included in the Adopted IFRS income statement.
The Group has discretion over which forward foreign exchange The risk The Groups profits are significantly impacted by items contracts are settled in each financial year, which could impact such as cumulative adjustments to profit recognised on long-term the achieved rate both for the period and in the future.
contracts, impairments and reversals of impairments of goodwill, CARs and other intangible assets, sale and leasebacks of spare In addition, adjustments are made to exclude one-off past-service engines to joint ventures, research and development charges, costs on post-retirement schemes, the cost of restructuring reorganisation costs and foreign exchange translation which can programmes that involve the substantial closure or exit from a site, be uneven in frequency and or amount.
If significant either to the facility or line of business or other major transformation activities, profit for the year or to the trend in profit, appropriate disclosure the effect of acquisition accounting including any subsequent of the effect of these items is necessary in the Annual Report and impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets and a number financial statements to provide the information necessary to enable of other items, including this year the 671m financial penalties shareholders to assess the Groups performance.
from agreements with investigating authorities in connection with historic bribery and corruption involving intermediaries in The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
Our response We undertook detailed analysis of business Alternative performance measures can provide shareholders with performance at Group and segment level that sought to identify appropriate additional information if properly used and presented.
items that affect profit and the trend in profit which are uneven In such cases, measures such as these can assist shareholders in in frequency or amount at a much lower level than we would gaining a more detailed and hence better understanding of a otherwise have done and to assess the transparency of disclosure companys financial performance and strategy.
However, when of these items.
improperly used and presented, these kinds of measures might Our findings We identified a number of significant items that prevent the Annual Report being fair, balanced and understandable had affected profit for the year or the prior year that required by hiding the real financial position and results or by making the appropriate disclosure in the Annual Report to enable shareholders profitability of the reporting entity seem more attractive.
to assess the Groups performance.
The key items are: The significance of the risk has not changed during the year.
1 the 4,420m unrealised fair value losses 2015: 1,315m losses on Our response We assessed the appropriateness of the basis for the derivative contracts: adjustments between the Adopted IFRS income statement and the 2 t he 217m profit 2015: 140m profit arising from the impact of underlying income statement and the consistency of application improvements in lifecycle costs on long-term contracts: of this basis and we recalculated the adjustments with a particular focus on the impact of the foreign exchange rates used to translate 3 t he 35m profit 2015: nil arising from the impact of revising the foreign currency amounts in the underlying income statement.
We forecast long-term US dollar to sterling exchange rate on assessed whether or not the selection of forward foreign exchange long-term contracts: contracts settled in the year showed any evidence of management 4 the 98m loss 2015: 24m loss on long-term contracts arising bias.
We also assessed: i the extent to which the prominence given from new technical issues on Civil Aerospace large engines: to the underlying financial information and related commentary in the Annual Report compared to the Adopted IFRS financial 5 the 64m loss 2015: 83m loss arising from other estimate information and related commentary could be misleading: ii changes on long-term contracts: whether the Adopted IFRS and underlying financial information 6 t he 30m loss 2015: nil arising on Civil Aerospace new engine are reconciled with sufficient prominence given to that programmes: reconciliation: iii whether the basis of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently 7 the 918m 2015: 818m of research and development charges: applied: and iv whether the underlying financial information is 8 the 127m, net of a release of prior year provisions of 19m, not otherwise misleading in the form and context in which it 2015: 88m, net of a 30m release of restructuring charges: appears in the Annual Report.
9 t he 119m 2015: 71m profit arising from sales of spare Our findings We found no concerns regarding the basis of the engines to joint ventures: underlying financial information or its calculation and no 10 the 219m 2015: 75m impairments of goodwill: OTHER INFORMATION Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 181 11 the 671m 2015: nil financial penalties from agreements with We subjected 34 2015: 31 of the Groups reporting components to investigating authorities in connection with historic bribery audits for group reporting purposes and 13 2015: 11 to specified and corruption involving intermediaries in a number of risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually overseas markets: sufficiently financially significant to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that 12 the 53m 2015: nil release of accruals relating to termination needed to be addressed.
This work also provided further audit in prior years of intermediary services: coverage.
For the remaining components, the Group audit team 13 t he 306m loss 2015: nil from the restructuring of the performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine UK pension schemes, including the buyout of the Vickers Group our assessment that there were no significant risks of material Pension Scheme: misstatement within these components.
14 the 189m profit arising from refinement in the basis of The Group operates shared service centres for the bulk processing of measurement of the risk contingency for forecasts of future financial transactions in Derby UK, Indianapolis US and Singapore, revenue to be earned under long-term contracts in 2015: and the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not 15 the 65m profit arising from the release of provisions against separate reporting components.
Each of the service centres is subject previously impaired intangible assets for contractual to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing aftermarket rights in 2015. of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional audit We found that ample disclosure of these items had been provided in procedures are performed at certain reporting components to the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole 2015 address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over audit finding: ample.
SUMMARY AUDIT SCOPE In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we took REVENUE UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX into account the findings that we describe above and those for other, lower risk areas included in the output from our Dynamic Audit planning tool set out above.
Overall the findings from across the whole audit are that the financial statements have been prepared on the basis of appropriate accounting policies, reflect balanced estimates, and provide proportionate disclosure.
Having assessed these findings and evaluated uncorrected misstatements in the context of materiality and considered the qualitative aspects of the financial statements as a whole, we have not modified our 94% 2015: 94% 89% 2015: 92% opinion on the financial statements.
5% 2015: 5% 8% 2015: 6% 1% 2015: 1% 3% 2015: 2% 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT A udit for group reporting purposes TOTAL ASSETS Specified risk-focused Our measure of materiality for the Group financial statements as a audit procedures whole has reduced in line with the reduction in the Groups profit.
Group-level procedures only This was set at 30m 2015: 66m and was determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, averaged over the last three years in order to take into account the volatility in profits over this period, and normalised to exclude the impact of gains and losses on revaluation of foreign currency and other derivative financial instruments which could otherwise result in an inappropriate materiality level being determined.
This materiality 89% 2015: 91% measure represents 2.9% 2015: 4.5% of this benchmark and 0.6% 8% 2015: 7% 2015: 41.3% of total reported profit loss before tax.
We carry out 3% 2015: 2% audit procedures to assess the accuracy of the gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments which this year amounted to a 4.4bn loss 2015: 1.3bn loss as part of our audit of the Groups The Group audit team instructed component auditors, and the treasury operations.
auditors of the shared service centres, as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above, and the We report to the Audit Committee: i all material corrected information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved identified misstatements: ii uncorrected identified misstatements the component materiality assessments, which ranged from 0.3m exceeding 1.5m 2015: 3m for income statement items: and to 24m 2015: 0.2m to 52m, having regard to the mix of size and iii other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 19 of qualitative grounds.
182 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued the 47 2015: 21 of 42 components was performed by component we have identified material inconsistencies between the auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
The Group audit knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors team visited 33 2015: 31 component locations in the UK, the US, statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial Germany and Scandinavia, the purpose of which included an statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess meetings were also held with these component auditors and with the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or those of the higher risk components that were not physically visited.
the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, component auditor.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 4 OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been COMPANIES ACT 2006 IS UNMODIFIED received from branches not visited by us: or In our opinion: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has agreement with the accounting records and returns: or been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year is consistent with the financial we have not received all the information and explanations we statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic the Directors statements, set out on page 53, in relation to going report and the Directors report: concern and longer term viability: and we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: the part of the corporate governance report on page 60 relating to and the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES SCOPE OF REPORT AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement OF PRINCIPAL RISKS set out on page 113, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website the Directors viability statement on page 53, concerning the at www.
This report is made solely principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published in operation over the five years to 31 December 2021: or on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which the disclosures on page 53 and in Note 1 to the financial are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be statements concerning the use of the going concern basis read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the of accounting.
work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
6 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION JIMMY DABOO SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Under ISA UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material Chartered Accountants inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 15 Canada Square statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise London E14 5GL misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 13 February 2017
