RPC Group Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFRPC GROUP PLC ONLY REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion: RPC Group Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach Context This was PwCs first year as the auditor of RPC Group Plc.
Following a detailed risk assessment, areas of focus have been identified and defined below, which includes the accounting for the acquisition of Global Closure Systems GCS which was acquired by the Group on 29 March 2016.
Overview Overall group materiality: 7.6m which represents 5% of profit before tax after adding back the non-underlying operating costs set out in note 4.
Materiality Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Group accounts, we performed full scope audits of the financial information prepared for group consolidation purposes at 28 sites, and specific audit procedures focused on areas of significant risk in respect of a further 15 sites.
Audit scope In addition, the Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, fair value adjustments relating to acquisitions, goodwill and impairment assessments were audited by the Group engagement team.
Areas of As part of our supervision process, the Group engagement team visited component auditors responsible for all group reporting sites in focus Hong Kong, France and Germany, as well as being responsible for all in scope UK site audits.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: Acquisition accounting.
Classification and disclosure of non-underlying items.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisition accounting GCS fair value of acquired assets and liabilities We tested the fair value ascribed to intangible assets by understanding the GCS fair value of acquired assets and liabilities assumptions adopted, which critically include the forecast attrition rate in Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 56 and to note 26 in the financial relation to existing customers and the expected longevity of the relationships.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the GCS Group We engaged and evaluated the work of our specialists who challenged on 29 March 2016 for consideration on a cash free, debt free basis of 650m.
these underlying assumptions and confirmed that management had adopted The Group also made four smaller acquisitions during the year, but we have reasonable assumptions in the circumstances.
focused our work on GCS due to its relative size and significance to the RPC group as a whole.
We engaged our property valuation specialists to review the methodologies adopted and key assumptions utilised in valuing the freehold properties.
The fair We focused on this area because the determination of provisional fair values values were consistent with the evidence obtained.
in the opening balance sheet requires the directors to exercise a number of judgements, including in respect of the fair values of intangible assets, tangible We tested the provision for out of market contracts by considering the range fixed assets, provisions and other assets and liabilities, and the resulting of margins used in the underlying calculations to determine whether the goodwill of 285.5m.
contract is out of market and we agreed a sample of these calculations back to underlying contracts.
We confirmed that the methodology used by management Promens hindsight adjustments is consistent with that adopted on previous acquisitions in prior years and In addition a hindsight review was performed during the year in respect of the reasonable in the light of available data.
Promens acquisition, where the provisional fair values recognised on acquisition were reassessed and provisions were increased by 6.8m.
For the remaining fair values of other assets and liabilities, we evaluated the assessment and calculation of material assets and provisions to check that they Ace deferred and contingent consideration are accurate and reflect information that was known in relation to events that Management have reconsidered their estimate of the deferred and contingent existed at the transaction date.
consideration that is likely to be payable in relation to the acquisition of Ace.
We found the fair value ascribed to the acquired assets and liabilities in relation Based on the information currently available to them, they have reconsidered to GCS to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
the provision in the light of their current expectations as to the amount of consideration which they believe will be payable at the end of the earn out Promens hindsight adjustments period in December 2017 and released 18.9m of the provision.
Due to the Promens fair values having been provisional at the previous year end, a hindsight review was performed by management in the current year.
Additional provisions were recognised in relation to restructuring and a particular out of market contract.
The evidence obtained supported the value of the adjustment and that these conditions existed at the time of acquisition.
Ace deferred and contingent consideration We reviewed the basis of this calculation and inspected managements forecasts and the underlying agreement to conclude that the provision at the end of the period is reasonable based on information that is currently available.
RPC Group Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFRPC GROUP PLC ONLY continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy and whether Classification and disclosure of non-underlying items those items disclosed as non-underlying were consistent with the accounting Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 56 and to note 4 of the financial policy and the approach taken in previous accounting periods.
The financial statements include certain items totalling 68.2m Groups accounting policy to be appropriate and the classification of items to be which are disclosed as non-underlying which includes restructuring, closure consistent with the accounting policy and the treatment of similar items in prior and integration costs relating to the ongoing Promens Integration Programme years.
The non-underlying items include both costs and income and we have and the now completed Fitter for the Future Programme, acquisition costs and considered other items within the Income Statement to confirm completeness a partial release of the provision for deferred and contingent consideration in of the classification.
relation to the Ace acquisition.
The majority of exceptional items in the year relate to the Promens Integration Management have included these items as non-underlying using the Programme and to current and prior year acquisitions.
Our work confirmed that criteria set out in their accounting policy which is disclosed in note 1 to the the exceptional items are associated with projects of a non-underlying nature financial statements.
and we agreed a sample of the costs to supporting evidence.
We focus on this area because non-underlying items are not defined by Refer to the acquisition accounting area of focus for our audit response on the IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it therefore requires judgement deferred and contingent consideration on the Ace acquisition.
Incorrect classification of these items could lead to misinterpretation of the results.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is structured along five divisions being Bramlage, Superfos, Bebo, Ace and Promens, each with their own Financial Director who reports into the central team.
Each division contains multiple sites, across different regions, which are consolidated to form the Group financial statements.
Of the sites consolidated, we completed a full audit over 28 sites and specific audit procedures at a further 15 sites which in total accounted for 64% of Group revenue.
This scope involved sites in UK, France, Germany, Belgium, Sweden and Denmark.
There are no individually significant sites due to size or risk profile, and therefore we have not identified any significant components.
In addition, we performed analytical procedures at a level of disaggregation that is sufficient to determine whether any unusual movement or balances required additional audit procedures for all reporting components not captured by this scope.
As part of our supervision process, the Group team sent out detailed instructions to all teams involved with the 43 sites noted above and participated in clearance meetings and discussed the detailed findings of the audits with the component teams.
In addition the Group engagement team visited component auditors in Hong Kong, France and Germany, as well as being responsible for all in scope UK reporting locations.
In addition, the Company and certain centralised functions, including those covering post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, UK and corporate taxation, the fair values attributable to assets and liabilities in relation to acquisitions, goodwill and impairment assessments were audited by the Group audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 7.6m 2015: 5.8m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, after adding back non-underlying operating items as set out in note 4.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax and non-underlying items is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
The exclusion of operating items classified as non-underlying is consistent with previous periods and practice within the sector.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 380,000 2015: 300,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 79, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability tocontinue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 81, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions to report.
the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 54, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions to report.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
RPC Group Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFRPC GROUP PLC ONLY continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 81 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to add or carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business to draw attention to.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 79 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing material to add or have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be to draw attention to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 2 June 2016 The maintenance and integrity of the RPC Group Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
