Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of RSA Insurance Materiality: 35m 2015: 35m Group plc RSA or the Group for the year ended Group financial 31 December 2016 set out on pages 109 to 185.
0.6% 2015: 0.6% of Net Earned statements as a In our opinion: Premium 6,340m 2015: whole The financial statements give a true and fair view of 6,160m the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit Coverage 97% 2015: 93% of Net Earned for the year then ended: Premium The Group financial statements have been properly Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Recurring risks Insurance liabilities Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : The Parent Company financial statements have been IT systems and properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted controls by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Pensions and postThe financial statements have been prepared in accordance retirement obligations with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Deferred tax assets the IAS Regulation.
104 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows.
The Risk Our Response Insurance liabilities Subjective valuation With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, 2016: 12,676 million Insurance liabilities represent the single largest liability we performed the following procedures: gross, 10,424 million for the Group.
Valuation of these liabilities is highly Sector experience and Benchmarking: Comparison net: 2015: 12,191 judgmental because it requires a number of assumptions of assumptions, reserving methodologies and million gross, 10,203 to be made with high estimation uncertainty such as loss estimates of losses to expectations based on million net ratios, estimates of the frequency and severity of claims the Groups historical experience, current trends and, where appropriate, the discount rates for longer Refer to page 71 and benchmarking to our own industry knowledge tail classes of business by territory and line of business.
Group Audit including information relating to forthcoming The determination and application of the methodology Committee Report, legislation that may affect claims settlement speed and performance of the calculations are also complex.
policy and pages 159 A margin is added to the actuarial best estimate of Sensitivity analysis: Review of sensitivity analysis over to 164 financial insurance liabilities to make allowance for specific key judgements and assumptions, such as the discount disclosures risks identified in assessment of the best estimate.
rates for longer tail classes of business and Periodic The appropriate margin to recognise is a subjective Payment Order projections.
judgement and estimate taken by the directors, based on the perceived uncertainty and potential Independent re-performance: Independent for volatility in the underlying claims.
re-projection of the reserve balances for certain classes of business.
The determination of which Certain lines of business have greater inherent classes to reproject was based on risk assessment uncertainty, for example those where claims emerge and consideration of the evidence available from more slowly over time, or where there is greater other alternative data analysis procedures.
variability in claim settlement amounts.
This includes Abuse, Asbestos and Deafness classes: UK Professional Control design and observation: Evaluation of the and Financial Risk Classes: the Danish Workers governance around the overall Group reserving Compensation class: the Swedish Personal Accident process, including the scrutiny applied by the Local, classes: the Canadian General Liability class: and classes Regional and Group Reserving committees, as well of business affected by emerging industry issues such as Group level actuarial reviews.
We assessed as the impact of Periodic Payment Orders which are qualifications and experience of those responsible akin to annuities with longevity and inflation risk on UK and examined the output of the reviews to assess the motor business.
scope and depth of these processes.
Our evaluation of the methodologies and key assumptions for the most Completeness and accuracy of data significant and subjective classes of business enabled The valuation of insurance liabilities depends on us to assess the quality of challenge applied through complete and accurate data about the volume, amount the Groups reserving process.
and pattern of current and historical claims since they are often used to form expectations about future Margin evaluation: Evaluation of the appropriateness claims.
If the data used in calculating insurance liabilities, of the Reserve Committees recommended margin or for forming judgements over key assumptions, to be applied to the actuarial best estimate.
is not complete and accurate then material impacts We reviewed the Directors approach to, and analysis on the valuation of insurance liabilities may arise.
performed, in setting the margin.
In particular we considered the allowance for uncertainties inherent in the data and assumptions in developing the actuarial best estimate through inquiry with the Directors.
In addition to the above the audit team performed procedures to assess the completeness and accuracy of data: Control observation and re-performance: Evaluation and testing of key controls designed to ensure the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving process including both current and prior year case reserve data.
The controls included reconciliations between data in the actuarial reserving systems and data in the policy administration systems.
We tested controls through inspecting or re-performing the Groups reconciliations.
In addition, we tested the operation of controls over the valuation of individual claims reserves, such as large loss review controls, internal peer reviews and claims approvals.
We assessed whether such controls were performed in line with the Groups policies and with reference to underlying claims data.
Tests of detail: Re-performance of reconciliations between the claims data recorded in the policy administration systems and the data used in the actuarial reserving calculations to ensure the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving process.
We also compared samples of claims case reserves to appropriate documentation, such as reports from loss adjusters in order to test the controls over the valuation of individual claims reserves.
We used data analysis to focus our procedures on significant or anomalous claims.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Financial statements The Risk Our Response IT systems and Processing errors With the assistance of our own IT audit specialists, control environment Many financial reporting controls depend on the correct our procedures included: Refer to page 72 functioning of operational and financial IT systems.
Controls design and observation: Testing general IT Group Audit If these systems or controls fail, a significant risk of controls around system access, change management Committee Report.
error in reported financial information can arise from and computer operations within specific applications the failure to transfer data appropriately between pertinent to the financial statements by assessing systems or inappropriate changes being made to if appropriate policies are in place and adhered to financial data or systems.
Where general This is an area of significant risk in our audit due to the IT controls are not operating effectively, we addressed complexity of the IT infrastructure, particularly in the the increased risk of financial statement misstatement UK and Scandinavia, where there are legacy systems by extending the scope of our work.
This included which require increased manual inputs, relative to assessing the operation of controls over changes or more automated processes.
This risk is heightened transactions being recorded in the systems and testing in the current year given the Group is undertaking manual compensating controls, such as reconciliations IT transformation activities, including system between systems and other information sources, implementations and transitions, leading to changes through re-performance or inspection.
to processes and increasing the risk that controls Extended scope: Where general IT controls and do not continue to operate effectively.
compensating manual controls did not operate to mitigate a risk, we performed additional substantive testing, such as using extended sample sizes and performing data analysis routines over impacted accounts.
Pensions and Subjective valuation With the assistance of our own pension actuarial post-retirement Small changes in the assumptions and estimates specialists, our procedures included: obligations used can have significant effect on the valuation Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the key 2016: 8,893 million: of the Groups pension obligation and therefore assumptions such as discount rate, inflation rate 2015: 7,126 million the amount of the pension and post-retirement and life expectancy against externally derived data.
obligations and the Groups financial position.
Refer to page Assessing valuers credentials: Evaluating the Groups 72 Group Audit external valuers competence, objectivity, capability Committee Report, and scope of work.
page 118 accounting policy and pages Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of 164 to 168 financial the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of disclosures.
the defined pension obligation to these assumptions.
Deferred tax assets Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: 2016: 216 million: The Group has significant unrecognised deferred Control design and observation: Evaluating the 2015: 123 million tax assets in respect of tax losses.
There is inherent internal review and challenge process the Group uncertainty involved in forecasting future taxable profits, Refer to page undertakes during the development of the operational which determines the extent to which deferred tax 72 Group Audit plan and by the Group Risk Function during the assets are or are not recognised.
The recoverability Committee Report, approval process, and the extent to which the of the recognised deferred tax asset is dependent on page 117 accounting Group considered alternative outcomes.
the future profitability of the UK business in particular.
policy and pages Historical comparisons and our sector experience: 155 to 156 financial Comparing the expected growth rates to the Groups disclosures.
approved operating plan and assessing the accuracy of that forecasting process in the past.
We considered whether projected margins are achievable with reference to the businesss recent performance and operating plans, as well as our own industry knowledge.
Sensitivity testing: Sensitivity testing of taxable profits to assumptions such as the Combined Operating Ratio.
Own tax expertise: With the support of our own tax specialists and their knowledge of tax legislation, we also assessed the extent to which projected profits were taxable, in particular the Groups assumptions about how accumulated tax losses and other associated tax attributes can be utilized within the Group against UK taxable profits.
Assessing transparency: Assessing adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the assumptions supporting the deferred tax asset valuation and recognition.
106 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Net Earned Premium Materiality 6,340m 2015: 6,106m 35m 2015: 35m of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 35m was set at 35m 2015: 35m determined with reference to Whole financial statements a benchmark of Net Earned Premiums, of which it represents materiality 0.6% 2015: 0.6%.
We continue to believe that the benchmark 2015: 35m of net earned premiums is a fair reflection of revenue from the Groups operations as it is not subject to the volatility arising from multi-year insurance contracts that net written 22.5m premiums would be.
Range of materiality at 4 components We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or 15m-28m uncorrected misstatements exceeding 1.75m 2015: 1.75m, 2015: 15m-24m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted 1.75m reporting on qualitative grounds.
Misstatements Net Earned Premium 6,340m reported to the audit 2016 materiality 35m Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by committee 2015: 1.75m component auditors for four 2015: four of the Groups eight 2015: sixteen reporting components, being those located within the UK, Ireland, Canada and Scandinavia.
Net Earned Premium Gross Technical Provisions Within the Scandinavian reporting components, audits were 97% 2015: 93% 98% 2015: 96% performed by component auditors in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
The Groups central functions were not individually significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
As such, specified risk-focused procedures 4% 9% were performed on investments, treasury and reinsurance, which included agreeing financial information to supporting documentation.
84% 92% The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For the remaining 97% 98% components we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to Total Assets 98% 2015: 97% the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 15m to 28m 2015: 15m to 24m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across 34% the components.
All 2015: all of the audits of reporting 37% components were performed by the component auditors.
60% The Group audit team visited five 2015: five component 64% locations, being those in the UK, Ireland, Canada, Denmark and Sweden 2015: same to assess the audit risk and planned audit approach.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to 2016 2015 the Group audit team were discussed in more detail and the Full scope for Full scope for Residual Group audit team reviewed key elements of the component group audit group audit components auditors work papers.
Any further work required by the Group purposes purposes audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Specified Specified risk-focused risk-focused audit procedures audit procedures RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Financial statements 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Act 2006 is unmodified The directors statements, set out on page 63, in relation to In our opinion: going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The part of the Corporate Governance in the Directors and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Companys Companies Act 2006: and compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK The information given in the Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the We have nothing to report in respect of the above financial statements.
Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading Scope and responsibilities the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 103, the directors are responsible We have not identified material misstatement in those for the preparation of the financial statements and for being reports: and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on accordance with Companies Act 2006. the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks companys members as a body and is subject to important Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: published on our website at www.
com uk The Directors Viability Statement on page 63, concerning the auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this principal risks, their management, and, based on that, report as if set out in full and should be read to provide the directors assessment and expectations of the Groups an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work continuing in operation over the three years to 2019: or we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
The disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis ofaccounting.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor on which we are required to report by exception Chartered Accountants Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, 15 Canada Square based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have London identified other information in the annual report that contains a E14 5GL material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is 22 February 2017 otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or The Group Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the auditcommittee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
108 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016
