INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SAGA PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 January 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Financial Reporting Standard 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework' FRS 101 : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Saga plc for the year ended 31 January 2016, which comprise: Group Company the consolidated income statement the parent company balance sheet the consolidated statement of other the parent company statement of changes in equity comprehensive income the related notes 1 to 6 to the parent company the consolidated statement of financial position financial statements.
the consolidated statement of changes in equity the consolidated statement of cash flows the related notes 1 to 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, FRS 101.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality Overall Group materiality of 9.0m 2015: 9.6m which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax 2015: 5% of operating profit from continuing operations.
Audit scope The divisions and entities where we performed full audit procedures accounted for 89% of the Groups profit before tax, 93% of the Groups revenue and 96% of the Groups total assets.
Risk of material Valuation of insurance contract liabilities misstatement Valuation of goodwill Revenue recognition.
What has changed Subsequent to the disposal of the Allied Healthcare business on 30 November 2015, we assigned the component a review scope given that 10 months of business performance has been consolidated in the Groups results.
Destinology Limited was identified as a full scope component specific scope in the prior period as this is the first period in which the component has contributed 12 months revenue to the Group.
106 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The table below shows the risks of material misstatement we identified that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 460.0m, prior year comparative 492.2m What we concluded to the Risk Our responses to the risks Audit Committee Refer to the Audit Committee Report We understood, assessed and tested the Consistent with the prior page 71, accounting policy note 2.3 q design and operational effectiveness of period, our view is that the and disclosure note 25. key controls over the process applied by Saga best estimate is based Management in establishing insurance on assumptions which are For insurance contracts, estimates have contract liabilities, including controls over individually reasonable but to be made both for the expected ultimate the completeness and accuracy of data contain degrees of caution cost of claims reported at the reporting used by the internal actuary to project the when compared to our own date and for the expected ultimate cost claims liabilities.
of claims incurred but not yet reported at the reporting date IBNR.
It can take Supported by our actuarial specialists, we: We consider that the a significant period of time before the recorded insurance contract obtained an understanding of the ultimate claims cost can be established liabilities as at 31 January methodology and key assumptions applied with certainty.
Management makes 2016, including the margin by Management: judgement in respect of the trends in the and net of reinsurance, are challenged the methodology and key frequency and severity of bodily injury within a reasonable range.
assumptions against our knowledge of claims, the propensity for large claims thesector and the Groups own claims In addition we consider that to settle as Periodical Payment Orders the disclosures made provide experience: PPOs, the Ogden discount rate and performed independent actuarial projections information that assists in other regulatory developments.
understanding the on the motor classes which account for 95% Management sets reserves at a level that of the gross insurance contract liabilities: uncertainty inherent in the includes a margin over the actuarial best valuation of insurance reconciled the claims data supporting the estimate to take account of uncertainty actuarial projections to source systems and, contract liabilities.
that may impact the value of the insurance on a sample basis, verified the accurate contract liabilities ultimately settled.
recording of data against the underlying policy and claims documentation: and Note 18 d Insurance risk provides further assessed the level of reserve margin detail of these uncertainties and the compared to market practice and prior process for establishing insurance periods, in the context of areas of contract liabilities.
uncertainty for which the margin is held: and tested on a sample basis that the reinsurance recoveries were recorded in line with the underlying reinsurance contracts.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SAGA PLC CONTINUED Valuation of goodwill 1,485.0m, prior year comparative 1,471.4m What we concluded to the Risk Our responses to the risks Audit Committee Refer to the Audit Committee Report Managements impairment assessment of the We have concluded that page 71, accounting policy 2.3 g and recorded goodwill value was performed as at the recoverable amount of disclosure note 13.
We have evaluated and goodwill exceeds its carrying challenged this assessment, specifically: amount, with significant The goodwill recorded as at headroom remaining when 31January2016 is 1,485m and is we validated that the goodwill is key assumptions are stressed testedfor impairment by Management appropriately allocated to the operating for what we considered to be byconsidering the recoverable amount segments: cautious assumptions: of the goodwill as described in note 15. we validated that the cash flows underpinning the calculation were consistent the allocation of goodwill In determining the recoverable amount, with the five year strategic plan approved by to operating segments was judgement is applied by Management the Board: appropriate and in linewith inderiving: we challenged the reasonableness of growth the requirements ofIAS 36: forecasts during the five year plan period, the forecasts used were the forecast cash flows expected to having regard to back testing performed by areasonable basis upon arise from the approved five year plan Management to support the robustness of which to perform the and the underlying assumptions in the forecast process: impairment review: setting the five year plan: we compared the pre-tax discount rate the pre-tax discount rate the pre-tax discount rates that reflect to the Groups weighted average cost assumptions used were the market assessment of the time of capital and to discount rates used by within our view of an value of money and the risks specific similar UK companies that operate in the acceptable range, and to the cash flow estimates: and financial services and travel industries: areconsistent with the growth rate used to extrapolate we compared the long-term growth rates comparator groups: and cash flow projections beyond the five to economic and industry forecasts: and the assumption for year plan period.
we assessed the adequacy of sensitivity long-term growth was analysis performed by Management, consistent with comparator stressing each of the above assumptions groups and appropriate.
inisolation and in combination to best reflect what we considered to be  changes inthekeyassumptions.
108 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Revenue recognition 963.2m, prior year comparative 900.5m What we concluded to the Risk Our responses to the risks Audit Committee Refer to accounting policy 2.3 a and We considered the accounting policies There have been no material disclosure note 3. for the revenue streams in the insurance changes to the revenue andtravel segments, having regard to recognition policies applied ISAs UK & Ireland presume there may be the requirements of applicable revenue by Management during the pressures or incentives on Management recognition standards, being IAS 18 Revenue period, and the source and to commit fraudulent financial reporting and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
contribution of each revenue through inappropriate revenue recognition stream is consistent with the to meet budgeted performance measures.
We tested the design and operating prior period.
effectiveness of the controls in operation over We have assessed the revenue streams the insurance and travel revenue recognition We are satisfied that the in the insurance and travel segments as and recording processes.
consolidation adjustments to being most susceptible to manipulation align the revenue recognition through the application of inappropriate For the insurance segment we: policies across the Group revenue recognition policies: are appropriate.
for a sample of contracts, re-performed The insurance segment revenue earnings calculations to validate that We concluded that revenue consists primarily of revenue earned insurance revenues were being recognised has been recognised in the by the insurance intermediary and the over the policy term: year in compliance with the insurance underwriter.
The intermediary inspected a sample of contracts with Groups revenue recognition revenue from both external policyholders and underwriters to validate policies and relevant underwriters and the Group whether any contractual obligations to accounting standards.
underwriter is recognised upon provide post-placement services were commencement of the policy period inplace: of risk, whereas the Group underwriter performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue recognises revenue on an earned had been recorded in the correct period: basis over the term of the policy.
reviewed the consolidation adjustments For policies underwritten by the posted to eliminate the revenue transactions Group underwriter and placed via between the Group intermediary and Group the Group intermediary, consolidation underwriter: adjustments are processed to ensure challenged and corroborated reasons that the overall revenue recorded in for variances from prior periods based respect of risks underwritten by the on analytical procedures performed: and Group is recognised in accordance tested a sample of manual journals for with the Group policy 2.3 a. any indication of inappropriate revenue In the travel segment, revenue from recognition.
tour operations is recognised on the For the travel segment we: passengers date of departure and for cruise holidays, where the Group performed detailed testing of a sample operates the cruise ship, revenue is oftransactions to confirm that the tour recognised on a per diem basis over operator revenues and cruise holiday the duration of the cruise.
There is revenues were being recognised in line a risk that revenue recognition is withthe contract terms and applicable accelerated and recognised when accounting policy: holidays are booked or cash in respect performed cut-off testing to confirm revenue of those bookings is received.
had been recorded in the correct period: challenged and corroborated reasons for variances from prior periods based on analytical procedures performed: and tested a sample of manual journals for any indication of inappropriate revenue recognition.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to discontinued operations and assets held for sale for the Allied Healthcare business.
In the current year, this risk is no longer applicable as the sale of the Allied Healthcare business was completed on 30 November 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SAGA PLC CONTINUED Overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile and changes in the business environment in assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 31 reporting components being statutory entities of the Group, we selected 12 components covering entities within the United Kingdom and Gibraltar, which represent the principal trading entities within the Group.
We audited the complete financial information of seven components full scope components, for four components specific scope components we audited specific accounts within those components and for the remaining one component review scope component, relating to the discontinued operation, we performed analytical review procedures.
Our selections were based on the size or risk characteristics within the components and accounts that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements.
Of the remaining 19 components that together represent 3% of the Groups profit before tax: we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed on continuing operations: Profit before tax Revenue Total assets 1.
Other procedures 3 3 2 3 2 1 2 1 4% 6% 1% 3% 3% 1 5% 89% 96% 93% Changes from the prior year Subsequent to the disposal of the Allied Healthcare business on 30 November 2015, we assigned the component a review scope given that 10 months of business performance has been consolidated in the Groups results, contributing a loss equivalent to 5% of the Group profit before tax, and disclosed as a single item, loss from discontinued operations on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Involvement with component teams Other than the independant actuarial projections on the motor classes performed by our UK actuarial specialists, full scope audit procedures related to the underwriting component were performed by EY Gibraltar operating under our instruction.
We determined the appropriate level of our involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
We reviewed the component team working papers and participated in their planning and execution of the audit in respect of the risks identified above.
Audit procedures relating to the remaining components were performed directly by the primary audit team.
110 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on our audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our opinion in the Audit Committee Report.
Materiality When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9m, which is approximately 5% of the Groups profit before tax from continuing operations.
We have changed our basis of establishing materiality from operating profit in the prior year to profit before tax, as this is a key measure used by Management to reflect underlying segment performance in the current year: in the prior year profit before tax was distorted by the significant non-recurring expenses relating to the Initial Public Offering.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and there was nochange in final materiality from our original assessment at the planning stage.
Performance materiality On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment and reflecting the fact that the Group is recently listed, our judgement is that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely 4.5m.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts isundertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.9m to 3.4m.
Reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.45m, which isset at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Statements set out on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SAGA PLC CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no UK and Ireland information in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no 2006 reporting exceptions to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited byus: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review exceptions to report.
the Directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going concern: and requirements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity oftheentity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing Ireland reporting or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
John Headley Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 18 April 2016 112 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016
