FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion Materiality Overall group materiality: US$230 million which In our opinion: represents approximately 5% of consolidated SABMiller plcs consolidated financial statements and company profit before tax and exceptional items included financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair within operating profit.
view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at Audit scope The group is structured into five geographic 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit and cash ows for the year segments and one corporate segment.
Each then ended: geographic segment is a consolidation of a the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared number of country-based operating businesses.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We identied three segments Latin America, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Africa and Corporate, three country-based operating businesses Poland, Czech Republic the company financial statements have been properly prepared in and Australia and one joint venture MillerCoors accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting which, in our view, required an audit of their Practice: and complete financial information.
specified audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with procedures were also performed on certain of the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the groups associates Castel, CR Snow and consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Taken together, the components at which audit SABMiller plcs financial statements comprise: work was performed accounted for 73% of consolidated revenue, 72% of consolidated the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement profit before tax and 76% of consolidated profit of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2016: before tax and exceptional items.
the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 March 2016: Areas of focus Recoverability of the carrying value of the Australian cash generating unit CGU.
the consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: Carrying value of the investment in the Angolan the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity associate.
for the year then ended: and Provisions for uncertain tax positions.
the notes to the consolidated and company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Classication of exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the looked at where management made judgements, for example in respect preparation of the consolidated financial statements is IFRSs as of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
The financial and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Consistent reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of with all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override the company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, bias by management that represented a risk of material misstatement and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to check proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the occurrence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
98 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of the carrying value of the Australian CGU As required by applicable accounting standards in We satisfied ourselves that it was appropriate to use fair value less costs to dispose relation to goodwill, management conducts an impairment FVLCD as the basis for determining the recoverable amount and veried the review on an annual basis to identify if the carrying values mathematical accuracy of the cash ow model used to estimate FVLCD.
of goodwill and associated assets are considered We considered the accuracy of managements forecasting process by comparing to be impaired.
budgeted results to actual performance of the Australian business.
We specically focused on the Australian CGU given We assessed the consistency of the assumptions used in managements cash ow the size of the goodwill balance, and because the forecasts with those a market participant would use when valuing the business.
assessment of value involves subjective judgements which As part of this process we disaggregated and understood the individual cash ow are highly sensitive to small changes in assumptions.
components such as developments in the Australian beer category, Carlton and Management determines the recoverable amount of the United Breweries market share, the drivers of NPR growth projections such as price Australian CGU utilising a discounted cash ow model with and mix, costs and the resultant EBITA forecasts.
This included comparing inputs five-year projections and a terminal value.
Key assumptions to the businesss own forecasts based on latest internal board approved budgets within this model include net producer revenue NPR and external market data.
We also assessed the risks associated with achieving and associated estimates of short-term EBITA growth, the forecast, which provided data points on which to sensitise managements long-term growth rate, and discount rate.
assumptions over the first five years of the model.
Despite continued decline in the local beer category during We compared the discount and long-term growth rates used with market information the year, growth has been achieved through the successful and determined that they all fall within a range of external data.
execution of a number of initiatives, increased market share We satisfied ourselves that the assumptions used in determining managements and improved customer relationships.
estimate of the recoverable amount were reasonable.
As a result of its assessment, management estimated the We also considered the EBITDA multiple implied by managements estimate and recoverable amount is greater than the carrying value.
determined that it falls within a range of independently derived data.
Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that the model continues to be sensitive to judgement page 71 and goodwill note 10. a combination of changes in key assumptions.
Any reasonably possible change in these assumptions could reduce headroom and may result in an impairment.
We satisfied ourselves that this was appropriately highlighted within the disclosures in note 10.
Carrying value of the investment in the Angolan associate The devaluation of the Angolan kwanza, liquidity We veried the mathematical accuracy of the cash ow model used to support the restrictions and a deterioration in macroeconomic recoverable amount and determine the impairment charge.
conditions in the second half of the year led to a significant We assessed managements future cash ow forecasts by comparing them to downscaling of Castels business within Angola.
Based on latest internal board approved plans and considering them in light of macroeconomic these factors, management determined that an impairment indicators and production forecasts, recognising that the operations have been trigger existed and accordingly assessed the carrying value signicantly scaled down.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the country of the groups investment in its Angolan associate.
discount and long-term growth rates used and determined that they were within a The recoverable amount for the business, which was a key range of independently derived data and the model was not sensitive to reasonably determinant of the recoverable value of the investment, was possible changes in these assumptions.
based on a discounted cash ow model involving five-year The significant decline in the recoverable amount is primarily driven by a decrease in projections with a terminal value.
Key assumptions within forecast profitability.
We sensitised the cash ows to illustrate the impact of increased this model include estimates of short-term growth, profitability compared to plan and satisfied ourselves that the impairment charge was long-term growth rate and discount rate.
appropriate given the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment and the As a result of the assessment management has recorded downscaling of Castels operations within Angola.
an impairment charge of US$372 million in relation to the We satisfied ourselves that the assumptions used to determine the recoverable value investment in associate in addition to the recognition of the of the investment were reasonable.
groups share of Castels impairment and related charges.
We also satisfied ourselves that the impairment was appropriately highlighted and We specically focused on the Angolan assessment given disclosed in note 14. the quantum of the impairment charge, the economic uncertainties and the judgemental nature of the future cash ow forecasts.
Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant judgement page 71 and investments in associates note 14.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for uncertain tax positions Due to the group operating across a number of different We obtained a detailed understanding of the potential consequences of the groups tax jurisdictions it is subject to periodic challenges tax policies and the status of the ongoing local tax authority audits.
We assessed key by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments using, the normal course of business including transaction where applicable, our local and international specialised tax knowledge.
related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements We obtained explanations regarding the tax treatment applied to material transactions where centralised functions support a number of and arrangements and the corresponding provisions recorded.
corroborative evidence supporting these explanations, including reading Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is communications with local tax authorities and copies of tax advice obtained by uncertain, the directors establish provisions based on management from its external tax advisers.
their judgement of the probable amount of the liability, We also challenged the tax positions taken for each material exposure, in particular orrecovery.
where there have been significant developments with local tax authorities, and satisfied We focused on these judgements in assessing the ourselves that relevant provisions were appropriate.
quantication and likelihood of the potential exposures and therefore the level of provisions required against them.
In particular we focused on the impact of recent rulings and the status of ongoing local tax authority audits.
Refer to the audit committee review of areas of significant judgement page 72.
Classication of exceptional items The group has historically had significant levels of We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate exceptional items which are disclosed separately within the corroborating evidence.
income statement and are excluded from managements We considered whether the classication of individual items as exceptional reporting of the underlying results of the business.
In the was consistent with the groups accounting policy and treatment in prior years year the group identied US$556 million of net exceptional where applicable.
items within operating profit comprising charges of US$585 million and credits of US$29 million.
We considered whether the group has taken a balanced approach to disclosure of these items, checking that exceptional one-off items of income were treated The treatment of exceptional items is explained consistently with one-off items of cost.
within the group accounting policy.
In the year exceptional items primarily relate to impairments and other related Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classication charges in respect of the groups investment in Angola of these items was consistent with prior years and in line with the groups policy.
and costs associated with the proposed Anheuser-Busch InBev transaction.
We focused on this area because the classication of exceptional items requires judgement and they are also excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration.
Consistency in the identication and presentation of these items is also important to ensure comparability of year on year reporting within the Annual Report.
100 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we tailored the audit scope We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed misstatements identied during our audit above US$20 million 2015: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements US$20 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Going concern group operates.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors The group is structured in five geographic segments being Latin statement, set out on page 95, in relation to going concern.
America, Africa, Asia Pacic, Europe and North America.
A sixth We have nothing to report having performed our review.
corporate head ofce segment is managed at a group level.
Each Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we geographic segment is a consolidation of a number of country-based have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the operating businesses, regional and central functions and the groups directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to interests in associates and joint ventures within that geographical region.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Based on this, we determined the appropriate segment and operating Wehave nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
businesses to perform work over based on factors such as the size of the balances, the areas of focus as noted above, known or historical As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded accounting issues and the desire to include some unpredictability in that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the our audit procedures.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and We considered the type of work that needed to be performed on these that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the segments and operating businesses by us, as the group engagement date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis network rms and other rms operating under our instruction.
work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those segments However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, or operating businesses to be able to conclude whether sufficient these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion ability to continue as a going concern.
on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Other required reporting We identied three segments Latin America, Africa and Corporate, three country-based operating businesses Poland, Czech Republic and Australia and one joint venture MillerCoors which, in our view, Consistency of other information required an audit of their complete financial information.
specified audit Companies Act 2006 opinion procedures were also performed on certain of the groups associates In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the Castel, CR Snow and Anadolu Efes.
This, together with procedures directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements performed on regional and central functions and at the group level, are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
accounted for 73% of consolidated revenue, 72% of consolidated profit ISAs UK & Ireland reporting before tax and 76% of consolidated profit before tax and exceptional Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in items.
At the group level, we also carried out analytical and other our opinion: procedures on the financial information not covered by the procedures described above.
information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with theinformation in the audited financial The involvement of the group engagement team in the work of the statements: or component auditors included site visits, conference calls, meetings with local management, review of work papers, attendance at audit clearance apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the depending on the signicance of the component and the extent of course of performing our audit: or accounting and audit issues arising.
Materiality We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together the statement given by the directors on page 96, in accordance with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial necessary for members to assess the groups and companys statements as a whole.
position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
financial statements as a whole as follows: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Overall group US$230 million 2015: US$250 million.
the section of the Annual Report on page 71, as required by materiality provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the audit How we Approximately 5% of profit before tax US$4,074 million, committee does not appropriately address matters communicated determined it adjusted for exceptional items included within by us to the audit committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Rationale for We considered this adjusted measure to be the most benchmark relevant in assessing the recurring financial applied performance of the group.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, group and of the principal risks that would threaten in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified the solvency or liquidity of the group by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have this responsibility.
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Corporate governance statement the directors conrmation on page 16 of the Annual Report, in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Responsibilities for the financial We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
statements the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements the directors explanation on pages 95 and 96 of the Annual and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial period they have done so and why they consider that period statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal prior consent in writing.
risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the What an audit of financial statements involves longer-term viability of the group.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures inthe financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report and adequately disclosed: having performed our review.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and Adequacy of accounting records and information andexplanations received the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors in our opinion: judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, we have not received all the information and explanations we require and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
for our audit: or We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing branches not visited by us: or the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination ofboth.
the company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the accounting records and returns.
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware Directors remuneration of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 the implications for our report.
opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Richard Hughes BA FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Companies Act 2006. for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10 June 2016 102 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016
