Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc Overview Report on the financial statements Materiality Our opinion Overall Group materiality: 6.8 million, which represents 5% of In our opinion: Group underlying profit before tax as defined in Note 2.2 to the Savills plcs Group financial statements and Company financial financial statements.
statements the 'financial statements' give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at Audit scope 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups We conducted audit work in the UK, Germany, US and Asia and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Pacific, and across all four of the Groups business lines.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Audits of the complete financial information were performed on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the businesses in the UK, US, Hong Kong, Shanghai China 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union: Central and Australia, as well as the German Investment the Company financial statements have been properly prepared Management business acquired in 2015. in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and We carried out procedures on parts of the business which as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies accounted for 83% 2015: 83% of Group revenues and 92% Act 2006: and 2015: 86% of Group underlying profit before tax.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Areas of focus Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for the Groups European businesses.
What we have audited Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off for The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts transaction income in the investment management and the 'Annual Report', comprise: transactional advisory businesses.
Provisions for litigation on valuations.
the Consolidated and Company statements of financial position Recoverability of trade receivables.
as at 31 December 2016: Regulatory compliance obligations.
the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland 'ISAs UK & Ireland '.
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the and risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context Savills plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is structured across four business lines: Transactional Advisory, Property Consultancy, Property and Facilities Management, and Investment Management Services.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the four business lines, spread across four geographical regions, UK, US, Europe and AsiaPacific.
Savills plc 86 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as 'areas of focus' in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for European Focusing on the European businesses, we evaluated and businesses challenged the Directors future cash flow forecasts and the Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, pages 102 and 112 process by which they were drawn up, and tested the underlying Significant Accounting Policies and pages 124 to 125 notes.
We compared managements forecast with the latest Board-approved budget and found them to be The Group carried 309.8m of goodwill at 31 December 2016 consistent.
2015: 269.7m of which 4.4m related to new acquisitions made during 2016.
We challenged: the key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates in the The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future cash flows of forecasts by comparing them with historical results, as well as the underlying cash-generating units CGUs and there is a risk economic and industry forecasts for the relevant international that if these cash flows do not meet the Directors expectations, property markets: and the goodwill will be impaired.
the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost No impairment charge was recognised in the year ended of capital for the Group and comparable organisations, and 31 December 2016. assessed the specific risk premium applied to each CGU in question.
Given their materiality, we did not regard the acquisitions in the year as warranting particular focus in relation to impairment of We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within goodwill.
This included sensitising the discount We focused our assessment on the CGUs in Europe with material rate applied to the future cash flows, and the short and longeramounts of goodwill.
The Groups performance in Europe term growth rates and profit margins in Europe due to continued improved during 2016, but there is continued political and uncertainty in the macro-economic environment for a number of economic uncertainty across European markets.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions, both individually or in aggregate, would result in goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
We did not regard this to be reasonably possible.
Given the level of headroom and improved business performance in Savills Europe for 2016, we were satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill in Europe had been appropriately assessed.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off for For material transactions, we evaluated the commercial rationale transaction income in the investment management and and the revenue recognition process adopted and determined that transactional advisory businesses the related revenue had been recorded on a consistent basis Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report and Note 2 to the across the Group in accordance with Group policies and financial statements for the Directors disclosures of the related applicable IFRSs.
accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
We tested a sample of revenue transactions to underlying Our specific audit focus was on the risk that revenue may be contracts and third party completion documentation, for example, recorded in the incorrect period in respect of transaction fees in property sales completion statements, or asset or property the transactional advisory and investment management management contracts, determining that these sales had taken businesses, in light of the incentive schemes for management in place and were recorded in the correct period.
We additionally those businesses designed to reward performance.
tested a sample of revenue to supporting documentation, cash receipts and related contracts, in order to verify that the income For more complex contracts, the recognition of revenue is largely was correctly calculated.
dependent on the date the underlying transaction is deemed to be completed.
There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue recognition in the period.
Savills plc 87 Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Provisions for litigation on valuations In order to assess the accuracy and completeness of the Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, pages 105 and 112 provisions held at the balance sheet date we performed the Significant Accounting Policies and page 138 notes.
following procedures: The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in the normal Obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying course of business on valuations performed, which are third party documentation received by the Group.
judgemental in nature and therefore susceptible to challenge.
Obtained and read the legal insurance contract, and verified The number of new claims has continued to decline in recent that the terms were appropriately accounted for.
years, particularly in respect of UK valuations.
Met with the Groups internal and external counsels to consider in detail a number of the cases, including the potential exposure Our audit procedures took into account both the potential after taking into account the Groups insurance cover.
exposure and the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, Checked the amounts and other details in respect of each new as well as the adequacy of the insurance cover held by the Group.
claim to the relevant supporting documentation.
Reviewed the legal cases settled during the year and, where There is also the risk that legal exposures may arise for which adequate provisions are not held.
relevant, traced the related cash payments to bank statements.
Examined board minutes, legal expenses incurred during the year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
We determined, based on these procedures, that management had made reasonable judgements in their assessment process for determining the level of provision held.
Our procedures did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Recoverability of trade receivables In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables, we Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, page 103 Significant performed the following procedures: Accounting Policies and page 134 notes.
Requested confirmations for a sample of client debtor balances There is a heightened risk of customers defaulting on payments, in certain locations.
given the current global economic environment.
Where a response to our request was not received, we sought to agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post-year The Group is therefore exposed to a heightened risk of default in end cash receipts.
respect of trade receivables, and this increased risk is factored into Where both a response and cash had not been received post our audit approach with respect to the provision against trade year-end, we performed alternative procedures, by agreeing receivables.
amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and completion documentation.
Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not yet paid with Savills local management teams.
We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated further provisioning against trade receivables was required.
We also evaluated the Group's credit control procedures, and assessed the ageing profile on trade receivables, focusing on older debts.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer.
Based upon the above, we are satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgements that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
Savills plc 88 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Regulatory compliance obligations We updated our understanding of the legal and regulatory The Group is subject to Financial Services, Chartered Surveyor, framework within which the Group operates, discussed the tax, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws and regulations Groups approach to regulatory compliance with management across a number of international jurisdictions.
internationally and with internal legal counsel, and evaluated managements internal control procedures.
Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations could have a material impact on the results of the business and the We considered that appropriate procedures are in place to identify reputation for integrity on which it relies.
any instances of non-compliance that would have a material impact on the results and reputation of the business.
The Directors did not identify any material instances of noncompliance in the year.
We read relevant correspondence with regulators to support managements assertions, as well as board minutes and internal audit reports.
We examined legal expense accounts and considered the results of our audit work in other areas to determine whether there was any evidence of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We identified no evidence of such instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
How we tailored the audit scope Based upon Group materiality, we did not carry out detailed audit We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed procedures on Savills Europe.
Local audit teams perform statutory enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial audits of subsidiary companies in Europe where required by local statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure legislation.
These audits were carried out to the same timetable as of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the the Group audit and, accordingly, we were able to incorporate the industry in which the Group operates.
results of their work into our overall risk assessment.
Taken together, our audit procedures accounted for 83% 2015: In order to direct and supervise the Group audit, the Group 83% of Group revenues and 92% 2015: 86% of Group underlying engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant profit before tax.
This included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
The Group The Groups accounting process is structured around a local engagement team held regular meetings throughout the year, and finance function in each of the territories in which the Group visited the audit teams located at the Savills Asia Pacific head office operates.
In Europe, these functions maintain their own accounting in Hong Kong, given the significance of this region to the Group, the records and controls and report to a Head Office finance team in US head office in New York and the regional office in Shanghai.
This the UK through submission of management reporting packs.
In ensured that we had a comprehensive understanding of the results Asia Pacific, these functions similarly report to a regional finance of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas team in Hong Kong, and in the US the local functions report to the of focus.
US finance team in New York.
At a Group level, a separate finance team consolidates the reporting packs of Europe, Asia Pacific, UK, The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a US and the centralfunctions.
number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included pensions, tax and shareIn our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, as based payments.
defined in our areas of focus, those businesses in the UK and US, Hong Kong, Shanghai China Central and Australia within the Asia Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed Pacific region, and the German Investment Management business for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
acquired in 2015, required an audit of their complete financial information.
We used component auditors from PwC network firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of the identified territories outside the UK to perform this audit work.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed by local teams in Beijing, Shenzhen, Japan and Singapore, focusing on revenue and receivables based on the audit risks we had identified in theseareas.
Savills plc 89 Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million 2015: materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
0.3 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items Going concern and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
statement, set out on page 84, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to Overall Group 6.8 million 2015: 6.0 million.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
materiality We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
How we 5% of Group underlying profit determined it before tax as defined in Note 2.2 As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded to the financial statements.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Rationale for Based on our professional Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in benchmark judgement, we determined operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least applied materiality by applying a one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part benchmark of 5% of underlying of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going profit before tax.
We believe that concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events underlying profit before tax is the or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a most appropriate measure as it guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a eliminates any disproportionate going concern.
effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-onyear basis for our work.
Savills plc 90 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 84, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the 'Code', that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 53-56, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 26 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the or to draw attention to.
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they or to draw attention to.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Savills plc 91 Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable in our opinion: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we have not received all the information and explanations we an assessment of: require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently received from branches not visited by us: or applied and adequately disclosed: the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the the Directors: and accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial Directors remuneration statements.
Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a Companies Act 2006. reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Other Companies Act 2006 reporting procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the this responsibility.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Corporate governance statement with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider the Code.
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP set out on page 84, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London true and fair view.
21 March 2017 Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Savills plc 92 Report and Accounts 2016
