Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Materiality Overall Group materiality: 32.2 million Schroders plc Group financial statements and Company financial which represents 5% of profit before tax statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and exceptional items.
state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December Audit scope The Group has three business segments, Asset 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys Management, Wealth Management and the Group cash flows for the year then ended: segment, consisting of over 140 legal entities the Group financial statements have been properly prepared operating in 27 countries.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We audited the complete financial information IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: for 14 legal entities, due to their size and or risk the Company financial statements have been properly prepared characteristics.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Taken together, the territories and functions in as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies the scope of audit work accounted for 84% of the Act 2006: and Groups revenues, 84% of the Groups profit before the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the tax and exceptional items and 99% of the Groups requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group total assets.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Area of focus Risk of misstatement of revenue and cost of sales.
What we have audited Valuation and completeness of uncertain The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and tax liabilities.
Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Acquisition accounting.
the consolidated and the Schroders plc statements of financial position as at 31 December 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income for the year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the consolidated and the Schroders plc statements of changes in equity and cash flow statements for the year then ended: and We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the the notes to the financial statements, which include significant risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, accounting policies and other explanatory information.
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are management override of internal controls, including evaluating identified as audited.
whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act as areas of focus in the table overleaf.
We have also set out how we 2006, and applicable law.
tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
164 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business and financial review Notes to the accounts Independent Auditors report Consolidated financial statements Schroders plc financial statements Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of misstatement of revenue and cost of sales Refer to page 60 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note We understood the significant revenue and cost of sale items 2 Revenue, note 3 Cost of sales.
and identified where there is a higher risk of error, due to manual processes, bespoke or complex contractual terms, and areas Revenue, which comprises management fees, performance fees, of judgement so that we could focus our work in these areas.
other income and Wealth Management interest income, is the result of business activities within both the Asset Management We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls in place across and Wealth Management segments.
Commissions, external fund the Group relevant to these revenue and cost of sales calculations, manager fees, distribution fees payable and Wealth Management including the assets under management, set up and maintenance of interest expense are recorded as an expense within cost of sales.
contractual terms and fee billing and commission payment systems.
The Group recognised net operating revenue of 1,712.8 million 2015: 1,600.7 million.
We also obtained and assessed independent assurance reports for the relevant controls at the third party administrators and considered The calculations of revenue and cost of sales are largely automated.
whether there was any impact on our audit.
There are a number of inherent risks in calculating certain types of revenue and cost of sales including the interpretation and manual Where the calculations are automated, we used computer assisted input of key contractual terms and the identification and valuation auditing techniques to recalculate revenue, management fee rebates of applicable Assets Under Management AUM, which could result and commissions.
On a sample basis, we agreed key inputs in to the in errors.
The bespoke and complex nature of certain investment systems back to contracts, and re-performed calculations involving management agreements, distribution agreements and other manual processes.
contractual terms involving multiple entities globally requires effective monitoring to ensure all financial terms and conditions We re-performed a sample of performance fee calculations to check are captured completely and accurately and applied appropriately.
that performance fees were appropriately calculated.
We tested the data used to the Groups underlying systems, agreed the basis of Performance fees also remain an area of focus.
The calculation calculation to the contractual terms and agreed the benchmark basis is set out in the relevant fund prospectus or investment performance to an independent third party source.
In addition to the complexity of interpreting the agreements, there is a risk of error as the Our testing did not identify any evidence of material misstatement.
calculation involves manual components and may involve some complexity as the performance of relevant assets is compared to a relevant benchmark.
Valuation and completeness of uncertain tax liabilities Refer to page 60 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note We compared the Groups transfer pricing policy against our 6 Tax expense.
understanding of the activities of the Group and the OECD principles for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations and local The Group is required to makes estimates in respect of any tax legislation.
We tested the application of the transfer pricing by uncertain tax positions.
As the Group operates across multiple legal entity within our revenue testing through recalculation of the countries with differing tax regimes, there is an inherent risk in the allocations and agreeing the key inputs to underlying agreements.
interpretation and application of the legislation in each territory in respect of the Groups global business.
For most organisations, We considered managements approach to uncertain tax positions there is increased focus and challenge from tax authorities over and tested the calculation of the current and deferred tax positions the application of legislation, both locally in individual territories estimated at the individual legal entity level and at the Group level.
and cross border, which increases the uncertainty over the completeness and valuation of tax balances, which led us to We considered management bias and performed sensitivity analysis focus on this area.
to determine the impact of changes in the key assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
For a number of operating companies within the Group the taxable profit is generated, in part, through the allocation of total Group We did not identify any material misstatements.
revenue based on the proportion of total activities performed in each country.
This procedure is governed by a transfer pricing policy to ensure revenue and costs are recognised appropriately in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
The Group had a tax charge of 127.9 million 2015: 121.6 million for the year.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 165 Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Acquisitions accounting Refer to page 60 Audit and Risk Committee Report, note 29 Business We have read and understood the legal agreements entered into combinations and note 30 Events after the reporting date.
by the Group in relation to the acquisitions and considered the basis of their inclusion in the consolidated financial statements.
During the year the Group entered into a number of acquisition agreements, some of which completed in the year.
The accounting We tested the consideration paid and the identification and valuation for these can be complex, including the identification and valuation of the identified net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
We have of assets and liabilities acquired and, in certain circumstances there tested that the accounting treatment is in line with IFRS 3 Business is judgement as to whether they should be consolidated.
This was Combinations and IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures.
an area of focus for our audit.
We tested and challenged the valuation models prepared by the The Group is required to identify and assess the fair value of the Group for the separately identified intangible assets by: comparing assets acquired and the valuation of the goodwill attributable, which the key assumptions for example discount rate and longevity of is inherently subjective in nature.
Our focus was firstly on assessing acquired client relationships against available market data: and whether the Group had acquired the appropriate control of the testing key data inputs to source records for example assets under business to be treated as a subsidiary and secondly to assess management and historical client attrition rates.
managements determination of fair value for the identified assets and liabilities acquired.
We also performed sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of changes in the key assumptions for example discount rate At 31 December 2016 the goodwill on acquisitions total and longevity of acquired client relationships, both individually 454.9 million and acquired intangible assets total 89.3 million.
After the year end, 31 December 2016, the Group completed We have evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures included an acquisition that was agreed during the year and our work within the Group financial statements relating to the acquisitions included assessment of the disclosures made in respect completed during the year and since 31 December 2016 and up of that acquisition.
to the date of this report.
We did not identify any material misstatements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, statements as a whole.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
In connection with this years audit the Group team met with all the local audit teams responsible for each of the 14 components identified The Group operates with four centralised finance functions in the UK, as being significant to the scope of Group audit, as well as holding Luxembourg, Switzerland and Singapore along with smaller functions regular discussions with those teams throughout the audit process.
in many of the territories in which they operate.
In addition we met with the Schroders centralised finance teams in the UK, Singapore, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
In establishing the overall approach to the audit of the Group, we considered our assessment of the risk of material misstatement The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number within each entity.
We concluded that 14 entities generated significant of Group items, including valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible activities or balances to the results of the Group through the assets, and employee benefits expense, were audited by the Group consideration of various factors such as, their contribution to the engagement team.
Groups profit before tax and exceptional items, their contribution to significant risk areas and to provide sufficient evidence over each line Materiality item in the Groups financial statements.
We determined the audit work The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
that needed to be performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together by local teams within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms.
Where with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of the work was performed by local audit teams, we determined the level our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures of involvement we needed to have in the audit work for those entities to on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
166 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business and financial review Notes to the accounts Independent Auditors report Consolidated financial statements Schroders plc financial statements Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Other required reporting for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Overall Group materiality 32.2 million 2015: 30.4 million.
Companies Act 2006 reporting How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course exceptional items.
of the audit: Rationale for benchmark Profit before tax is a standard benchmark the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors applied used in determining materiality.
We have Report for the financial year for which the financial statements adjusted it for exceptional items given the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and one-off nature of these items, which would the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been distort the basis of the calculation.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.5 million Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we 2015: 1.5 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Report, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of set out on page 67, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to the audit: report having performed our review.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 63 to 64 and in the Directors Report page 66 in respect Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we to internal control and risk management systems and about share have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 50 to 65 with respect to the Companys corporate As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded governance code and practices and about its administrative, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority.
that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 167 Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued ISAs UK & Ireland reporting the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have nothing describe those risks and explain how they material to add or Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, are being managed or mitigated.
in our opinion: the Directors explanation on page 67 of the We have nothing information in the Annual Report is: We have no Annual Report, in accordance with provision material to add or materially inconsistent with the exceptions to report.
C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have to draw attention to.
information in the audited financial assessed the prospects of the Group, over statements: or what period they have done so and why they apparently materially incorrect based consider that period to be appropriate, and on, or materially inconsistent with, their statement as to whether they have a our knowledge of the Group and reasonable expectation that the Group will Company acquired in the course be able to continue in operation and meet its of performing our audit: or liabilities as they fall due over the period of otherwise misleading.
their assessment, including any related the statement given by the Directors on We have no disclosures drawing attention to any page 97, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 exceptions to report.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors the Code, that they consider the Annual statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in and understandable and provides the relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was information necessary for members to substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making assess the Groups and Companys position inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their and performance, business model and statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with strategy is materially inconsistent with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the our knowledge of the Group and Company statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in acquired in the course of performing the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 58 We have no to 65, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the exceptions to report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and Code, describing the work of the Audit and explanations received Risk Committee does not appropriately Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, address matters communicated by us in our opinion: to the Audit and Risk Committee.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity branches not visited by us: or of the group the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the accounting records and returns.
the Directors confirmation on page 63 We have nothing We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
of the Annual Report, in accordance with material to add or provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have to draw attention to.
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
168 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Business and financial review Notes to the accounts Independent Auditors report Consolidated financial statements Schroders plc financial statements Directors remuneration What an audit of financial statements involves Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies assurance that the financial statements are free from material Act 2006. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified and adequately disclosed: by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made this responsibility.
by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, prepared by the Company.
We have no exceptions to report arising and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence of the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Our responsibilities and those of the Directors the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible for the preparation materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in for and on behalf of  LLP giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into London whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 1 March 2017 consent in writing.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the Schroders plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 169 High net worth individuals We provide a full suite of wealth management services, including wealth planning, portfolio management and banking and treasury services.
170 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Shareholder information Shareholder information 172 Five year consolidated 173 financial summary Glossary 174 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 171
