34 | 35 Independent Auditors Report Opinion on In our opinion the Financial Statements: financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2016 and statements of of its return for the year then ended: The Scottish have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Investment Trust Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in PLC the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Cash Flow Statement, Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the and the Directors appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within accounting policy assessment of the a to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the principal risks that Company in the Strategic Report on page 14. would threaten We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the solvency or the Directors' confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of liquidity of the the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business Company model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 28 and 53 to 58 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement on page 28 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 14 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of misstatement the engagement team.
indd 34 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors Report continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of listed investments Listed investments of 891.5m 2015: 772.3m We have performed the following procedures to represent the most significant number on the balance address this risk: sheet and are the main driver of the Companys critically assessed the design and implementation performance.
Listed investments represented 95.3% of the controls over valuation and ownership of 2015: 91.9% of total assets of the Company at 31 investments: October 2016 see accounting policy b and note 8. reviewed the Northern Trust controls report There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the to understand and evaluate the design and listed investments held by the Company may not be implementation of controls around ownership of reflective of fair value.
There is a risk over whether investments: listed investments recorded are the property of the confirmed 100% of the bid prices of quoted Company.
investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: and confirmed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to confirmations received directly from the custodian and depositary.
Recognition of investment income We have performed the following procedures to Dividend income of 28.3m 2015: 23.8m represents address this risk: 98.8% 2015: 98.7% of the total income of the trust see note 1. critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over revenue recognition including Dividends from equity shares are accounted for on an managements monitoring of accuracy and ex-dividend basis.
Overseas dividends are accounted completeness of revenue: for on an ex-dividend basis and included gross of for a sample of investments held, agreed the exwithholding tax.
dividend dates and rates for dividends declared There is a risk that revenue is incomplete.
during the year and agree the amounts recorded within the general ledger to confirm that the recognition policy has been applied consistently: and agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 30.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes materiality it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.5m 2015: 7.3m, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 169,800 2015: 147,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 35 05 01 2017 08:51 36 | 37 Independent Auditors Report continued An overview of Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, the scope of our including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work audit to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We note that the accounting and administration for the Company has been outsourced to R&H Fund Services Limited RHFSL as administrator.
As part of our audit we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in place at RHFSL.
Opinion on Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment.
In our other matters opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Companies Act accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or received and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have accounting records not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain Remuneration disclosures of Directors Remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Statement Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you information in the if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
indd 36 05 01 2017 08:51 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Independent Auditors Report continued Respective As explained more fully in the Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for responsibilities the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and of Directors and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in auditor accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free statements from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 3 January 2017 142443 SIT AnReview PRINT.
