108 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc In our opinion: Opinion on financial statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent SevernTrent Plc companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related consolidated notes 1 to 45 and parent company notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Going Concern and the appropriateness of the Going Concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial directors assessment statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within of the principal risks thestrategic report on page 47. that would threaten thesolvency or liquidity We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: ofthegroup the Directors conrmation on page 48 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 48-53 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the Going Concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 47 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we Independence confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest Our assessment of risks effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the of material misstatement engagement team.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 109 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables inSevern Trent Water Limited 124.3 million note21 A proportion of Severn Trent Water Limiteds customers do not or cannot We reviewed and challenged the information used to pay their bills which results in the need for provisions to be made for nondetermine the bad debt provision by considering cash payment of the customer balance.
There is significant judgment involved collection performance against historical trends and in calculating the bad debt provision, particularly regarding the estimation the level of bad debt charges over time.
Specically, we of future cash collection.
reviewed the actual history of slow paying customers in Severn Trent Water Limited in the period using data Provisions are made against Severn Trent Water Limiteds trade analytics to understand the collection of previously aged receivables based on historical experience of levels of recovery from debtors and to recompute the ageing analysis.
We tested accounts in particular ageing categories.
the design and implementation of key management review controls and those relating to the production of the data used in the bad debt model.
We have also agreed a sample of this data back to its source, being the billing system.
Revenue recognition risk in relation to the estimation of unbilled revenue in Severn Trent Water Limited 193.0 million note 21 For water and waste water customers with water meters, the amount We challenged the validity of managements estimate recognised depends upon the volume supplied, including an estimate of current year accrued revenue by comparing actual of the sales value of units supplied between the date of the last amounts billed to the estimate made in the prior year to meter reading and the year end.
This is a key judgment because the determine the accuracy of the estimation techniques.
estimated usage is based upon historical data and assumptions around Inaddition, we used data analytics to recompute the total consumption patterns.
level of unbilled revenue for the current year in Severn Trent Water Limited as well as testing the design and implementation of key management review controls andthose relating to the key data inputs to the model.
Wealso agreed a sample of this data back to its source.
Determining the classication of costs between operating expenditure and capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited note 18 Severn Trent Water Limited has a substantial capital programme xed We assessed the groups capitalisation policy to determine asset additions in the year 411.5 million which has been agreed with compliance with relevant accounting standards and tested the regulator Ofwat and therefore incurs significant expenditure in the operating effectiveness of controls over the application relation to the development and maintenance of both infrastructure of the policy to expenditure incurred on projects within the and non-infrastructure assets.
Expenditure in relation to increasing groups capital programme during the year.
This includes the capacity or enhancing the network is treated as capital expenditure.
consideration of the allocation of costs between capital Expenditure incurred in maintaining the operating capability of the and operating expenditure.
network is expensed in the year 126.0 million in which it is incurred.
In addition, for a sample of capital projects, we assessed Capital projects often contain a combination of enhancement and the application of the capitalisation policy to the costs maintenance activity which are not distinct and therefore the allocation incurred by agreement to third party invoices and obtained ofcosts between capital and operating expenditure is inherently explanations and further support for any significant judgmental.
Whilst under AMP6, total expenditure or Totex is a key driver changes in capital expenditure from budget.
of regulatory performance rather than capital expenditure which was In relation to the reclassication of infrastructure asset monitored under AMP5, the accounting distinction between operating and contributions from property, plant and equipment to non capital expenditure remains and hence it is important that capital project current trade and other payables, we have reconciled in expenditure is accounted for correctly in accordance with International total the contributions received in relation to infrastructure Accounting Standards IAS.
assets to the underlying accounting records and have In addition, the comparative consolidated balance sheet has been confirmed that the revised presentation is in line with restated to reect a reclassication between property, plant and International Accounting Standards.
equipment and non current trade and other payables.
Contributions, which had been received in previous years in relation to infrastructure assets, and which had a carrying value of 294.5 million as at 31 March 2014, were identied as being deducted from the carrying value of property plant and equipment.
In order to comply with the requirements of IAS 16 and IAS18, these contributions have been reclassied from property plant and equipment to non-current trade and other payables.
Further details are set out in note 2a.
Determining the amount of the groups retirement benefit obligations 309.5 million deficit note 28 This is a key area of judgment because the process is complex and With support from the pension specialists within our requires management after taking advice from their actuarial advisers audit team, we challenged the assumptions used in the to make a number of assumptions concerning long term interest rates, calculation of the pension scheme deficit as detailed in ination, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity note 28, specically regarding the discount rate, ination of current pensioners.
rate and mortality assumptions with reference to comparable market and other third party data.
110 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Determination of current and deferred tax balances 9.7 million credit note 13 Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgments With support from the tax specialists within our audit tobe made regarding the result of negotiations with, and enquiries from, team, we considered the likely outcomes of uncertain tax taxauthorities in a number of jurisdictions.
positions and reviewed correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to assess the appropriateness of the tax The opening current and deferred tax balance has been restated by balances that have been recorded in the balance sheet.
67.8 million with a corresponding debit adjustment in opening reserves, primarily in order to correct the deferred tax position in light of the We have reviewed the underlying workings supporting reclassication of contributions received in relation to infrastructure the restated current and deferred tax balances and assets from property, plant and equipment to non-current trade and challenged the revised treatment to test that it is in other payables.
accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 82.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable Our application that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use ofmateriality materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 18 million 2015: 18 million, which is approximately 6% 2015: 6% of profit before tax, losses gains on financial instruments and exceptional items.
As in 2015, these items are excluded to focus on the groups underlying trading performance, consistent with the groups internal and external reporting.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of 750,000 2015: 750,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including groupAn overview of the wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
scope of our audit Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope on the consolidation at the parent company level and the groups two business segments being Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
Severn Trent Water Limited was subject to a full statutory audit using component materiality of 15 million and accounts for over 90% 2015: over 90% of the groups net operating assets and operating profit.
The group audit team performs the audit of the Severn Trent Water business segment without the involvement of a component audit team.
The extent of our testing on Severn Trent Services was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and the materiality of the segments global business operations, principally in the UK and the US.
The materiality of each component is lower than that of the group, with the highest materiality 9 million applied to the US component.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits to auditors of each of the significant components of the group not audited by the group audit team.
This primarily relates to the Severn Trent Services audit team in the US.
In the current year, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the Severn Trent Services component in the US.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we include the component audit partner in our team brieng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
In our opinion: Opinion on other matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with by the Companies the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 111 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or receivedand adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit accounting records have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Statement the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: otherinformation in the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for Respective the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
responsibilities Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable of directors law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard andauditor on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to Scope of the audit give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused of the financial by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups statements and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Kari Hale, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 23 May 2016
