Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 109 Emissions reporting Fair, balanced and understandable Details on performance can be found on page 58 of the Strategic The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken report.
as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for members and other stakeholders to assess Slavery and human trafficking the Groups position and performance, strategy and business model.
In 2016, the Group took the following steps to ensure slavery and human trafficking did not occur within the organisation or supply Details of the governance procedures which have been embedded chain: to support this can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
identifying and addressing risks: the Group has updated its Disclosure of information to the auditor processes for evaluating prospective suppliers and reviewing The Directors confirm that: existing suppliers to understand its suppliers self-assessment 1. so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit of slavery and human trafficking issues: information of which the auditor is unaware: and developing policy: the Group has and continues to update its 2. the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have compliance policies to include consideration of slavery and human taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any trafficking issues as applicable : and relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor training: the Group has made available training to those of its staff is aware of that information.
who deal most with its suppliers.
Development of an intranet resources page is also underway which staff will be able to access This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance to learn about modern slavery and human trafficking.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern Auditor The Financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as the Groups auditor as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to and to give the directors the authority to determine the auditors continue in business for the 12 months from the reporting date.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide General Meeting.
range of information relating to present and future conditions, including the current state of the balance sheet, future projections Annual General Meeting of profitability, cash flows and capital resources and the longer term Shawbrook Group plcs second Annual General Meeting will be strategy of the business.
The Groups capital and liquidity plans, held at Instinctif Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7NQ including stress tests, have been reviewed by the Directors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it will be able By order of the Board to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity and capital for the 12 months from the reporting date, including a range of stressed scenarios, the availability of alternative sources of capital if required Steve Pateman and appropriate management actions.
Chief Executive Officer After making due enquiries, the Directors believe that the 6 March 2017 Group has sufficient resources to continue its activities for the 12 months from the reporting date and to continue its expansion, and the Group has sufficient capital to enable it to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 110 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual & Accounts and the Group and Parent Financial statements financial report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors as at the date of this statement whose names and functions are set out on pages 66 to 68 confirm that to the best of Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent their knowledge: Company Financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with the law they are required to prepare the Group Financial statements applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the law and have elected to prepare the Group Financial statements Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken on the same basis.
as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report includes a fair review Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial of the development and performance of the business and the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair position of the Group and the undertakings included in the view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Group and Parent Company Financial statements, the directors are required to: This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and is signed on its behalf by: consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with Daniel Rushbrook IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and Company Secretary prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and 6 March 2017 the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 111 Independent auditors report to the members of Shawbrook Group plc only We considered that the challenge of meeting market expectations, Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit the regulatory and tax challenges to the BTL market and the impact 1.
Our opinion on the Financial statements is unmodified of the result of the EU referendum could all increase the audit risk We have audited the Financial statements of Shawbrook Group plc in the area of loan impairment.
We also considered the impact on for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 117 to 179. the inherent risk and our audit approach of the breach of lending In our opinion: controls in the Groups Scottish operation identied during the the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of course of 2016.
Although the risk is somewhat mitigated through the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December a lower interest rate environment and a relatively benign but 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: uncertain credit outlook we concluded that the audit risk in this area the group Financial statements have been properly prepared in has increased.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : We considered that the impact of portfolio seasoning and the the parent company Financial statements have been properly challenge of meeting market expectations on effective interest prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as rate accounting would increase the audit risk in the area of income applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act recognition.
The risk is mitigated by the limited number of material 2006: and new product types and we concluded that the audit risk in this area the Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with has remained broadly consistent.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group Financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We considered the change in the Groups operating structure, including the impact on the cash generating units identied by 2.
Overview the directors to assess the potential impairment of goodwill.
When we planned our 2016 audit we began with our knowledge of the group and the key risks from the audits we have performed in Other factors we have considered in assessing the audit risks previous years.
This included our assessment of the groups capital include the increasing project spend required in relation to and liquidity positions, the composition of its balance sheet, its significant projects, including the need to prepare for major financial control environment and the views of the Prudential Regulation reporting changes such as IFRS 9, loan portfolio acquisitions during Authority and Financial Conduct Authority.
Our assessment of key the year and the regulatory landscape of ongoing industry-wide risks continued from our initial planning throughout our interim conduct issues.
and final audits and was regularly updated through ongoing conversations with management, the Board and Audit Committee The final result of our risk consideration is shown in the table, and and reading pertinent management information.
In addition to we have shown those which have increased or decreased in risk our understanding of internal developments we also considered from the previous year.
We are of the view that there are five areas external developments and the risks they present to the groups of significant risk, but three impairment provisioning, effective business model and Financial statements.
interest rate EIR accounting and valuation of goodwill represent the greatest signicance.
High Going concern Impairment provisioning EIR Regulatory and General IT Valuation of accounting conduct risk controls goodwill Loans portfolio Fraud acquisition Intermediary accounting Management and outsourcing override of controls Hedge accounting and derivatives Taxation Financial statement disclosure Residual Financial Valuation of financial value risk Cost control process instruments capitalisation derivatives Valuation of financial Key Risk direction instruments amortised Share option cost and level 3 fair value schemes Risk of greater signicance Increased from 2015 significant financial statement audit risks Consistent with 2015 Other business and control risk Low Low Likelihood High Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Impact 112 Independent auditors report to the members of Shawbrook Group plc only continued 3.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our response In this area our audit procedures included: In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial statements Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our key controls over the capture, monitoring and reporting of loans audit, in decreasing order of signicance, were as follows: and advances to customers: Impairment provisioning Balance sheet: 2016 24.4 million: Substantively validating the year end impairment models 2015 13.5 million: Profit and Loss charge: 2016 24.3 million: for collective and individual provisioning by re-performing 2015 6.5 million calculations and agreeing a sample of data inputs to source documentation.
We also assessed whether the data used in the Refer to page 82 Report of the Audit Committee, page 138 accounting models is complete and accurate through testing a sample of policy, critical accounting estimates and judgements and financial relevant data elds and their aggregate amounts against data in disclosures.
the source systems: The risk is that impairment provisions on loans and advances to Critically assessing and challenging the assumptions used by the customers are misstated.
Loans for which there is objective evidence Group in their impairment models using our understanding of that an impairment event has occurred are assessed individually for the Group, the historical accuracy of its estimates, current and impairment.
If there is no evidence that an impairment exists on an past performance of the Groups loans and our knowledge of the individual basis, loans are assessed collectively for impairment.
industry in respect of similar loan types: Benchmarking key assumptions, methodology and overall The Groups individual provisions are subjective as a result of the provision levels ratios against the Groups peers.
We also number of judgements needed.
The Groups methodology for compared other inputs such as house price inflation to market calculating individual provisions is split between those which are information to mitigate the risk of error in collateral valuations: modelled Consumer Finance and Second charge mortgages, Considering the sensitivity of the collective and individual representing 25% of the Groups total loans and those which are provisioning models to changes in the key assumptions: individually assessed Business Finance and Commercial mortgages, Undertaking a detailed assessment of a sample of exposures for representing 75% of the Groups total loans.
individual impairment in the Business Finance and Commercial mortgage portfolios, taking a risk based approach to focus For the modelled individual provisions the key judgements are on those with the greatest potential impact on the Financial the probabilities of default PDs and loss given defaults LGDs.
Our assessment specically challenged the Groups These judgements are particularly subjective because the Group assumptions of expected future cash flows, including the has limited historical experience to support the assumptions valuation of collateral, through inquiry with credit managers and made due to the relatively unseasoned nature of its loan portfolios inspecting third party correspondence and independent valuation underwritten during a relatively benign economic period.
reports: Assessing the controls within the Group which ensure the Business Finance and Commercial loans are monitored and completeness of individual provisioning watchlists.
Examining placed on a watchlist if they are considered to exhibit evidence a sample of performing loans in the Business Finance and of impairment.
Provisioning judgements are then made for these Commercial mortgage portfolios to evaluate if any indicators loans based on the individual circumstances of each case and of impairment existed to test the completeness of individual expectations of future cash flows.
These individually assessed impairment provisions: provisions are particularly judgemental for these portfolios where Considering the work of the Second and Third lines of defence the specialised nature of collateral and exit strategy selected can in relation to control failures, improvements instituted to controls signicantly impact the timing and value of cash flows.
and the possibility of further exposure due to the controls breach identied in the Scotland office.
We also undertook an assessment The key judgements in the collective provisioning model are the of Business Finance accounts which display similar characteristics emergence period, propensity to default and loss given default.
The to those linked to the Controls breach identied in the Scotland emergence period is the most difficult judgement to estimate due office, to assess whether there are additional impacted accounts to the difficulty of obtaining historical data.
other than those identied by management.
Critically assessing the rationale for the inclusion of elements in A management overlay is applied to the modelled provisioning the management overlay as well as the value of the overlay with balances to reflect risk factors not taken into account by the models.
reference to our own knowledge of the industry: and This requires judgement in relation to the factors to be reflected as Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to well as their estimated value.
impairment about any changes in estimate occurring during the period and the sensitivity to the key assumptions.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 113 Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting Profit and Loss interest Valuation of Goodwill Balance Sheet Goodwill: 2016 and similar income: 2016 280.2 million: 2015 216.9 million 44.8 million 2015 44.8 million : Profit and Loss nil impairment charge in 2016 and 2015 Refer to page 82 Report of the Audit Committee, page 128 accounting policy, critical accounting estimates and judgements and financial Refer to page 82 Report of the Audit Committee, page 144 accounting disclosures policy and critical accounting estimates and judgements and financial disclosures.
The risk Interest and fees earned on loans are recognised using the effective interest rate method which spreads directly attributable The risk is that goodwill amounts held on the balance sheet are cash flows over the expected lives of the loans.
The Directors apply not supported by future cash flows of the underlying business.
judgement in deciding which cash flows are spread on an EIR basis and assessing the redemption proles used to spread those cash As a result of changes to the operating structure of the Group, flows.
The most critical element of judgement in this area is the the appropriate identication of each cash generating unit is a estimation of the redemption proles of the loans, informed by particularly critical element of judgment for the 2016 period end.
past customer behaviour of when loans have been paid off.
The directors have assessed there to be three CGUs at the period end, rather than the five identied in the prior period.
There is Our response In this area our audit procedures included: significant judgement in assessing the CGUs and changing them affects both the recoverable and carrying amounts used in the Inspecting a sample of new product literature to ensure that impairment testing of goodwill.
pricing structure, fees and costs are appropriately incorporated into the EIR models as required by the relevant accounting The recoverable amounts for each CGU are calculated using standards: discounted future cash flow forecasts and compared to the carrying Agreeing a sample of data inputs to source information from value for each CGU.
In calculating the recoverable amounts, the the systems.
We assessed whether the data used in the models directors make judgements over certain key inputs including is complete and accurate through testing a sample of relevant revenue growth, discount rate and long term growth rates.
data elds and their aggregate amounts against data in the source systems: 34.7 million of the total goodwill balance relates to Business Evaluating the accuracy of the models by re-performing the Finance, being the area of most significant judgement in light of calculations, testing for model inconsistencies between the the size of the balance and financial performance in the year.
Both portfolios and comparing the methodology used to the the discount rate and the forecast cash flows used in calculating the requirements of the relevant accounting standards: recoverable amounts are critical elements of judgement in this area.
Challenging the appropriateness of key assumptions used in the EIR models, including the expected lives, by comparing these to Our response In this area our audit procedures included: historical trends within the Group, the Groups forecasts and our Assessing whether the CGUs have been appropriately identied own expectations based on our knowledge of the Group and in relation to the requirements of the accounting standards.
experience of the industry in which it operates: Specically challenging the directors conclusion that the Considering the sensitivity of the model to changes in key five CGUs identied in the prior period had now merged into assumptions: three CGUs: Benchmarking the Groups expected life assumptions to peer Reviewing whether an appropriate final impairment test data and or market information for comparable lending where was performed on the five CGUs at the point of merger: available: and Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the key assumptions, including the sensitivity of the recoverable any changes in estimate occurring during the period and the amount to those assumptions: sensitivity to the key assumptions.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 114 Independent auditors report to the members of Shawbrook Group plc only continued For Business Finance specically our procedures included: 5.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Assessing the appropriateness of the Groups forecasting In our opinion: approach and the calculation of discount rates with the support of our valuation specialists: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Comparing discount rates used to externally available information been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act for other financial services institutions: 2006: and Challenging forecast cash flows and growth rates in the context of the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors historical experience as well as our knowledge of the market and Report for the financial year for which the Financial statements are wider economic environment: prepared is consistent with the Financial statements.
Considering the consistency of forecast cash flows used in the 6.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks impairment model with management forecasts and other key Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have internal documents: and nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Considering the sensitivity of the recoverable amounts to changes the Group Viability statement on page 56 concerning the principal in key assumptions.
risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope operation over the 3 years to 31 December 2019: or of our audit the disclosures in note 1 of the Financial statements concerning The materiality for the Group Financial statements as a whole was the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
set at 4.2 million 2015: 3.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of which it represents 4.8% 7.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 2015: 4.3%.
The increased percentage relative to the benchmark which we are required to report by exception primarily reflects this being the second reporting period for the Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, Group as a listed entity.
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 4.2m Whole financial 88.2 4.2 identied other information in the annual report that contains a statements materiality material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identied material inconsistencies between the 0.21m Mis-statements knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors reported to the statement that they consider that the annual report and Financial Audit Committee Pro t before tax m Materiality m statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess uncorrected identied misstatements exceeding 0.21 million the groups position and performance, business model and 2015: 0.15 million, in addition to other identied misstatements strategy: or that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group and its only material component as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of total Group Revenue, Group profit before tax, and total Group assets.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
