Financial statements Independent auditors report tothemembers of Shire plc Opinion on financial statements of Shire plc Going concern and the Directors assessment of the In our opinion the consolidated financial statements principalrisks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofShireplc and subsidiaries together the Group : ofthe Group We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the give a true and fair view of the state of Shire plc and appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting subsidiaries affairs together the Group as at December contained within the Directors statement on the longer-term 31, 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: viability of the Group contained within the Corporate Governance have been properly prepared in accordance with Report on page 70. accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and We are required to state whether we have anything material to add have been properly prepared in accordance with the or draw attention to in relation to: requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. the Directors confirmation on page 118 that they have carried The financial statements that we have audited comprise: out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future the consolidated balance sheet: performance, solvency or liquidity: the consolidated statement of income: the disclosures on pages 54 to 65 that describe those risks and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the Directors statement in the Corporate Governance Report the consolidated statement of cash flows: and about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going the related notes 1 to 31. concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law the date of approval of the financial statements: and andaccounting principles generally accepted in the United States the Directors explanation on page 75 as to how they have of America.
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they Summary of our audit approach have done so and why they consider that period to be Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The business combination with Baxalta Inc. and in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period particular the key judgements made by management of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing inthe valuation of currently marketed product attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
intangibleassets: The business combination with Dyax Corp. and in We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw particular the key judgements made by management attention to in respect of these matters.
inthe valuation of the SHP-643 asset: and Managements estimation of rebates against revenue We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern as a result of contractual and regulatory requirements basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material for certain products in the United States.
However, because not all future events or Within this report, any new risks are identified with conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee and any risks which are the same as the prior year are as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting $150million, determined as 6percent of adjusted pre-tax profit.
CouncilsEthical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we areindependent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other Scoping We identified three components, being North American Financial Operations NAFO, UK Financial Operations  in accordance with those standards.
UKFO and Baxalta which has a number of subWe confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have components which we have scoped based on the relative fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with size of the Baxalta Group.
This assessment focused our group audit scope primarily on the U. S. UK, Irish, Swiss those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of and Austrian entities.
In addition we identified certain the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
companies to perform an audit of specified account Our assessment of risks of material misstatement balances where considered significant.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below Together with the Group functions these locations arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the represent the principal operations and account for allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of 96percent of the Groups total assets and 86 percent theengagement team.
Significant Following the acquisition of Baxalta Inc. the group audit The prior year reported risk related to the NPS acquisition has changes in our scope was extended to cover the most significant entities notbeen separately reported on in the current year given the approach within this new component.
As a consequence of the accounting for the acquisition completed in 2015 and there have acquisition, our materiality was increased in the current year.
been no significant changes in 2016.
The risk related to revenue recognition reported in the prior year has also been removed on The significant risks included in our audit report reflect the acquisitions made by the Group during the year, with two the basis that it is not considered a significant risk in 2016. new reported risks.
The risk associated with gross-to-net revenue in the U. S. is consistent with that of the prior year.
Shire Annual Report 2016 119 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report tothemembers of Shire plc continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Baxalta business combination valuation of acquired CMP intangible assets The Directors determination of the purchase price allocation for the In order to assess the valuation of the acquired CMP intangible assets, as acquisition of Baxalta is included at Note 4 and the critical accounting policy part of the allocation of the purchase price, we have performed the following and estimate in relation to acquired intangible assets is set out at Note 3. specific procedures: We identified a risk that the allocation of the purchase price to currently independently assessed the design and implementation and tested marketed product CMP intangible assets acquired as part of the Baxalta operating effectiveness of the Groups relevant financial controls: business combination is not appropriate.
assessed the competence and independence of managements valuation expert, and used our own internal valuation experts to consider and In particular there is risk that management has not determined appropriate challenge the appropriateness of valuation methodologies used and the assumptions for the impact that launches of competing products may have accuracy of calculations: and onfuture revenues from existing products.
considered and challenged the Directors underlying judgements in light of existing internal evidence, market analyst expectations, publicly available We consider this to be a significant risk due to the size of the CMP intangible competitor information and external market studies.
assets balance preliminary valuation of $22.0 billion in addition to the complexity and subjectivity of judgements.
Valuation of acquired intangible assets affecting the acquisition accounting for Dyax The Directors determination of the purchase price allocation for the In order to assess the valuation of the acquired Dyax intangible assets, as acquisition of Dyax is included at Note 4 and the critical accounting policy part of the allocation of the purchase price, we have performed the following andestimate in relation to acquired intangible assets is set out at Note 3. specific procedures: We identified a risk that the allocation of the purchase price to acquired assets independently assessed the design and implementation and tested and liabilities in relation to the Dyax business combination, in particular the operating effectiveness of the Groups relevant financial controls: valuation of the SHP-643 intangible asset, is not appropriate.
assessed the competence of managements market expert and undertook a series of interviews with them to understand the scope and output of their In particular there is risk that management has not determined appropriate work: assumptions for prevalence, efficacy, probability of clinical success POS obtained the forecast models prepared by managements market expert and U. S. price rises.
including the key assumptions for POS, price rises, prevalence rate and efficacy associated with the SHP-643 asset: This has been highlighted as a significant risk due to its size SHP-643 has obtained evidence including external studies, market analyst reports and been valued at $4.1 billion and the complexity and subjectivity of judgements.
comparable product data and obtained an understanding of the primary information and opinions obtained from key opinion leaders by managements market specialist, using this information to challenge therelevant assumptions made by management: and assessed the competence and independence of managements valuation expert, and used our own internal valuation experts to consider and challenge the appropriateness of valuation methodologies used and theaccuracy of calculations.
120 Shire Annual Report 2016 Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The estimation of rebates against revenue as a result of contractual and regulatory requirements in the United States A description of the key accounting policy for sales deductions is included at We have considered the Groups processes for making judgements in this Note 2 and the critical accounting policy and estimate in relation to the level of area and performed the following procedures: rebates and other sales deductions is set out at Note 3. considered the appropriateness of the process and tested the design, The Directors are required to make certain judgements in respect of the level of implementation and operating effectiveness of controls adopted by rebates and other sales deductions that will be realised against the Groups sales.
management in determining the accounting for rebates and other sales deductions: The largest of these judgements relate to rebates for Medicaid and Managed undertook an analysis of the historical accuracy of judgements by reference Care programmes, for which the Group held accrued rebates as at December to actual rebates paid in prior periods: 31, 2016 of $1,431 million 2015: $982 million in aggregate.
The risk is confirmed rebate levels accrued during the year against subsequent primarily focused on the Neuroscience and Gastro Intestinal products.
payments: analysed and recalculated components of the year end liability based The key elements of the judgements relating to Medicaid and Managed Care oncontracted and statutory rebate rates: and rebates include: challenged the key elements of judgements that were made in the period the proportion of the inventory pipeline that will attract specific rebates: and inlight of externally verifiable data, such as pipeline levels and industry the future value of rebate per unit expected to be applicable.
We identified a risk that these judgements are not appropriate and, as a result, We also evaluated the presentation and disclosure of the transactions within rebate liabilities and sales deductions are recorded at an incorrect level.
There is a significant track record of actual rebate levels which informs our assessment of the level of risk of material misstatement.
Nevertheless due to the manual nature and extent of the accounting process in this area it forms a significant part of our audit effort and requires a notable level of resource within the audit engagement.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the significant issues considered by the Audit, Compliance and for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Risk Committee discussed on pages 76 and 77.
Our audit Group materiality $150 million 2015: $100 million procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to Basis for determining materiality Group materiality is 6 percent 2015: express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our 5percent of adjusted pre-tax profit and the change on last year reflects the increase in opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to thesize of the Group.
Pre-tax profit of $486 any of the risks described above and we do not express an opinion million 2015: $1,385 million has been on these individual matters.
adjusted by removing the impact of non-recurring items such as the $1,087 Our application of materiality million unwind of the fair value uplift We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the associated with the Baxalta inventory financial statements that makes it probable that the economic acquired and acquisition and integration decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be costs of $791 million directly associated changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the with the Baxalta acquisition.
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Rationale for the benchmark Adjusted profit before tax from continuing applied operations represents the most appropriate benchmark in light ofthe views of investors and analysts, unusual one off events, the status of the Group and its key performance indicators.
We agreed with the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $7.5 million 2015: $5.0 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Shire Annual Report 2016 121 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Independent auditors report tothemembers of Shire plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Opinion on other matters prescribed by our Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the engagementletter Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and In our opinion: assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in Based on that assessment, we identified three components, accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that beingNorth American Financial Operations NAFO, UK Financial would have been applied were the Group incorporated in the Operations UKFO and Baxalta which has a number of subUnited Kingdom: components which we have scoped based on the relative size the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has ofthe Baxalta Group.
This assessment focused our group audit been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the scope primarily on U. S. UK, Irish, Swiss and Austrian entities.
Companies Act 2006 that would have been applied were the Inaddition we identified certain companies to perform an audit Group incorporated in the United Kingdom: and ofspecified account balances where considered significant.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Theselocations represent the principal operations and together Report for the financial year for which the financial statements with the Group functions in scope account for 96 percent are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
2015:96percent of the Groups total assets and 86percent In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company 2015: 79percent of the Groups revenue.
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report forundertaking audit work to address the risks of material and the Directors Report.
Our audit work at the individual Matters on which we are required to report by exception locations was performed at component materiality levels which Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records ranged from $37.5 million to $95.0 million, which were determined Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to to you if, in our opinion: therelative scale of the business concerned.
we have not received all the information and explanations we At group level we also audited the consolidation process and require for our audit: or carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not aggregated financial information of the remaining components been received from branches not visited by us: or notsubject to full scope audit or specified procedures.
the financial statements are not in agreement with the The Group audit team directly supervises the work performed accounting records and returns.
across all of the full scope and specified procedure components, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
with comprehensive referral instructions issued to each component team, and follows a programme of planned site visits that is Corporate Governance Statement designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or other Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of senior members of the audit team spend appropriate time in each theCorporate Governance Statement relating to the companys of the full scope locations throughout the year.
In addition to this compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate the Group audit team will visit other locations not in full scope on Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
1% 14% 1% Revenue Net assets 85% 99% Full audit scope Specified audit procedures Review at group level 122 Shire Annual Report 2016 Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable report is: assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an materially inconsistent with the information in the audited assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate financial statements: or tothe Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall thecourse of performing our audit: or presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all otherwise misleading.
thefinancial and non-financial information in the annual report toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial In particular, we are required to consider whether we have statements and to identify any information that is apparently identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
theannual report is fair, balanced and understandable and Ifwe become aware of any apparent material misstatements or whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
that we communicated to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such John Adam inconsistencies or misleading statements.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor London, United Kingdom As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, February 22, 2017 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Shire Annual Report 2016 123 Other Information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
