Financial statements Independent Auditors report We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Independent auditors report to the members of Sky plc the Directors confirmation on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including Opinion on the financial statements of Sky plc those that would threaten its business model, future performance, In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial statements solvency or liquidity: of Sky plc: the disclosures on pages 28 to 31 that describe those risks and explain give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent Companys how they are being managed or mitigated: affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of their profit for the year then ended: the Directors statement on page 31 and in note 1b to the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability Companies Act 2006 and as regards the consolidated financial to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
date of approval of the financial statements: The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated and the Directors explanation on page 31 as to how they have assessed company income statements, the consolidated and company statements the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement the consolidated and company cash flow statements, the consolidated as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will and company statements of changes in equity, and the related notes be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in addition However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the as a going concern.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs Independence as issued by the IASB.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
regarding the the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained on page 31 of the Strategic Report and within note 1b to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 31.
Annual Report 2016 71 Independent Auditors report continued Our assessment of risks significant to our audit The risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Sky retails subscription packages to customers which include multiple We evaluated the Groups revenue recognition policy and managements elements and may include discounts and offers, for example TV current year assessment in respect of accounting for bundled subscription, hardware and telephony services sold for a single package transactions against relevant accounting standards and guidance.
The allocation of retail subscription revenue to each element of We tested the policys implementation in each territory by: a bundled transaction is complex and requires judgement, as described in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 86.
There is a risk that performing tests of control to confirm our understanding of the inappropriate allocations could lead to non-compliance with accounting process by which revenue is calculated by the relevant billing systems: standards and incorrect acceleration or deferral of revenue, principally performing an assessment of the different product bundles and offers for new customers who may enter a contract of one to two years made available to customers in the year and confirming the fair value duration, which may include hardware or installation at discounted of different elements of these packages to appropriate evidence of prices up front.
fair value: assessing whether revenue should be accelerated or deferred based on the relative fair value of elements delivered at different points during the contract, when compared to the revenue calculated by the relevant billing system: and where differences arose between the revenue calculated by the billing system and the revenue recognition profile calculated in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy, auditing the valuation, accuracy and completeness of those adjustments recognised to align revenue recognised with the Groups accounting policy.
Entertainment programming amortisation Determining the timing and amount of general entertainment The level of expenditure on general entertainment programming varies programming expense recognised in the period requires judgement in each territory, and our procedures focused on entertainment spend in selecting the appropriate recognition profile and ensuring that this in the UK and Italy, which are significant to the Group.
profile achieves the objective of recognising programming inventory We examined the method for expensing general entertainment expense in line with the way that it is consumed by the Group, as set programming inventory, taking into account the differing genres out in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 87. of programmes, any significant changes to viewing patterns during Entertainment programming expense involves more judgement than the year and industry benchmarks.
other types of programming due to the number of qualitative factors Our procedures included: involved in the selection and application of an appropriate expense profile, which includes: benchmarking managements recognition profile against industry practice: The time period and frequency with which the programme is expected to be utilised on the Groups linear and non-linear services: considering the consistency of recognition profiles applied year on year: Expectations of the number of viewers a programme is likely to achieve for each broadcast on the Groups linear channels: assessing the design and implementation of controls over the recognition and expensing of general entertainment programming: Potential benefits associated with utilising programming: and comparing the expense profile determined by management against The relative values associated with linear channel and non-linear rights.
that which would be indicated by viewing trends used as a proxy for There is a risk that the recognition profile selected by management for value consumed : and entertainment programming does not correctly recognise the expense assessing the impact of other qualitative factors, such as the value in line with the way that the Group consumes the inventory.
of certain types of programming to brand or channel value and the influence on the acquisition and retention of customers.
Sky plc 72 Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Capital expenditure Our procedures performed included: The Groups spending on capital projects is material, as shown by the total value of additions in notes 13 and 14.
The assessment and timing of a ssessing the design, implementation and testing the operating whether assets meet the capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 16 Property, effectiveness of controls in respect of the capitalisation of assets Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires judgement, as and the identification of potential indicators of impairment: set out in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 86.
In addition, determining whether there is any indication of impairment of the carrying performing sample tests of capital expenditure projects including an value of assets being developed or replaced also requires judgement examination of managements assessment as to whether the project in assessing performance against the investment business case.
spend met the recognition criteria set forth in IAS 16 Property, Plant As a result, there is a risk that the Groups expenditure on intangible and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, and reviewing the project and tangible non-current assets is inappropriately capitalised against status reports for the Groups most significant projects to check for relevant accounting guidance, that assets not yet in use are not indicators of impairment: and recoverable at their carrying value and that the value of existing assets For a sample of capital projects, developing an understanding of made obsolete by current year additions may be impaired.
the business case, challenging key assumptions and estimates using our business and industry understanding and experience and using external information where relevant, verifying capital project authorisation, and tracing a sample of project costs to appropriate evidence.
Last year our report included acquisition accounting as a key audit risk, which has not been included in our report this year as no material acquisitions have been completed during the year.
The description of the risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 44.
We reported to the Audit Committee that our audit work on these risks was concluded satisfactorily.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Annual Report 2016 73 Independent Auditors report continued Our application of materiality Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial In our opinion: statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and We use materiality in both planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined audit materiality the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the Group to be 50 million 2015: 50 million.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We used profit before tax for our assessment of materiality, after adjusting for the impact of one-off items such as advisory fees.
Materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception represents 7% 2015: 6% of this measure.
The Groups adjusted profit Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records before tax measure further excludes the impact of amortisation of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, acquired intangible assets, restructuring and efficiency costs, integration in our opinion: costs, derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and the tax effect we have not received all the information and explanations we require of these adjusting items see note 10 for managements definition and for our audit: or reconciliation to adjusted profit for further details.
Audit materiality of 50 million represents approximately 5% 2015: 5% of the Groups adjusted adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, profit, 1% 2015: 2% of equity and 7% 2015: 3% of statutory profit or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches before taxation.
not visited by us: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it all the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the audit differences in excess of 2.5 million 2015: 2.5 million, as well as accounting records and returns.
differences below that threshold that in our view, warranted reporting We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We also report to the Audit Committee any significant disclosure matters that we identify when assessing the Directors remuneration overall presentation of the financial statements.
We confirmed to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our the Audit Committee that we had no significant disclosure matters opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been or misstatements to report.
made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have An overview of the scope of our audit nothing to report arising from these matters.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks Corporate Governance Statement of material misstatement at the Group level.
Our audit scope is consistent Under Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate with the prior year and focused on the Groups UK and Ireland, German and Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain Austrian, and Italian operations, all of which were subject to a full scope provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to audit for the year ended 30 June 2016 by our component audit teams.
report arising from our review.
As a result all of the Groups assets, revenue and profit before tax are Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report subject to an audit either scoped by our component audit teams to their Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, respective component materiality or by the Group audit team.
The Group we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the audit team directed, supervised and reviewed the work of the component Annual Report is: auditors for Germany and Austria and for Italy, which involved issuing detailed instructions, holding regular discussions with component audit materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial teams, making multiple visits to each location throughout the year, statements: or performing detailed file reviews and attending local audit meetings apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, with management.
Audit work performed for the Groups UK and Ireland our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our operations was performed by the Group audit team.
Audit work in audit: or UK and Ireland, Germany and Austria, and Italy was performed to at levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality and otherwise misleading.
ranged from 25 million to 47.5 million, depending on the components In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any contribution to the Groups profit before tax.
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Sky plc 74 Financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Franek FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 27 July 2016 Annual Report 2016 75
