OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SOPHOS GROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Sophos Group plc for the year-ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 75 to 122.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: Revenue $478.2m Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 46 to 51 and note 5 on page 91 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Risk: As the Group expands and product portfolios evolve, there can be considerable risk associated with recognising revenue on contracts containing multiple elements.
A significant audit risk has been recognised with regards to such multiple element arrangements as judgement is required in allocating the consideration receivable to each element of the arrangement.
This requires the fair value for each separable element of the arrangement to be estimated.
In estimating the relative fair values of each element, management make reference to list prices of individual elements and discounts given on the total contract.
This judgement could materially affect the timing and quantum of revenue and profit recognised in each period.
Our Response: Our procedures included evaluating the operating effectiveness of revenue allocation controls, including IT system controls and assessing the appropriateness of the Groups principles in determining the relative fair value of each separable element of the arrangement against applicable accounting standards.
We selected a sample of Group billings from throughout the year and recalculated the relative fair values of each element to assess if the determination of relative fair values of each separable element was in in line with Group Policy.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding the determination of fair values of multiple element arrangements.
Carrying Value of Intangible Assets and Goodwill $756.6m Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 46 to 51 and note 17 on pages 98 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Risk: The Group carries significant goodwill and intangible assets, resulting from business acquisitions across several geographic locations.
There is a risk that the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is not supported by the performance of the Group in geographies where global and local economic conditions have negatively affected profitability, or where there are poor trading conditions.
Management tests the Groups goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually, and definite life intangible assets whenever there is an indication of an impairment.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows which forms the basis of the recoverability assessment and the subjectivity of key assumptions in impairment models, this is one of the key judgmental areas on which our audit is focused.
72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED Our Response: Our audit procedures included evaluating through examination of trading performance, consideration of economic and market data, and queries of management, whether indicators of impairment such as significant changes in business environment have been identified and assessing whether these have been appropriately evaluated in the Groups impairment evaluation process and models.
We assessed the rigour of the Groups budget and discounted cash flow forecast impairment models used to support the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
We challenged the assumptions for key inputs used by management in their forecasts such as projected market growth, future capital expenditure levels, revenue growth rates, inflation, and cost projections, and compared them to externally derived data where relevant, as well as our expectations based on our knowledge and experience of the Group.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasts by comparing actual to budgeted results.
We applied specialist impairment tools to perform a sensitivity analysis over key assumptions and discount rates used to assess the impact on recoverability of the assets.
We compared the results of the discounted cash flows against the Groups market capitalisation to determine if there were any significant differences that required further examination We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivities and key risks inherent in those calculations and if they have met the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
Classification of Exceptional Expenses $41.9m and Presentation of Non-GAAP Measures Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 46 to 51 and note 7 on page 91 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Risk: The Group presents alternative income statement measures to operating loss for the period within the consolidated income statement and throughout the Annual Report.
The Directors believe that the separate identification of exceptional items and the presentation of the following Non-GAAP measures of Billings $534.9m, Cash EBITDA $120.9m, and Unlevered Free Cash Flow $46.4m, provides clear and useful information on the Groups underlying trading performance.
However, when improperly used and presented, these kind of measures might prevent the Annual Report from being fair, balanced and understandable by focusing on only part of the performance.
The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustments requires judgement on its nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides a better understanding of the Groups underlying trading performance.
Therefore, this is one of the key judgement areas on which our audit is concentrated.
Exceptional items in the current year comprised of Initial Public Offering Costs $17.8m, acquisition related expenses $1.7m, restructuring and integration costs $2.6m and litigation costs $19.8m.
Our Response: Our audit procedures included assessing and challenging the judgements made by Directors of the Group regarding their determination of exceptional items and other adjustments in the presentation of Non-GAAP measures.
We evaluated the presentation and completeness of material or unusual transactions for appropriate classification within the financial statements by assessing whether these items fulfil the criteria to require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements.
We also assessed whether, in judging what to include in exceptional items, the Directors took appropriate regard to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the reporting of exceptional items.
We then assessed the application of these principles by assessing whether the approach taken to identify exceptional items was consistent between gains and losses: assessing whether the same category of material items are treated consistently each year: assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional items are explained: by agreeing amounts incurred in the year to underlying documentation and supporting information: and by using our knowledge of the Groups transactions throughout the audit to consider the completeness of exceptional items.
We assessed whether the separate disclosure and related commentary of exceptional items and alternative Non-GAAP measures of Billings, Cash EBITDA and Unlevered Cash Flow throughout the Annual Report and Accounts placed disproportionate emphasis on those component of performance: whether the alternative measures provided meaningful measures of trading performance: whether adjusted results and alternate measures were adequately reconciled to IFRS numbers with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: and whether the underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $4.78m 2015: $6.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, of which it represents 1% 2015: 1.5%.
We consider revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than Group Loss before tax.
We note as indicated above, that with the increased risks associated as a listed entity, materiality has decreased year on year.
We reported to the Audit Committee all corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $0.235m 2015: $0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 28 2015: 25 reporting components, we subjected 10 2015: 10 to audits for group reporting purposes and 2 2015: 2 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: Group Revenue Group Billings 1% 1% 99% 99% Full Audit Scope Full Audit Scope Analysis Aggregated at Group level Analysis Aggregated at Group level Group Loss before Tax Group Total Assets 4% 11% 6% 1% 90% 88% Full Audit Scope Full Audit Scope Specified Risk-focused Audit Procedures Specified Risk-focused Audit Procedures Analysis Aggregated at Group level Analysis Aggregated at Group level The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $2.75m to $3.9m 2015: $3m to $4.2m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 6 of the 12 components 2015: 6 of the 12 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group team.
The Group team visited 2 2015: 1 component locations in Germany and India 2015: Germany.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability Statement on page 69, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the 3 years to 31 March 2019: or the disclosures in note 3.2 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on page 69, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 44 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 70, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 25 May 2016
