Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofSpectris plc only of Spectris plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit and fair value less costs to dispose.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements are calculated based on managements view of the future is unmodified business prospects, forecast trading performance and the We have audited the Financial Statements of Spectris plc appropriate discount rates to be applied.
for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the The key sources of estimation uncertainty in determining Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement the recoverable amount of the Omega Engineering and of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of ESG Solutions CGUs are in respect of the forecast cash Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Financial flows, the long-term growth rates applied and use of Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, appropriate discount rates.
the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Difficult trading conditions in North America, the primary Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes market for Omega Engineering coupled with operational on pages 99 to 170.
In our opinion: challenges: and a prolonged period of low oil and gas prices, a key driver of the performance of ESG Solutions: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the have had an adverse effect on these two CGUs state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs performance.
This, together with the inherent uncertainties as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for associated with forecasting and discounting future cash the year then ended: flows means that the valuation of goodwill and intangible the Group Financial Statements have been properly assets is a key area of judgement that our audit prepared in accordance with International Financial concentrated on.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union In addition, the Omega Engineering goodwill as at IFRS as adopted by the EU : 31 December 2016 has been determined by management the Parent Company Financial Statements have been to be sensitive to reasonable possible changes in the properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting assumptions used, which could result in the calculated Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure recoverable amount being lower than the carrying value Framework: and of the CGU.
Additional sensitivity disclosures have been the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance included in the Group Financial Statements in respect with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, of Omega Engineering.
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We evaluated the process management undertook to In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial prepare the cash flow forecasts in its impairment model Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the and compared them against the latest Board approved greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit plans and management approved forecasts.
significance, were as follows: We evaluated the historical accuracy of the above plans and forecasts, by comparing the forecasts used in the prior Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, in particular the year model to the actual performance of the business in balances relating to Omega Engineering and ESG Solutions the current year.
899.5 million 2015: 786.6 million Risk vs 2015: We critically assessed the appropriateness of managements Refer to page 64 Audit and Risk Committee Report, key assumptions being forecast cash flows, long-term pages 105-106 accounting policy, page 105 critical growth rates and discount rates, specifically focusing on accounting judgements and sources of estimation Omega Engineering and ESG Solutions CGUs, based upon uncertainty and pages 125-128 financial disclosures.
our own assessments and a benchmarking against industry The risk: and economic forecasts and peer group comparators.
For ESG Solutions, we also considered metrics such as The Group has goodwill of 654.3 million and intangible future market oil prices.
assets of 245.2 million as at 31 December 2016.
We challenged management on the appropriateness of Management has allocated the above assets to 14 its sensitivity calculations by applying our own sensitivity individual cash-generating units CGUs which operate analysis to the key assumptions to evaluate the extent to across a broad range of markets and geographies.
Goodwill which reasonably possible adverse changes would, either must be tested for impairment on at least an annual basis.
individually or in aggregate, require an impairment of Pre-tax impairment charges of 94.4 million and either the goodwill or intangible assets.
18.9 million were recorded during the year against We identified that the goodwill acquired with Omega the carrying amount of goodwill in relation to Omega Engineering was most sensitive to changes in key Engineering and ESG Solutions respectively.
Management has described the impairment a pre-tax impairment charge of 1.0 million was recorded charges recorded and these sensitivities in the Goodwill during the year against the carrying amount of other and other intangible assets Note 11 to the Group Financial intangible assets in relation to ESG Solutions.
We considered the adequacy of the Groups The assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and disclosures in this regard.
intangible assets is determined based on the recoverable amount of the CGU, being the higher of its value-in-use 95 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofSpectris plc only continued Accounting for acquisitions, in particular Millbrook Group Our substantive work over contingent consideration 174.2 million 2015: 44.8 million Risk vs 2015: focused on critically challenging the forecast outcome Refer to pages 64 Audit and Risk Committee Report, of key non-financial metrics and the performance of the page 105 accounting policy, page 105 critical accounting acquired business which is the basis for the estimate of judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty and the contingent consideration liability.
The key assumptions pages 144-147 financial disclosures.
underlying the sales forecasts were compared with managements planned development of the businesses The risk: and also the historical trading performance of the acquired businesses and results since the acquisition date.
During the year, the Group acquired six businesses including Millbrook Group for a total consideration of We also considered the adequacy of the Groups 174.2 million.
These acquisitions gave rise to goodwill disclosures see Notes 24 and 26 with respect to the acquisitions and contingent consideration.
and intangible assets of 81.5 million and 45.1 million respectively.
Valuation of inventory 187.8 million 2015: 182.5 million There is significant judgement and estimation involved in Risk vs 2015: determining the fair value of the identifiable assets and Refer to page 64 Audit and Risk Committee Report, liabilities acquired given the specialised nature of the page 106 accounting policy, page 105 critical accounting acquired businesses and associated technological, judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty and customer and marketing related intangible assets.
The acquisition of Millbrook Group in the year for cash consideration of 125.7 million involved the acquisition The risk: of a number of tangible assets including a purpose-built The Group has a provision against gross inventory of test facility for cars and heavy duty vehicles and other 65.9 million as at 31 December 2016.
Management has specialised test and validation equipment: the valuation applied judgement to assess the level of provisions required and useful economic life of these specific assets in total to write down obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory 54.3 million required significant judgement as there are items to their net realisable value.
no readily available market values for these assets.
Each operating company in the Group is required to apply The liability for contingent consideration arrangements a methodology to calculate an inventory provision that is in respect to past acquisitions was 16.2 million at appropriate to the specific business facts and circumstances 31 December 2016.
Payments to be made under these which requires the application of judgement and estimates.
arrangements are contingent on the achievement The level of judgement involved in determining whether of future sales targets and the outcome of key nona provision should be recognised and how it should be financial metrics.
Given the inherent uncertainty regarding measured, coupled with the fact that provision movements achievement of these targets, significant judgement is impact earnings, results in inventory provisions being required in measuring the fair value of the contingent one of the key judgemental areas that our audit consideration obligation at the acquisition date and in concentrated on.
re-measuring to its fair value at each reporting date.
Our response: Our response: Our audit procedures included considering the Our audit procedures included testing the accuracy appropriateness of the Groups methodologies in the of the input data used in the valuation models and context of our understanding of the individual businesses critically challenging the key valuation assumptions and in the Group with reference to the ageing and nature of methodologies used by management as the basis to inventory, past usage, forecast future usage, economic identify the assets and liabilities acquired and determine conditions and new product launches.
We compared the their fair value.
This included comparison against industry methodologies and assumptions used in calculating the norms, and consideration of the reasonableness of inventory provision to those used in prior years: as part of assumptions underlying the identification of separately this we considered whether we would expect a change to identifiable intangible assets and associated revenue the methodologies and assumptions used.
We recalculated growth rates used in the forecasts.
Additionally, we on a sample basis provisions recorded by the Group and considered the appropriateness of the useful economic compared the accuracy of the usage data to underlying lives together with considering what is represented by documentation to assess the accuracy of the data used in residual goodwill.
We also considered the historical accuracy In respect of the tangible fixed assets acquired as part of provisions made by the Group by examining the reversal of Millbrook Group we used our own valuation specialists of previously recorded provisions.
to assess the work performed and critically challenge the valuations and useful economic life prepared by third party We continue to perform procedures over all working capital valuation experts engaged by management.
provisions, including provisions for doubtful trade receivable In respect of contingent consideration we inspected balances.
However, we have not assessed this as one of the the terms of the acquisition contracts to determine risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, whether the accounting treatment of performanceit is not separately identified in our report this year.
This is related consideration arrangements is appropriate based due to the collections experience and degree of judgement on the criteria of the relevant accounting standards.
involved, as management consistently applied its credit risk 96 96 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 management policy, which requires all balances overdue over the identified risks and the Groups results.
In addition, for above 120 days to be provided for in full.
specified risk-focused audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team over other reporting components as Provision for uncertain tax exposures 10.9 million part of the audit for Group reporting purposes: these other 2015: 9.9 million Risk vs 2015: reporting components, typically smaller in size, were selected Refer to page 64 Audit and Risk Committee Report, at short notice to give an element of unpredictability in our page 107 accounting policy, page 105 critical accounting overall scope of work.
judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty and pages 121-123 financial disclosures.
In aggregate our audit procedures covered 75% 2015: 68% of total Group revenue: 87% 2015: 82% of Group profit The risk: before tax: and 74% 2015: 69% of total Group assets.
Periodic challenge of transfer pricing and financing The remaining 25% 2015: 32% of total Group revenue, arrangements, in particular, by local tax authorities in 13% 2015: 18% of Group profit before tax and 26% the normal course of business may result in tax exposures 2015: 31% of total Group assets is represented by reporting and potential interest and penalties.
components none of which individually represent more than Management apply judgement to the recognition and 3% 2015: 3% of these measures.
For the remaining measurement of provisions for tax exposures relating to components, we performed analysis at the Group level to open tax years.
The group operates in multiple jurisdictions.
re-examine our assessment that there were no significant Given the complexities of cross-border transactions risks of material misstatement within them.
including transfer pricing arrangements and other national tax laws and regulations and the time taken for tax matters The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to to be agreed with tax authorities, this is one of our areas of the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant focus.
Movements in tax provisions also impact earnings.
risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
Where the amount of tax is uncertain, the Group The Group audit team set or approved the component establishes provisions based on managements judgement materiality levels, which ranged from 0.1 million to and estimate of the probable amount of the liability.
2.3 million 2015: 0.1 million to 2.2 million, having As at 31 December 2016 the group had current taxes regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group payable of 36.8 million.
across the components as well as considering the risk Our response: when aggregating misstatements that may exceed group materiality.
Our principal audit procedures included the use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the The Group audit team performed the work on valuation of Groups tax positions and its latest correspondence with goodwill and intangible assets, accounting for acquisitions the relevant tax authorities.
We analysed and challenged and provision for uncertain tax exposures.
The Group audit the assumptions used by management to determine tax team performed the audit work and were physically present provisions using our knowledge and experiences of the at two out of five reporting components in scope in the USA, application of the international and local legislation by the Groups single largest geographical market.
The Group the relevant authorities and courts.
audit team also physically visited key reporting components in We also considered the adequacy of the Groups the United Kingdom and the USA.
This included a member of disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax exposures.
the Group team performing an extended visit to the Omega Engineering component team in the USA, reviewing the audit 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview procedures and documentation.
of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole In addition to these visits, telephone and or online meetings was set at 7.4 million 2015: 7.0 million, determined with were held with component auditors.
The findings reported reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, before to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with the impairment charge relating to Omega Engineering and component auditors as necessary, and any further work ESG, of which it represents 5% 2015: 5%.
required by the Group audit team was performed by the component auditor.
We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.4 million 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by 2015: 0.4 million, in addition to other identified misstatements the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In our opinion: Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be at key reporting components in the following countries: audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Australia, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Korea, the Companies Act 2006: and Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands and the United the information given in the Strategic Report and the Kingdom.
Specific risk-focused audit procedures were Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with performed at reporting components in Singapore, the the Financial Statements.
United Kingdom and the USA: these components were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage 97 97 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofSpectris plc only continued Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: course of the audit of the Financial Statements and from the Directors statement, in relation to going concern and reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: longer-term viability, set out on page 93 and page 40 we have not identified material misstatements in those respectively: and reports: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in 53-94 relating to the Companys compliance with the 11 accordance with the Companies Act 2006. provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks We have nothing to report in respect of the above Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, responsibilities.
we have nothing material to add or draw attention to Scope of report and responsibilities in relation to: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the Directors viability statement on page 40, concerning set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the principal risks, their management, and, based on of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Groups continuing in operation over the three years to Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website 31 December 2019: or at www.
This report is made solely the disclosures in Note 1 of the Financial Statements concerning to the Companys members as a body and subject to important the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
We have nothing to report in respect of the are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be matters on which we are required to report read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the by exception work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor have identified other information in the Annual Report that for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge Chartered Accountants or the Financial Statements, a material misstatement of fact, 15 Canada Square or that is otherwise misleading.
London, E14 5GL 14 February 2017 In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and Risk Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
