INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To members of Sports Direct International plc OUR OPINION ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's affairs as at 24 April 2016 and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Financial Statements of Sports Direct International plc for the period and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED Sports Direct International plc's group financial statements for the period ended 24 April 2016 comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overall Group materiality: 13.3 million which represents 3.5% of the Group's underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA : We performed full scope procedures at the four main UK trading companies in the Sports Retail division, the largest UK trading company in the Brands division, the parent company of the Group and the overseas component in Austria.
We performed targeted procedures over the Premium Lifestyle division, other entities within the Brands division, two overseas components in the United States of America, one in Belgium and one in Ireland: and 64 Key audit risks were identified as revenue recognition, related party disclosures, accounting for the acquisition of Heatons, carrying value of inventory and accounting for foreign currency forward contracts.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect on our audit.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised in accordance with the Group's accounting policy and International Accounting Standard IAS 18: Revenue.
The majority of group revenue is recorded through Electronic Point of Sale EPOS transactions.
Key to the appropriate recognition of this revenue is the capture of the EPOS data and the Group operates a control to ensure the completeness and accuracy of this data as it is transferred into the accounting system.
Other material sources of revenue are from internet sales, wholesale sales and from licencing agreements for brands owned by the Group.
The revenue recorded by the Group is one of the key determinants of Group underlying EBITDA, which is the primary financial KPI for the Group.
Therefore we identified revenue recognition as a significant risk.
This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Determining whether revenue is recorded in the accounting system consistent with the accounting policy and considering the appropriateness of that policy: Checking the accounting entries for retail transactions and identifying entries not derived from EPOS transactions for further investigation: Testing that licencing and wholesale sales are externally generated by confirming to underlying arrangements licencing, proof of delivery wholesale and subsequent cash receipts: Testing the controls over the completeness and accuracy of the EPOS data from tills through to head office: Testing a sample of sales transactions in stores to till reports and cash banked: Testing the reconciliation of internet sales receipts in total to cash received: and Analytically reviewing sales trends at an individual store level and by product type to identify trends and variances that would require further substantive testing.
The Group's accounting policy on revenue recognition is shown in note 1 and segmental analysis of sales are included in note 4.
The Audit Committee identified revenue recognition as a significant issue in its report on page 50, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES The objective of IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures is to ensure the financial statements draw attention to the possibility that the financial position and financial performance of the Group may have been affected by the existence of related party transactions.
We have identified related party disclosures as a significant risk for the current period audit given that this has the potential to impact assessments of the Group's operations by users of the financial statements.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Updating our knowledge of related party relationships through enquiries of management, review of board meeting minutes and searches of company information databases: Performing searches for related party transactions on the group's accounting records using data interrogation software and comparing to those identified by the group: Obtaining supporting documentation for related party transactions: and Reviewing disclosures of related party transactions in the financial statements to assess their completeness and accuracy.
The group's related party disclosures are included in note 34.
The Audit Committee identified related party disclosures as an issue in its report on page 52, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
ACCOUNTING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF HEATONS On 13 November 2015 the group acquired, Warrnambool, owner of the Heatons Irish department store chain, which had previously been an associated entity of the group.
This acquisition, accounted for under IFRS 3: Business Combinations, was effected through the purchase of shares to achieve a controlling interest and an option to acquire the remaining shares in the business which was exercised during the period.
We have identified accounting for the acquisition of Heatons as a significant risk for the current period due to the level of judgement applied in determining the acquisition date fair values of the assets and liabilities assumed, and of the existing investment, which is derecognised.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Obtaining the agreements relating to the transaction and reviewing the acquisition accounting treatment adopted by management: 65 Obtaining supporting evidence for the fair values applied by management to the existing investment at the point of derecognition, the assets and liabilities acquired, specifically property valuations, inventory carrying values, completeness of property related provisions and fair values of financial instruments and the resulting recognition of any intangibles and goodwill: and Challenging the assumptions applied by management in forming their assessments of fair values, for example through review of external property market data and review of forecast store performance.
The Group's accounting policy on acquisitions is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 29.
The Audit Committee identified acquisitions as a significant issue in its report on page 52, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORIES The carrying value of inventories is stated net of provisions for obsolete or slow moving inventory.
Provisions are made against specifically identified inventory lines and for the expected shrinkage and spoilage of inventory.
We have identified the carrying value of inventories as a risk because judgement is applied by management in assessing the amount of provision required to record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value and because of the complexity of the provision calculation.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Testing the models used for mathematical accuracy by re-performing the calculations using the inventory records: Considering the appropriateness and consistency of the underlying assumptions within the model: Challenging management's assessment of the assumptions applied, and reviewing the reports management use to verify the ongoing appropriateness of provision levels: and Testing the selling price of inventory sold post period end against its carrying value.
The Group's accounting policy on inventories is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 18.
The Audit Committee identified the carrying value of inventories as an issue in its report on page 52, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To members of Sports Direct International plc ACCOUNTING FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS The group has a number of forward currency contracts that are classified as derivative financial instruments and are accounted for under IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
We have identified accounting for forward currency contracts as a risk for the current period audit due to the quantum of forward contracts and associated option arrangements entered into in the period, the potential impact of the fair value movements of these instruments on the income statement and statement of other comprehensive income, and the material asset and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
In addition the long term nature of these instruments could have a material impact on the future results of the Group, especially given the results of the recent EU referendum.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: obtaining the documentation of hedging strategy and risk management objectives: obtaining details of foreign exchange contracts from banking institutions and agreeing those instruments held to management's hedge effectiveness assessment: our own valuation specialists review of the banks valuations for a sample of contracts: testing the calculations prepared by management to confirm the hedging arrangements remained effective in accordance with the requirement of IAS 39: and verifying the prospective and retrospective tests to ensure that the hedge effectiveness requirements were met at inception and continued to be met throughout the period and at the reporting date.
The Group's accounting policy on forward currency contracts is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 27 and in the strategic report.
The Audit Committee identified the accounting for forward currency contracts as an issue in its report on page 52, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work.
66 We determined materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements as a whole to be 13.3m, which is 3.5% of underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because this is the measure against which the financial performance of the Group is measured both internally and externally.
Materiality for the current period is equivalent to the level that we determined for the period ended 26 April 2015, which reflects the relatively small change in underlying EBITDA.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75% of financial statement materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors' remuneration and related party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements to the audit committee to be 665,000.
In addition we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council's website at www.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the 'Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit' section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those Ethical Standards.
Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the group's business and is risk based, and in particular included: An interim visit to the Group's head office was conducted close to the period end to complete advance substantive audit procedures and to evaluate the group's internal controls environment including its IT systems: Evaluation by the Group audit team of identified components to assess the significance of that component and to determine the planned audit response based on a measure of materiality considering each as a percentage of total Group assets, liabilities, revenues and underlying EBITDA, to assess the significance of the component and the planned audit response: For those components that were evaluated as significant, either a full-scope or targeted approach was taken based on their relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of the audit risk.
For significant components requiring a full-scope approach we evaluated and in certain areas tested controls over the financial reporting systems identified as part of our risk assessment and addressed critical accounting matters.
We sought, in certain areas with high transactional volumes, being testing over UK store inventory existence and testing of the completeness of EPOS sales in stores, to rely on the effectiveness of the Group's internal controls in order to reduce substantive testing.
We then undertook substantive testing on significant transactions and material account balances: In order to address the audit risks described above and identified during our planning procedures, we performed a full-scope audit of the financial statements of the parent company, Sports Direct International plc, the four main UK retail trading subsidiaries, the main Brands trading company and the main trading entities in Austria.
The operations that were subject to full-scope audit procedures made up 61% of consolidated revenues and 87% of underlying EBITDA: Targeted procedures were performed to address the significant risks described above on the Premium Lifestyle division, and Brands division subsidiaries in the UK, two trading subsidiaries in the United States of America, two subsidiaries in Belgium and the acquired Heatons business in Ireland: The operations that were subject to targeted audit procedures made up 28% of consolidated revenues and 8% of underlying EBITDA: Where the work was performed by component auditors we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Detailed audit instructions were issued to the component auditors where a fullscope or targeted audit approach had been identified.
The instructions detailed the significant risks to be addressed through the audit procedures and indicated the information we required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
We were involved in the planning for overseas components and performed site-visits to client locations in Austria, Ireland and Belgium, which included a review of the work performed by the component auditors.
Where targeted components were not physically visited a review of working papers was conducted remotely: The remaining operations of the Group were subjected to analytical procedures over the balance sheets and income statements of the related entities with a focus on the applicable risks identified above and the significance to the Group's balances: and The table below demonstrates the coverage of our audit procedures: REVENUE UNDERLYING EBITDA Full Scope targeted Analytical 67 OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified in our opinion: The information given in the Strategic Report and Directors' Report for the financial period for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
and The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the group financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION: Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
UNDER THE LISTING RULES, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REVIEW: The directors' statement in relation to going concern and longer-term viability, set out on pages 46 and 41 respectively: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company's compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
UNDER THE ISAS UK AND IRELAND, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION, INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT IS: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Otherwise misleading.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To members of Sports Direct International plc IN PARTICULAR, WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF: We have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors' statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable: or The Annual Report does not appropriately disclose those matters that were communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the above matters.
We also confirm that we do not have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The directors' confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The directors' statement in the financial statements about whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group's ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and The directors' explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT WHAT THE DIRECTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
WHAT WE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
68 Philip Westerman Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 7 July 2016
