Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Opinion on Financial Statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Accounting Policies: and the related Notes 1 to 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 1 to 10 for the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Revenue recognition Inventory obsolescence Defined benefit pension liability valuation Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.8m 2015: 7.0m, which is 5% 2015: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 21 2015: 24 components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 90% 2015: 85% of the Groups total assets, 69% 2015: 73% of the Groups revenue and 71% 2015: 75% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes in Last year our Report included a goodwill impairment risk in respect of key assumptions and assertions used by our approach management to support their assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
Whilst still an area of audit focus, this risk is not included in our Report this year.
There is sufficient headroom in managements impairment calculations to reduce the sensitivity of key assumptions and therefore the risk of impairment is not considered to be a key risk for the Group Financial Statements.
114 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement regarding the appropriateness of the We confirm that we have going concern basis of accounting contained within Regulatory Disclosures section of the Governance Report to nothing material to add the Financial Statements and the Directors Statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within or draw attention to in Regulatory Disclosures section of the Governance Report on pages 108 to 110. respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We agreed with the Directors adoption of the Directors confirmation on page 109 to 111 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal the going concern basis risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency of accounting and we or liquidity: did not identify any such the disclosures on pages 28 to 31 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed material uncertainties.
or mitigated: However, because not all future events the Directors statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate or conditions can be to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material predicted, this statement uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of is not a guarantee as approval of the Financial Statements: and to the Groups ability the Directors explanation on page 109 to 110 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over to continue as a going what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as concern.
to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that We confirm that we we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those are independent of the standards.
Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited nonaudit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Revenue recognition Risk description There is significant volume of trade in the final quarter of the year in certain components.
The risk in revenue recognition focuses on the recognition of revenue in reference to contracted shipping terms and the transfer of ownership for product despatch and delivery spanning the year end.
There is also a focus on any significant new contracts to determine whether any specific alternative revenue recognition policies are required.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups revenue recognition policy and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
How the scope of our We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the design and implementation of the controls relating to audit responded to the the revenue cycle.
At significant components, we map the end-to-end controls and processes in place.
risk We reviewed the product despatch cycle and revenue recognition profile across the year-end period and sampled a selection of items confirming the date of transfer of ownership was in line with the revenue recognition date in accordance with the terms of trade with customers.
We focused our procedures on those components with a significant volume of trade in the final quarter.
We reviewed a sample of material new contracts to determine the appropriateness of the revenue recognition.
Key observations From the work performed above we are satisfied revenue recognition for trade in the month of December and significant new contracts is appropriate.
114 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 115 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Inventory obsolescence Risk description Inventory of 112.5m at 31st December 2016 31st December 2015: 92.5m is a material balance for the Group.
There is risk surrounding the obsolescence of inventory in niche markets and industries where local demand fluctuates over periods.
There are judgements required in determining inventory provisions as they require assessment based on past and future product usage and whether the provision is adequate to cover any obsolescence.
The risk has been focused, for those components with the most significant inventory balances, on the accuracy of the calculation, the accuracy and appropriateness of the policy rates and the appropriateness of any manual adjustments.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups inventory policy, Note 16 for the financial disclosure and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
How the scope of our We compared the methodology applied in calculating the inventory obsolescence provisions to the Groups policy and audit responded to we challenged managements judgement of the adequacy of the policy by reviewing the level of provision held across the risk the Group.
We tested a sample of provision calculations by recalculating the provision, and verified the accuracy of usage data in the calculation to underlying documentation.
We investigated manual override to the mechanical application of the Group inventory obsolescence provisioning policy and, where applicable, obtained evidence such as the order book or post year-end orders or sales to support any significant adjustments.
We also considered the historical accuracy of managements provisioning for inventory through a retrospective review of the level of provision recorded in prior years compared to the actual levels of stock written off.
We performed additional analytical procedures over the component with the highest inventory balance.
Key observations From the work performed above we concur that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation Risk description At 31st December 2016 the retirement benefit liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position was 520.3m 2015: 419.6m.
There is a risk relating to the judgements made by management in valuing the defined benefit pension liabilities including the use of key model input assumptions specifically the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation level.
These variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the retirement benefit liability.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups policy on defined benefit plans, Note 24 for the financial disclosure including the key assumptions used in the defined benefit pension plan valuation and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
How the scope of our We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions applied in determining the pension obligations for audit responded to the five main schemes, and determined whether the key assumptions are reasonable.
Testing covered 97% of defined the risk benefit pension liabilities.
Our assessment included reviewing available yield curves and inflation and mortality data to recalculate a reasonable benchmark for the key assumptions.
For the UK schemes, we challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in key assumptions and quantify the impact of illustrative benchmark rates that could be used in their calculation.
Additionally we benchmarked the key assumptions against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used.
Key observations From the work performed above we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities are appropriate.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 7.8m 2015: 7.0m.
Basis for determining Less than 5% of statutory pre-tax profit for both 2016 and 2015. materiality Rationale for the Statutory profit before tax was used as the benchmark for determining materiality as this is considered to be a key benchmark applied benchmark used by investors.
116 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Group materiality 7.8m PBT 171m Component materiality range profit before tax PBT 2.7m to 3.9m Group materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold Component materiality 0.4m Audit Committee reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 390,000 2015: 139,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We revised the level at which we report to the Audit Committee in line with market practice.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 21 2015: 24 components.
20 2015: 20 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining component 2015: 4 components was subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 90% 2015: 88% of the Groups total assets, 69% 2015: 74% of the Groups revenue and 71% 2015: 75% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 2.7m to 3.9m 2015: 2.4m to 3.5m.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the current year and prior year we visited the UK, USA, China and Korean components.
In the current year we visited Italy and France and in the prior year we visited Germany, Brazil and Argentina.
As part of these visits meetings were held with both component management and the component audit team.
1% 10% 31% 29% profit before Revenue Total assets tax 68% 70% 89% 1% 1% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope specified audit specified audit specified audit procedures procedures procedures Review at Review at Review at Group level Group level Group level 116 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 117 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors report arising from remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement these matters.
with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the report arising from our Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, have not identified any information in the Annual Report is: such inconsistencies or misleading materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or statements.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 8th March 2017 118 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016
