Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSE plc for the year ended 31 March 2016 set out on pages 120 to 204.
In our opinion: - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: - the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : - the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and - the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview A summary of our approach Audit coverage: 98% of pbt - Our audit covered 98 % of the Groups total profit before tax pbt and was completed at Perth, Reading and in Dublin - Overall group materiality: 75m which represents 5% of profit before tax before exceptional items and certain remeasurements Materiality: 5% pbt normalised - Accounting for impairment, unbilled income, debtor recoverability and pensions are the areas of most significant audit effort - The decline in commodity prices in the year has resulted in an increased risk of impairment of assets, in particular, thermal generation, gas production and gas storage assets.
- We no longer assess litigation and claims as a significant area of audit effort.
Significant areas: carrying value of assets, unbilled income, debtor recoverability and pensions 3.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: Event driven risks The risk Our response Risk vs 2015 Carrying value of certain non-current assets fixed and intangible and inventories which aggregate to 13.6 bn 2015 : 12.1 bn p Refer to page 84 Audit Committee statement, notes 4.1 and A1.7 accounting policy and notes 7 and 14 and 15 financial disclosures The decline in commodity prices in the year has resulted in an In this area our procedures included: challenging the groups increased risk of impairment of certain non-current assets, in calculation of value in use or fair value less costs to sell, as particular, thermal generation, gas production and gas storage appropriate, and the calculation of impairment charges during the assets.
This includes fixed assets and intangible assets goodwill year.
This included challenging key assumptions such as earnings and development assets.
and cashflow forecasts included in the impairment review for each CGU or asset tested on a stand-alone basis, and discount rate The estimated recoverable amount is subjective due to the assumptions used by the directors.
We compared the Groups key inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future assumptions noted opposite, where possible, to externally derived cash flows with many of the key underlying assumptions being data to historical analyses or to our expectations based on our impacted by political and economic factors in the UK and globally.
For example we compared the discount rate to those applied by companies operating in a similar environment Assets are reviewed, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of to the group and we compared earnings forecasts with budgets a wider cash-generating unit CGU, for impairment using the used within the business for other purposes in assessing whether higher of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell model.
the Groups assessment was reasonable.
The outcome of these impairment reviews could vary significantly if different assumptions were applied in the model.
We also assessed whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
205 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 3.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Annually recurring risks The risk Our response Risk vs 2015 Accounting for estimated revenue of 0.9 billion 2015 : 1.1 billion included within total external group Energy Supply tu revenues of 7.5 billion 2015 : 8.0 billion Refer to page 92 Audit Committee statement, notes 4.1 and A1.2 accounting policy and note 21 financial disclosures Certain of the Groups energy sales revenues are based on estimates For estimated revenue our procedures included performing various of the values of electricity and gas supplied to customers between analytical procedures using actual data to allow us to set expectations the date of the last meter reading and the year end estimated as to the likely level of estimated revenue and comparing this with the revenues where no bill has been issued at the year end date.
groups estimate, obtaining explanations for significant differences.
We also challenged the groups assumptions relating to volume and The method of estimating such revenues is complex and price used in determining the level of estimated revenue, as follows: judgemental and requires estimates and assumptions to: Volume 1 estimate the volumes of energy consumed by customers.
The We agreed the core volume data underlying the calculation of the groups estimated accrual for revenue at the year end is based estimated volumes into purchases, sales and other systems having on the closing unbilled volume reflected within the financial performed sample testing of the key controls on these systems.
statements in the prior year, with adjustments made for gas or We compared the estimated volume determined by the Group electricity sold to customers as identified from the industry with benchmarks that the Group had also calculated using internal wide settlements system, gas or electricity billed to customers and external information and analysed and sought explanations for as identified from the groups billing system and various other variances from that benchmark.
adjustments: and 2 assess the value to be ascribed to that revenue given the range Price of tariffs.
The group applies a price per unit which is dependent We challenged the assumptions of price per unit by comparing the on a number of factors including location of customers and price applied with historical and current trends and data.
Further, type of billing arrangement to the estimate of volume of energy we assessed the overall consistency of the assumptions and of the to be accrued at year end to arrive at the total estimated value of inputs to the calculation of estimated value of revenue.
energy sales between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
We also considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in this area.
Recoverability of retail receivables of 0.6 billion 2015 : 0.8 billion and unbilled income balances noted above tu Refer to page 84 Audit Committee statement, notes 4.1 and A1.2 accounting policy and notes 21 and 34 financial disclosures The groups billed energy revenues result in significant receivables Our procedures included: testing the groups controls over the with customers and, the risk of customer default remains high, receivables collection processes: considering the receipt of cash resulting in significant judgement being applied in the groups after the year-end: and testing the adequacy of the groups assessment of the recoverability of these receivables.
provisions against trade receivables by assessing the relevant assumptions, taking account of our own knowledge of recent collections experience in this industry and also historical data from the groups previous collections experience.
Valuation of the groups pension obligations the group reflects a net defined benefit pension liability of 0.4 billion tu 2015 : 0.7 billion Refer to page 84 Audit Committee statement, notes 4.1 and A1.10 accounting policy and note 32 financial disclosures The valuation of the groups pension obligations requires significant In this area our procedures included challenging the key assumptions judgment and estimation to be applied across numerous supporting the Groups retirement benefit obligations valuation, with assumptions.
input from our own actuarial specialists.
This included a comparison of the discount and inflation rates and other assumptions used The matter is considered to be a significant risk as small changes in against benchmarks developed by our internal actuaries and the assumptions can have a material financial impact on the results similar assumptions used by other groups with defined benefit and financial position of the Group given the size of the deficit.
Further, we considered the adequacy of the groups disclosures in the area of pension obligations.
In our audit report for the year ended 31 March 2015 we included accounting for litigation and claims as one of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit.
We continue to perform audit procedures over this area.
However, there is a trend of reducing exposure in this area and our audit strategy, allocation of resources and effort reflects that: as a result, we have not assessed this as one of the risks that had the greatest effect on our audit and, therefore, this risk is not separately identified in our report this year.
Financial Statements Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit In establishing the overall audit strategy, and performing the audit, materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 75 million 2015: 110 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation, normalised to exclude exceptional items and certain remeasurements mainly movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement, of which it represents 5.2%, reflecting industry consensus levels 2015: 7.3%.
We consider profit before tax, exceptional items and certain remeasurements to be the most appropriate benchmark as it excludes the non-recurring distorting impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements and is a more stable year on year profit measure.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 3 million 2015: 5 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
75m: group materiality 1,451m 75m 10m - 25m: component materiality range Group Materiality PBT before exceptional items and certain remeasurements Of the groups 224 reporting components, audits for group reporting purposes were performed at 127 components in the UK and Ireland and desktop procedures performed in relation to 7 components.
These audits covered 99% of Group revenue, 98% of Group profit before tax: and 98% of Group total assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 10 million to 25 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 10 of the components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group team.
The Group team issued reporting instructions to the auditor of SGN, the groups most significant joint venture as to the significant areas to be covered during their audit.
The Group team visited the component location in Reading as part of the assessment of the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone calls were also held with the partners of the component auditors and with the partner of Deloitte in respect of the audit of SGN and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
On these calls, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor and Deloitte as relevant.
Scoping of our audit Profit Revenue before tax Net assets Analytical procedures 1% Scoped out of our audit 1% 1% 2% Audits for group reporting purposes 99% 98% 98% 5.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: - the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and - the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
207 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit continued 6.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: - the directors statement of Risk Management on pages 16 to 19, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to March 2019: or - the disclosures in note 34 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: - we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or - the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or - certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: - the directors statements, set out on pages 78 and 18, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and - the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 70 to 79 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ 17 May 2016 208 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 S Sh ha ar re eh hol olde der r i in nf for orm ma at ti ion on Shareholder enquiries Website Capita Asset Services The Companys website, www.
com, contains a wide range of Shareholder Solutions information including a dedicated Investors section where you can The Registry find further information about shareholder services including: 34 Beckenham Road - share price information: Beckenham - dividend history and trading graphs: Kent BR3 4TU - the Scrip Dividend Scheme: - telephone and internet share dealing: and Telephone: 0345 143 4005 - downloadable shareholder forms.
com Digital news We use a dedicated news and views website available at www.
com newsandviews and Twitter www.
com sse to keep shareholders, investors, journalists, employees and other Financial calendar 2016 interested parties up-to-date with news from the Company.
com investors 21 June 2016 eCommunications programme Sign up to our eCommunications Programme at AGM Perth and Trading Statement 21 July 2016 www.
com investors ecommsprogramme and receive shareholder Ex-dividend date for final dividend 28 July 2016 documentation via e-delivery.
Record date for final dividend 29 July 2016 Keep us informed Final date for Scrip elections 26 August 2016 Keep us informed of changes to your email address by visiting Payment date 23 September 2016 www.
com investors ecommsprogramme and follow the instructions under how to register or update your email address.
Results for six months to 30 September 9 November 2016 Copy reports You can view the Annual Report 2016 by accessing the Companys website at www.
CBP0003700206162136 This report has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin and Arcoprint Extra White.
The papers are both elemental chlorine free and are certified according to the requirements of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The Symbol Freelife has a high content of recycled material guaranteed minimum 25%.
Both products are completely biodegradable and recyclable.
Both the paper mill and the printer involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001, as well as the paper mill holding ISO 19001 Quality Management certification.
This report has also been carbon balanced.
SSE plc Annual Report 2016 For further information about SSE, please contact: SSE plc Corporate Affairs Inveralmond House 200 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 3AQ UK Tel: 44 0 1738 456000 Email: info@sse.
com Registered in Scotland No.
com Follow the latest news from SSE on Twitter at: www.
