SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSPGROUP PLC ONLY Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSP Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2016 set out on pages 60 to 104.
Inouropinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 andof the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by theEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were unchanged from the prior year and were as follows: a Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 676.1m, 2015: 609.7m Risk vs 2015: Refer to Audit Committee report on page 35, notes 1 and 2 on pages 67 and 70 and note 11 on pages 77 and 78.
The risk The Group carries significant goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets resulting from acquisitions of businesses in a wide range of geographical locations.
The Groups business is impacted by economic trends such as levels of discretionary travel and consumer spending.
There is a risk that the Groups goodwill balance may not be recoverable due to economic and political uncertainty and poor trading conditions.
The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets is based on discounted future cash flow analysis.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in preparing cash flow projections, including the subjectivity in determining the underlying assumptions, this is one of the most judgemental areas of the audit.
Our response In this area our audit procedures were as follows: We challenged the assumptions for key inputs used by the Group in their forecasts, such as projected market growth, future capital expenditure levels, revenue growth rates, cost projections and inflation, by comparing them to external data, industry norms and our expectations based on our knowledge and experience of the Group.
Additionally, our valuation specialists assisted us in assessing the appropriateness of the methodology and assumptions used by the Group.
We applied sensitivities to key assumptions to assess their impact on the recoverability of the assets.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasts by comparing actual to budgeted results.
We corroborated our understanding of any adverse changes in the business, such as anticipated decline in trading, with the Groups forecasts and considered whether or not such events had been appropriately captured in the impairment models.
We compared the results of the discounted cash flows against the Groups market capitalisation, after adjusting for its debt to determine if there were any significant differences requiring further investigation.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure of the key risks and whether that disclosure reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets.
b Completeness, existence and accuracy of current and deferred tax net current tax liability: 19.5m, 2015: 13.9m, net deferred tax asset: 6.0m, 2015: 1.9m Risk vs 2015: Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 35, notes 1 and 2 on page 70, note 8 on page 75 and note 13 on page 79.
The risk The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions.
The interpretation of tax law can be complex and judgemental.
Differences in tax laws may have a significant impact on how the Group calculates its current and deferred tax liabilities.
Additionally, the outcomes of tax audits and related tax provisions may be different to those anticipated by the Group.
The amount and timing of recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgement, as it is based on specific considerations, such as the future profitability of the business in various jurisdictions, local tax law and availability of temporary differences, such as an excess of capital allowances over depreciation or tax losses.
During the current year, the Group has continued to demonstrate tax profits following a history of tax losses in some jurisdictions indicating that deferred tax assets in the relevant jurisdictions can be recovered.
Therefore this is one of the key judgement areas on which our audit is focused.
57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSPGROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Our response In this area, our audit procedures were as follows: We used our own tax specialists to assist us in assessing and challenging the assumptions and judgements made by the Group.
We considered all significant differences between the statutory and effective rates in each jurisdiction and assessed whether adjustments from accounting profit to taxable profit are in accordance with local laws.
We considered the tax provisions made by the Group and the underlying assumptions.
In assessing the Groups calculations, we have used our knowledge of recent tax cases and our awareness of the pattern of recent tax settlements.
We have also considered developments in the attitudes of tax authorities globally and discussed issues with management in order to determine whether the tax provisions made by the Group were reasonable.
In assessing the level of deferred tax asset balances recognised in the consolidated balance sheet, we compared the assumptions used in respect of future taxable income to the Groups long-term forecasts and budget for the relevant jurisdictions.
We considered whether the improving performance in certain jurisdictions, where there were unrecognised deferred tax assets, amounted to convincing evidence sufficient to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
In addition to profitability, we also considered other factors, such as the expected timing of reversal of temporary differences, any restrictions in accessing such temporary differences, and otherqualitative factors specific to each of the jurisdictions in question.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of current and deferred taxes.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 10.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue of 1,990.3m 2015: 1,832.9m of which it represents 0.5% 2015: 0.5%.
We consider revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than Group profit before tax.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5m 2015: 0.5m in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 15 2015: 15 reporting components, nine were subject to an audit for Group reporting purposes and two to reviews unchanged from prior year.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Together, the audits cover 84% 2015: 84% of Group revenue, 89% 2015: 81% of Group profit before tax and 84% 2015: 86% of Group total assets.
Including the components subject to review, total coverage was 85% 2015: 85% of Group revenue, 92% 2015: 86% of Group profit before tax and 86% 2015: 87% of Group total assets.
The 2015 total assets and profit before tax percentages have been re-presented to more accurately reflect the coverage of our procedures.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.2m to 8m 2015: 0.2m to 8m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 11 of the Groups 15 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
In 2016, the Group audit team visited five of the 15 2015: 15 component locations.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, thefindings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors statement on page 22, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to September 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
58 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee report on pages 32 to 35 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 22 and 54, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 26 to 55 of the Annual Report and Accounts relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Cain Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 28 November 2016 59
