Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC Opinion on financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs th as at 30 November 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Group income statement: the Group and Company balance sheets: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the Group cash flow statement: and the related Group and Company accounting policies, Group notes 1 to 21 and Company notes A to J.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of investment properties: Accounting for the NCGM site: Completeness of tax provisions: Valuation of inventory: and Property disposals and valuation of revenue recognition under IAS 11.
These key risks are consistent with those identified in the prior year.
Last year our auditors report included One-off property transactions as a key risk.
In the current year we have refined this risk to Accounting for the NCGM site.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 10.0m which was determined on the basis of net assets.
Scoping Our Group audit scope is consistent with our scope in the previous year and all audit procedures were performed directly by the Group audit team.
Less than 1% of assets, revenue and profit before tax were not in our audit scope.
Significant changes in In the absence of substantive changes to the Groups business model or activities our audit approach ourapproach is consistent with the previous period, there were no new key risks identified or changes in basis for determining materiality.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Group accounting policies, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 104 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding We confirm that we have the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Group nothing material to add or accounting policies and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group draw attention to in respect contained within the Strategic report on page 52. of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern the directors confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the basis of accounting and we did principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future not identify any such material performance, solvency or liquidity: uncertainties.
However, because the disclosures on pages 49 to 52 that describe those risks and explain how they are being not all future events or conditions managed or mitigated: can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the the directors statement in the Group accounting policies on page 118 about whether they Groups ability to continue considered itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them as a going concern.
and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors We confirm that we are and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical independent of the Group responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Valuation of investment properties Risk description The Group owns a UK-wide property portfolio comprising income producing properties together with residential and commercial land.
The Groups investment property balance, as detailed in note 8 is 1,133m 2015: 1,081m which is held at fair value.
The Groups accounting policy is disclosed on page 115 and further details of investment properties are disclosed in note 8.
Valuation of investment property is a significant judgement area and includes a number of estimates.
The directors employ an external valuer to assist in determining the fair value, who makes a number of key estimates and assumptions, in particular assumptions in relation to market comparable yields and estimates in relation to future rental income increases or decreases, void periods, occupancy rates, lease incentives, break clauses, lease lengths and purchaser costs.
The Audit Committee report on page 66 discloses it as a significant financial matter.
How the scope of Together with our real estate experts, who are Chartered Surveyors, we met with the third party valuer our audit responded appointed by those charged with governance with the aim of understanding the valuation methodology to the risk adopted.
We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the external valuer.
We selected a sample of investment properties for further investigation based on value, absolute and percentage movement, and some random properties.
For this sample, we assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the significant judgements and assumptions applied in the valuation model for each property in our sample.
We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the data provided by St. Modwen to the valuers for the purposes of their valuation exercise.
With the assistance of expert members of our audit team who are Chartered Surveyors, we reviewed the significant assumptions in the valuation process, tested a sample of properties by benchmarking against external appropriate property indices and understood the valuation methodology and the wider market analysis.
We reviewed the information provided by the valuers both in the meeting and contained in the detailed valuation reports: and we undertook our own research into the relevant markets to evaluate the reasonableness of the valuation inputs and the resulting fair values.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 105 Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC continued Accounting for the NCGM site Risk description As disclosed in the Group accounting policies on page 119, the contractual agreement between VSM NCGM Ltd and the Covent Garden Market Authority CGMA involves VSM NCGM Ltd committing to procure a new market for the CGMA and in return receiving an option to acquire the surplus land on the site.
Subsequent to the initial recognition of an asset and a matching liability for the delivery of the development in the Financial statements of VSM NCGM Ltd, the investment property asset is revalued externally at each reporting date.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group recognise the investment in the joint venture company th VSM NCGM Ltd using the equity method of accounting.
Since 30 November 2015, the joint venture company continues to deliver the 57 acre regeneration.
VSM NCGM Ltd recognised a valuation loss during the year of 48.6m, with the Groups share of this loss being 24.3m.
th The total liability of VSM NCGM Ltd for procurement of the new market is valued at 197m as at 30 November 2016 2015: 187m.
The increase in the value results from a discount unwind of 10m which is recognised in finance costs in the joint venture company.
VSM NCGM Ltd has commissioned 49m 2015: 11m of work against this total liability.
NCGM is valued by external valuer Jones Lang LaSalle LLP JLL.
There are a number of judgements and assumptions applied by different parties involved in the valuation of the surplus land element, including gross value of residential property, forecast construction costs, an estimate of the inflationary impact of costs over the course of construction, profit margin and third party liability costs.
Further, the liability, which was recorded on initial recognition for the obligation to procure the new market, has been recorded based on estimates as disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements.
Given the complexities of the model, the significant judgements and estimates involved, which depend on both internal and external inputs, many of which are interrelated, accounting for the NCGM site was considered to be a key risk.
The Audit Committee report on page 67 discloses it as a significant financial matter.
How the scope of We involved our real estate experts to review and challenge the assumptions used by the external valuer in their our audit responded valuation.
In our testing we: to the risk Assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the external valuer: and Held a meeting attended by senior members of our core engagement team, our real estate experts, who are also Chartered Surveyors, and the external valuer.
During this meeting, the valuation basis and assumptions were challenged by our experts and the audit team by obtaining market evidence and testing supporting documentation.
Our experts also performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions used by JLL to illustrate how the property responds to changes in those assumptions.
Our experts reviewed the cost plan and compared the estimates contained therein with the valuers appraisals.
Completeness of tax provisions Risk description As set out in the Groups key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 120, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions as the Group is a property group.
Further details of the provision are disclosed in note 5.
The outcome of tax treatments are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Given significant judgements and estimates involved in calculation of the tax provision, we consider it to be a key risk.
How the scope of We tested the Group tax workings and considered the current and deferred tax implications of property our audit responded acquisitions, disposals and valuation movements which occurred during the year.
We utilised our tax specialists to the risk to appraise the likely outcome of uncertain tax positions, including reviewing any correspondence with HMRC and considered the adequacy of disclosures made in the annual report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 106 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Valuation of inventory Risk description The Groups accounting policy on inventory is disclosed on page 115 and further details of inventory in note 12.
The Groups inventory balance of 229.7m 2015: 183.7m includes properties under construction 90%, land under option 8% and assets held for resale, which are being actively marketed 2%.
The Group have continued to use their own internal appraisal monitoring process during the year to assess the net realisable value NRV of those properties held within inventories through the preparation of appraisals for each site.
The risk within the valuation of inventory is that management site appraisals include a number of judgements that could be manipulated.
Appraisals include forecast revenue and costs that derive a profit margin over the development and provide an indication of the recoverability of the inventory.
We also considered sites that have been written down in prior periods.
Events that have occurred since the original write-down might otherwise prove the site to be recoverable at the pre-written down value.
Given the quantum of the inventories balance recorded by the Group in its financial statements, a misstatement in this balance could have a material impact on the financial statements as a whole.
How the scope of We identified the various components of the Groups inventories and have audited and challenged managements our audit responded appraisal documentation for a representative sample of properties covering 191.0m of the total Group balance to the risk of 229.7m, mainly representing housebuilding sites under the St. Modwen Homes brand.
For each site within the sample of properties we obtained the internal documentation to support the rationale for any transfers from investment properties to inventory: obtained evidence supporting classification as inventory: and challenged whether the expected revenues in site appraisals have been updated to reflect the revenue seen on similar assets in the inventory portfolio and tested the key cost assumptions within the appraisals to supporting evidence.
Where a site has been appraised by management over a period of time, we also sought to understand the changes to assumptions over time.
We also visited a sample of sites and held meetings with local management to support th the appropriateness of classification as at 30 November 2016.
In addition we have reviewed marketed sites and post year-end sales prices to assess whether stock held is marketed below its valuation.
Property disposals and valuation of revenue recognition under IAS 11 Risk description ISA 240 UK and Ireland The auditors responsibility to consider fraud in an audit of financial statements requires auditors to consider which types of revenue transactions may give rise to risk of fraud.
The standard requires us to presume that there are risks of fraud in relation to revenue recognition and to conduct our audit testing accordingly to address this risk.
Development revenue represents 79% of total revenue of the Group, including 150m of revenue from residential projects.
Consistent with our prior year assessment of the risk within revenue recognition in the Group, we have identified a revenue risk to the valuation of revenue recognised for properties under development in accordance with IAS11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC Interpretation 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
This is due primarily to the fact that judgement is required as to whether revenue can be recognised on a contract basis.
Judgement is also exercised in determining the costs to complete for each site and the stage of completion at the balance sheet date.
A key risk in relation to revenue recognition also arises from property disposal transactions occurring near the year-end being recognised in the wrong year.
The Groups accounting policy on revenue is disclosed on page 117 and further revenue details in note 1.
How the scope of We tested a sample of revenue recognised under IAS 11 during the year to ensure the Group policy is in line our audit responded with the accounting standards.
We assessed whether the stage of completion at the balance sheet date was to the risk reasonable by testing the sample of sites for the assessment of stage of completion to independent certification where possible or to the Groups best estimate and contractual terms, recalculating any profit recognised and through our audit of inventories assessing the costs to complete for reasonableness.
With respect to St. Modwen Homes, for a sample of homes sold during the year, we have obtained a copy of the Council of Mortgage Lenders certificates in order to confirm that the properties were physically complete prior to legal completion.
We have also considered all significant property transactions entered into near the year-end date to determine whether the Group policy with regard to revenue and profit recognition has been adhered to.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 107 Independent auditors report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 10.0m 2015: 9.0m Basis for We applied 1% 2015: 1% to the Groups forecasted equity for determining materiality.
We did not subsequently determining revisit our materiality, as the percentage is within the normal range used for public entities in St. Modwens materiality industry of between 1% and 2%.
This percentage takes into account our knowledge of the Group, our assessment of audit risks and the reporting requirements for the financial statements.
th Rationale for the We have used the equity value as at 30 November 2016 as the benchmark for determining materiality, as this benchmark applied benchmark is deemed to be a key driver of business value, is a critical component of the financial statements and is a focus for users of those financial statements for property companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2015: 0.18m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In the current year we increased the percentage applied to calculate the threshold based on market practice.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope is consistent with our scope in the previous year.
We carried out a full scope audit of the Group, to enable us to sign off an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Our audit scope is summarised as follows: For those entities subject to a statutory audit by Deloitte UK, we performed our audit procedures on these entities to a local statutory materiality.
The range for standalone materialities was from less than 1,000 to 9.0m 2015: less than 1,000 to 8.1m for entities in scope.
There were no significant change in standalone materialities this year: For those entities where Deloitte UK are not the statutory auditors we performed our audit procedures to a component materiality of 50% of Group materiality level for the purpose of our Group opinion.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 108 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report We confirm that we have not identified any such Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, inconsistencies or misleading inour opinion, information in the annual report is: statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Dodworth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK th 6 February 2017 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 109
