Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Stagecoach Group plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and financial statements the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet statement of financial position as at 30 April 2016: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 8.6m 2015: 8.7m which represents 5% 2015: 5% of profit before tax prior to exceptional items and after intangible asset expenses.
In expressing our opinion over the Group financial statements, we audited the financial information of North America and all reporting units for UK Rail, and the 15 most significant reporting units by size for UK Bus London and UK Bus regional operations.
We also instructed and received reporting from component auditors in relation to Virgin Rail Group and Twin America.
We performed additional audit procedures at a Group level including over the consolidation, and on exceptional items, pensions, taxation, financial instruments, share based payments and presentation of the Group financial statements.
We updated our understanding of the key controls and processes that management have in place in relation to material balances and tested those that provided us with appropriate evidence for the purposes of our audit.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 93% 2015: 91% of Group profit before tax prior to exceptional items, 96% 2015: 92% of Group revenues and 72% 2015: 73% of Group total assets.
Our audit focused on the following areas: Pension liabilities: North America and UK Bus insurance provisions: Uncertain tax positions: Impairment and onerous contracts reviews: and Exceptional items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
SC100764 continued How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus Pension liabilities We obtained and read the independent actuarys report commissioned by management which reported on the assumptions and methodology used to calculate the pension The Group had a net pension deficit of 96.7m as at 30 liabilities and compliance of managements approach with the relevant accounting April 2016 2015: 160.5m.
We focused on the valuation of the pension liabilities We challenged the critical actuarial assumptions used including the discount rate, life because of their significance to the overall financial expectancies of scheme members and inflation rates and the judgements taken by statements.
Relatively small movements in assumptions management in applying these assumptions in calculating the pension liabilities.
applied can result in a material impact to the financial statements.
This included comparing those critical actuarial assumptions used by management to independent estimates prepared by our specialists based on their understanding of Valuation of pension liabilities is dependent upon Stagecoach pension schemes and expectations based on wider industry knowledge.
In judgement by management in determining and addition to our assessment of managements critical assumptions, we also compared applying appropriate assumptions used in the actuarial those assumptions to our own benchmark range of companies.
These assumptions include life applied by management were within our expected or benchmark ranges.
expectancies of scheme members, discount rate and inflation rates.
We checked that managements process and methodology in calculating the net pension deficit was consistently applied year to year for accounting purposes and reflected the Applying an appropriate methodology consistent with most recent triennial valuation reports and found this to be the case.
the requirements of accounting standards also requires judgement.
We tested pension scheme membership information as this is a key input used in the Refer also to notes 6 and 25 to the consolidated overall pension liability calculations.
We agreed this data, on a sample basis, to underlying financial statements.
We did not note any material exceptions in our testing.
North America and UK Bus insurance provisions Our audit testing with respect to both the North America and UK Bus insurance provisions was as follows: Total insurance provisions as at 30 April 2016 amount We updated our understanding of the key controls and processes that management to 148.6m 2015: 150.7m, the majority of which has in place to assess insurance claims and related provisions and found these to be relates to UK Bus and North America.
consistently applied year to year.
Although the Group uses insurance policies to protect We evaluated whether consistent processes and methodologies had been applied year against claims, the excesses under these policies that on year in determining the levels of provisioning, by management in North America apply to individual claims are payable by the Group and and management and the independent actuary for the UK Bus provision.
The provided for on the balance sheet.
These provisions are processes and methodologies were consistently applied.
The provisions require management to use their experience and judgment to In addition for North America: estimate both the liability for known cases, and the We tested certain controls that provided us with audit evidence over the liability for exposures on cases which have not yet been completeness and accuracy of the claims data, as well as completing substantive reported.
testing over settlements in the year.
No exceptions were noted from this testing.
For the North America insurance provision, We used our team, with relevant actuarial experience, in North America to management calculates the provision in-house, using independently recalculate North American insurance provisions based on underlying its knowledge and experience of loss rates and applying data used by management.
We compared the level of provision calculated by management with the independent For the UK Bus insurance provision, the provision is calculation by our internal US actuaries and found the provision to be within our based upon an independent actuarial review, with expected actuarial range.
adjustment by management to reflect its view of In addition for UK Bus: volatility in actuarial estimates from year to year, We performed substantive audit testing over the underlying claims data.
We tested a applying a consistent process and methodology.
sample of year-end claims provisions by comparing the provision with recent Refer also to note 24 to the consolidated financial settlement history for similar cases and obtaining relevant correspondence.
tested settlements in the year.
We did not note any material exceptions based on our evaluation of the available claims and settlement information.
We obtained and read the independent actuarys report commissioned by management which reported on the valuation of the UK Bus insurance provision.
Based on our consideration of the report and available evidence, the methodology, assumptions and approach applied by management are in line with market practice and accounting standards.
We calculated an expected provision based on settlements and average claim life and compared this to the level of provision held by management and found that the value of the UK Bus provision is not materially different.
Uncertain tax positions We obtained reports showing the components of the tax provisions and used them to identify the most significant balances for testing.
We then applied various selection The Group has a net consolidated tax liability of criteria, including identifying the largest balances, for testing.
As appropriate, we tested 58.8m as at 30 April 2016 2015: 63.2m which the completeness, accuracy and valuation of the provisions as follows: includes provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions.
These were an area of focus in our audit In undertaking our testing, we obtained evidence to substantiate the continued because of the judgemental nature of the balances recognition of the opening tax provisions and the recognition and measurement of any and the inherent complexity of interpreting and movements in tax provisions in the year.
implementing taxation rules and the risk of challenge We understood and re-performed the provision calculation with no exceptions noted.
of certain of the Groups tax positions.
We read relevant correspondence with tax authorities and considered the implications Refer also to notes 7 and 23 to the consolidated for our audit.
We used our tax expertise and our knowledge and experience of developments in the relevant tax jurisdictions to consider the completeness of liabilities and challenged the basis of the significant provision judgements made by management and their in-house tax specialists.
We utilised our experience of similar situations elsewhere to independently assess the evidence supporting those tax provisions.
Based on our evaluation of the evidence obtained from the procedures described above, we did not identify any material misstatement in the tax provisions.
page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 63 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment and onerous contracts review In summary, our approach to impairment and onerous contract reviews was as follows: The carrying value of the Groups interest in Twin We discussed the performance and outlook for the Twin America business, the Sheffield America is impaired as a result of the challenging market Supertram business and the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise with Twin America, North factors in the New York sightseeing market, through America, UK Rail and Stagecoach Group management.
increasing competition and regulatory pressures.
Trading In considering managements impairment and onerous contract assessment models for conditions at Twin America remain challenging.
these businesses, we tested and challenged management to substantiate the key Management has undertaken an impairment review as assumptions used in the models, particularly in relation to revenue assumptions applied at 30 April 2016 of the carrying value of the Groups by management.
We determined that the assumptions used by management were interest in Twin America and has concluded that the supportable based on our knowledge of the performance and outlook for the businesses carrying value is fully impaired at the balance sheet date.
and based on supporting evidence provided by management.
The financial performance at Sheffield Supertram was In evaluating managements trading and cash flow assumptions used in their impairment adversely affected by the closure of parts of the tram model, we compared forecast results to recent trading results and our knowledge of network to undertake replacement of the tram track.
future changes to the business, corroborated through discussions with management.
The financial performance has not recovered to the Using the support of our valuations specialists, we evaluated the methodology used by extent previously forecast.
Management has also management within its impairment and onerous contract calculations.
Based on undertaken an impairment review as at 30 April 2016 of available evidence, we can conclude that the methodology, assumptions and approach Sheffield Supertram and concluded that the carrying applied are in line with market practice.
value of the assets are impaired by 6.0m.
The profit of Virgin Trains East Coast has been less than To assist us in challenging managements assumptions, we applied sensitivities to that forecast by the Group at the time of its bid for the managements forecasts and considered the extent of a change in those assumptions, individually or together, that could give rise to a material adjustment to the identified franchise.
As a result, management has carried out an impairment charge or result in an onerous contract.
onerous contract review of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise and concluded that the contract will earn a Legal matters were discussed with Group Legal and their external legal advisors, and profit for the remaining term of its franchise.
appropriate documentation considered to understand the application of contract terms The assessments for impairment and onerous contracts under the Virgin Trains East Coast Franchise Agreement.
are based on judgement and involve modelling and projecting certain assumptions, the most significant of which are future revenue growth assumptions and the application of contract terms.
In evaluating managements assessments we focused on these key assumptions.
Refer also to notes 4, 13 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Exceptional items In summary, our approach to exceptional items was as follows: As a result of the exceptional items in relation to the We assessed the appropriateness of the costs classified as exceptional against the impairment of the Groups interest in Twin America, Groups definition of exceptional items as set out in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements and determined the classification to be appropriate.
the impairment of assets at Sheffield Supertram and finance costs associated with the early redemption of We substantively tested the exceptional costs for the bond refinancing expenses, the bonds, 67.2m of exceptional costs have been Sheffield Supertram and Twin America impairments by testing to supporting recorded during the year.
We noted no exceptions from this testing.
Because of the judgement involved in determining We also considered whether there were other significant costs which should have been what costs are deemed exceptional and whether such included in exceptional items and noted no such items.
determination is made on a consistent basis, we We checked the nature of the costs and confirmed they were treated appropriately as focused on this area because misstatements in the exceptional items within the income statement.
We reviewed the disclosures in the exceptional costs could result in a misstatement of the Annual Report relating to exceptional items.
From the audit work performed, we did not note any exceptions arising from our testing.
Refer also to notes 4 and 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The scope of our audit reflected the organisational structure of the Group, being 5 business areas: UK Bus London, UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe, UK Rail and North America.
As a result, we performed an audit of the financial information of all reporting units of UK Rail and North America and the 15 most significant reporting units by scale based on profit before tax of UK Bus.
The audit work on all in scope reporting units, with the exception of Twin America and Virgin Rail Group, was performed directly by the Group engagement team.
For Twin America, the Group engagement team instructed component auditors from PwC US, identifying and explaining areas of focus for their work.
We also communicated with a firm outside of the PwC network of firms with respect to the audit of the complete financial information of the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
The Group engagement team held meetings and calls with those component auditors to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and our reporting requirements.
In addition, we had meetings and calls with the component auditors as their audit work progressed so that we could effectively supervise, direct and understand the findings from their work.
This scope together with directed scope procedures over certain financial statement line items meant we performed audit work across components of the Group that accounted for 93% 2015: 91% of Group profit before tax prior to exceptional items, 96% 2015: 92% of Group revenue and 72% 2015: 73% of Group total assets.
In addition, the Group audit team performed additional procedures over the consolidation process, exceptional items, pensions, taxation, financial instruments, share based payment and presentation of the Group financial statements, to give us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
SC100764 continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 8.6m 2015: 8.7m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax prior to exceptional items and after intangible asset expenses of 171.6m.
2015: 5% of profit before tax prior to exceptional items and after intangible asset expenses of 173.1m.
Rationale for benchmark applied This year, like the prior year, we have excluded exceptional items from our adjusted profit before tax benchmark so that our overall materiality was not impacted by these one off expenses.
We believe that this is a measure used by shareholders in evaluating the underlying business performance, and the exclusion of exceptional items provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
We applied a lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 430,000 2015: 435,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out in section 3.12, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance report set out in section 4 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors in section 3.6, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to report.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Section 5.1 to section 5.6 of the Annual Report, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of We have no exceptions the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation in section 4.13.3 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would material to add or to threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or We have nothing mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 132577 STC Back PRINT 132577 STC Back V12 12 07 2016 12:37 Page 65 the Directors explanation in section 3.12 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as We have nothing to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider material to add or to that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the draw attention to.
Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Responsibility statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2016 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Martin Cowie Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 8 July 2016 Stagecoach Group plc | page 65
