INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified OVERVIEW We have audited the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages Materiality: Group $150m 2015: $150m 199 to 293.
In our opinion: financial statements 4.3% 2015: 3.4% of a four-year normalised as a whole The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the average Group profit before tax Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended Coverage 92% 2015: 95% of Group profit before tax PBT The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU Impairment on loans and advances recurring risk The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Provisions and disclosure for legal and regulatory Act2006 1 matters event-driven risk The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Goodwill impairment recurring risk therequirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IASs Regulation Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value and related valuation adjustments recurring risk 1 Information technology recurring risk 1.
Separately set out in the auditors report for first time in 2016 192 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our work included testing the key controls over the processing of The starting point for our audit was a consideration of the inherent risks transactions and the key inter-system, bank and custodial to the Groups business model and how these have been mitigated.
reconciliations as well as trade confirmations.
These automated and This included understanding the strength of the Groups capital and manual controls are pervasive to all risks across the Group.
liquidity position, the diversification of its assets and the flexibility and These assessments enabled us to form a judgement on going concern tenor of its balance sheet.
and to determine the key areas of financial statement risk on which our We assessed and challenged the inherent risks with reference to: audit should be focused.
Thereafter, by looking at both broad risk themes across the Group and particular concerns in specific International Monetary Fund IMF economic forecasts and geographies and businesses, we were then able to calibrate our work commentary to financial statement risk more precisely.
The perspectives of our in-country audit teams on their local As a result, we recalibrated our assessment of the risks of material economies, particularly the banking sector misstatement as compared to prior year.
The views of our specialists in a number of areas including bank We removed the provision for redundancy and other restructuring regulation, IT and tax costs because the events and circumstances giving rise to the risk The views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and were related to the prior year reorganisation regulators in other key geographies The level of regulatory change across the footprint, as well as a The results of the PRAs stress tests, published on 30 November number of new and ongoing regulatory matters, warranted the 2016 identification of provisions and disclosure for legal and regulatory matters as one of the risks that had most significant effect on our The Groups budgets, regular forecasts, internal stress testing, audit reporting to the Audit, Board Risk and Group Risk Committees and the many discussions we have with senior management of the Group Given the high dependence on technology and the significant daily as well as country management teams volume of transactions processed, the Groups investment in its IT infrastructure and heightened focus on user access controls, we The risks and focus areas of our audit we identified as a result are set separately identified information technology as one of the risks that out on the following pages.
had most significant effect on our audit We considered the Groups control environment and in particular In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, the risks of whether its systems were processing transactions completely and material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in faithfully, and included appropriate controls designed to prevent fraud.
decreasing order of audit significance, are set out below.
SUMMARY OF KEY RISKS Significant risks Areas of focus Impairment of loans and advances India loan exposures Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking clients Indonesia loan exposures, including exposures in the Groups joint venture Diamond and jewellery exposures Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking clients China loan exposures Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking clients Commodities and oil and gas and related exposures together commodities and relatedexposures Loan exposures denominated in US dollars for counterparties operating in non-US jurisdictions Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking clients Liquidation portfolio valuation Significant Early Alert and Group Special Asset Management GSAM loans Management judgements employed in the calculation of collective provisions Disclosures in relation to credit risk including forbearance Provisions for legal and Historical fines sanctioned by the US authorities regulatory matters Investigations by regulators, specifically in the US, UK and Hong Kong Goodwill impairment Cash-generating units with low headroom Valuation of financial instruments Valuation of level 3 financial instruments Modelling of and inputs into valuation of derivative and other instruments Appropriateness of valuation adjustments Disclosures of the fair value hierarchy Information technology Key systems at the local, regional and Group level and at the Groups shared services centres www.
com 193 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND ADVANCES The carrying value of loans and advances to banks and customers held at amortised cost may be materially misstated, if impairments are not appropriately identified and estimated.
The identification of impaired assets and the estimation of impairments including estimates of future cash flows, valuation of collateral and calculation of the collective provision involves significant management judgement.
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 1, Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 78 and the disclosures of credit risk on pages 150 to 168.
Corporate & Institutional Banking clients, Commercial Banking clients and Private Banking clients collectively larger clients represent 72 per cent $237 billion of the Groups net loan exposure, whereas Retail clients represent 28 per cent $93 billion.
These exposures are different in nature and require a different approach to auditing loan impairment.
The larger client exposure comprises loans that are monitored individually due to size, based on the knowledge of each individual borrower.
In contrast, the retail client exposure comprises much smaller value loans to a greater number of customers.
Accordingly, loans are not evaluated for impairment on an individual basis, but are grouped by product into homogeneous exposures.
Exposures are then monitored through delinquency statistics and impairment recorded based on projected losses, adjusted for current market conditions.
Therefore, we designed our audit response to address the individual impairment provision, for the larger clients, and the collective impairment provision, for both the larger and retail clients.
The Group continued to fide-risk their loan book across all segments.
Areas of focus Our response Indian Corporate & Institutional and Our procedures included: Commercial Banking client loan exposures Manual and automated controls over individual and collective provisions: Tested key due to tightening liquidity, slow regulatory controls over the credit grading, governance and monitoring process to assess if the risk reform, high debt levels, weak balance sheets grades allocated to counterparties were accurate and loans were appropriately identified and and demonetisation.
migrated through, on a timely basis, early alert or grades 12 to 14.
Tested key management Indonesia Corporate & Institutional Banking controls over the input of underlying data into the collective provision models and Commercial Banking loan exposures Risk assessment: We performed risk assessment to identify higher risk portfolios including exposures in the Groups joint discussed on the left, including an assessment of managements own portfolio stress tests venture, due to stress in the local economy.
and risk mitigation actions to identify areas of focus.
We scoped additional loans for credit Diamond and jewellery-related exposures, assessment over and above the sampling criteria below, when we deemed specific given refinancing issues in the sector and counterparties high risk in light of the portfolio analysis performed challenges with collateral recovery.
Credit file reviews: At each scoped component, performed credit file reviews for control Chinese Corporate & Institutional and and substantive purposes to test the accuracy of risk ratings and recoverability of loans.
We Commercial Banking loan exposures due to critically assessed all loans with a carrying value above $40 million in credit grades 12 to 14 slowdown of the economy and refinancing see pages 153 to 154, certain loans above $75 million on the Groups Early Alert Report see pressure.
page 144, and a selection of loans in credit grades 1 to 11 see pages 153 to 154 selected by component teams based on local materiality levels and specific risks.
Our credit file reviews Commodities and related exposures as challenged the forecast of recoverable cash flows, probability of realisation, and valuation of commodity and oil prices remain depressed.
collateral and other possible sources of repayment.
We compared key assumptions against Corporate & Institutional and Commercial business plans and our understanding of the relevant industries and business environments, Banking loan exposures denominated in as well as to externally derived evidence such as commodity prices, business performance US dollars for counterparties operating in and real estate valuations non-US jurisdictions impacted by exchange Liquidation portfolio: This portfolio comprises selected impaired exposures and our rate fluctuations.
procedures in respect of the impaired exposures involved assessing the key judgements Liquidation portfolio due to the judgement relating to recovery, namely the likely price or underlying security valuations and expected required to assess the price at which the time to sell Group could sell impaired loans.
Challenge collective impairment provision model methodology and inputs: Our Significant Early Alert and GSAM loans due modelling specialists evaluated model methodology, key assumptions and managements significant estimates and to judgement model validation for a sample of models.
We substantively tested the completeness and required to assess recoverability.
accuracy of key inputs e. g. year-end balances, repayment history, risk ratings into models and assessed the appropriateness of the emergence period for both larger clients and retail Management judgements employed in the clients.
We compared the model output to the Groups observed loss history and compared calculation of collective provisions.
coverage rates to externally available industry, financial and economic data, where available Disclosures related to credit risk, including Adequacy of specific risk overlays: We critically challenged the appropriateness of those over forbearance.
management overlays to the modelled collective provision to assess if it reflects recent loss experience, current market conditions and specific risks to the exposure.
We also assessed the completeness of overlays, i. e. that all material risk pockets were considered Disclosures: We critically assessed whether disclosures appropriately reflect the Groups exposure to credit risk, including controls over identification and disclosure of forborne loans, collateral valuation and sensitivity of key assumptions 194 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PROVISIONS FOR LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS There are a number of pending and ongoing legal disputes and regulatory investigations involving the Group.
The directors exercise significant judgement over the recognition and measurement of provisions, including when a constructive obligation arises, and the measurement and disclosure of contingent liabilities relating to these matters, which are subject to the future outcome of legal or regulatory processes.
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgments in note 23, Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 78 and disclosure of legal and regulatory matters in note 25.
Areas of focus Our response We focused on risks arising from matters in Our procedures included: the US, Hong Kong and UK.
Our focus was Corroborative inquiry: regular meetings with regional and local management and directors, driven by: the Groups internal legal teams, the Groups external counsel in the US, the Groups general Historical fines sanctioned by US authorities counsel, and the Groups UK regulatory bodies who are in regular contact with US and other see pages 250 to 251 against the Group regulatory bodies to understand the nature and status of legal disputes and regulatory and other banking entities, focused on investigations and to understand the legal position and basis of provisioning financial crime compliance Review third party documentation: inspected communications from regulators and legal Investigations by regulators, specifically in opinions obtained from the Groups external counsel the US, UK and Hong Kong see page 251 Challenge key assumptions: challenged the adequacy of provisions recognised, or lack thereof, including whether recognition criteria are met, by critically assessing the key assumptions forming the basis of the provisioning and comparing the assumptions to available peer and historical data Disclosures: assessed the disclosures to determine whether they were sufficiently clear regarding the inherent uncertainty associated with provisions recognised and assessing appropriateness and extent of contingent disclosures for those pending matters for which no provision has been raised GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT Goodwill may be misstated if the carrying value of goodwill in the balance sheet is not supported by the estimated discounted future cash flows of the underlying business.
The estimation of future cash flows and the assumptions involved in calculating the discounted value of these cash flows both involve the application of management judgement.
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 1, Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 78 and the disclosures of goodwill in note 17.
Areas of focus Our response Pre-impairment goodwill in the balance sheet is Our procedures included: $3.6 billion with approximately $2.6 billion of this Methodology review: our valuation specialists assessed the appropriateness of the Groups relating to cash-generating units CGUs where valuation approach and discount rate calculation post-acquisition growth in cash flows provides substantial headroom over the goodwill balance Critically assess cash flows: with direct involvement of component audit teams, assessed and for which we identified no other indicators the internal consistency of cash flow assumptions as compared to formal business plans and of impairment.
We regard these as low risk from our knowledge of the local banking environment and compared forecasts to historical a misstatement perspective.
experience Our work was therefore focused on the Challenge of other key assumptions: challenged the Groups identification of CGUs, $1.0 billion of goodwill from CGUs with lower discount rate, growth rate, and other non-financial assumptions through comparison to headroom and for which we identified other external sources, and, where appropriate, those used by peer banks and other economic indicators of impairment.
As a result our work metrics was focused on, but not limited to, Taiwan and Disclosures: assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, including sensitivity to Thailand.
We also performed targeted key assumptions, reflect the risks inherent to the valuation of goodwill procedures over the $1.5 billion of goodwill from CGUs that are particularly sensitive to the impairment model discount rate assumptions, but that otherwise have sufficient headroom www.
com 195 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS HELD AT FAIR VALUE AND RELATED VALUATION ADJUSTMENTS The valuation of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss or as available-for-sale may be misstated due to the application of valuation techniques which often involve the exercise of judgement and the use of assumptions and estimates.
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 1, Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 78 and the disclosures of valuation risk in note 13.
Areas of focus Our response Valuation of level 3 positions comprising Our procedures included: $2.3 billion, 1.2% of total fair value financial Valuation controls: we tested the Groups controls over the identification, measurement and instruments 2015: $3.0 billion, 1.5%, including management of valuation risk including independent price verification control, governance unlisted investments in the Principal Finance over valuation models, model validation and management reporting of valuation risk business and derivatives with significant unobservable pricing inputs.
Modelling methodologies: we assessed whether, the model valuation methodologies used for material valuation risks are appropriate, utilising our valuation specialists Modelling of and key inputs into the valuation of derivative and other instruments.
Price testwork: we tested, for a selection of pricing inputs, that they were externally sourced and were correctly input into pricing models.
We independently valued a selection of the Appropriateness of and inputs into valuation Groups debt and equity securities and compared these to the Groups valuation.
For a adjustments including those relating to selection of derivative positions, we obtained the valuation of each position submitted by the counterparty credit, funding and own counterparty to a common collateral platform used in the Groups collateral management creditrisk.
process and compared these to the Groups own valuation for the same position Disclosures of the fair value hierarchy of assets Level 3: we assessed, for a selection of level 3 positions, the valuation methodology, model and liabilities held at fair value, including the and assumptions used, considering potential alternatives and sensitivities to key factors.
assessment of observability of pricing inputs.
Independently vouched key pricing inputs to source data and assessed the appropriateness of assumptions used in relation to unobservable inputs.
We challenged the appropriateness and completeness of the model reserves held against instruments where elements of risk could not be modelled Valuation adjustments: utilising our valuation specialists, we assessed the appropriateness of the methodologies and models used to estimate valuation adjustments.
We assessed for a selection of transactions the appropriateness of key assumptions and inputs, in particular counterparty credit risk.
For a sample of counterparties agreed credit risk inputs to directly observable sources and, where proxies were used, we assessed the appropriateness of the proxy, considering the availability of alternatives Disclosures: we tested a selection of instruments to establish the observability of key pricing inputs with reference to active markets and, where relevant, the term of the instrument.
We assessed the appropriateness of the fair value hierarchy assigned to these instruments.
Particularly for level 3 positions, we assessed whether the financial statement disclosures, including sensitivity to key inputs, appropriately reflect the Groups exposure to valuation risk INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Groups key financial accounting and reporting processes are highly dependent on the automated controls over the Groups information systems, such that there exists a risk that gaps in the IT control environment could result in the financial accounting and reporting records being materially misstated.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 74 to 78.
Areas of focus Our response Our audit effort focused on key systems in Our procedures included: country and at Group level and at the Groups General IT controls: we tested the governance and other higher controls operating over the shared services centres, with particular focus information technology environment across the Group, including system access and system on security and access management, change management, program development and computer operations segregation of duties and controls over system change.
We considered the appropriateness of the access rights granted to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting systems and the operating effectiveness of controls over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights Application controls: we tested the design and operating effectiveness of automated controls critical to financial accounting and reporting.
For any identified deficiencies, tested the design and operating effectiveness of compensating controls and, where necessary, extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures 196 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Components hubs 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 2016 2015 Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set with 1 Total Group components 178 177 reference to a benchmark of the normalised average profit or loss Subject to full scope audit 35 33 before tax for the past four years representing 4.3 per cent of the Subject to specified procedures 4 3 benchmark 2015: 3.4 per cent.
Absolute values of profit 2016, 2014, Hubs subject to specified audit procedures 8 8 2013 and loss 2015 before tax were considered after normalisation adjustments for the impairment of goodwill 2015, 2014 and 2013 as 1.
Component defined as reporting component within the Groups consolidation system, disclosed in note 17 and the Civil Penalty from the US branch 2014 as typically these are a branch or subsidiary of the Group these items are discrete.
This approach mitigates undue volatility in determining our materiality, Four-year average normalised Materiality Group profit before tax focusing on underlying profitability of the Group over the past four $150m Whole financial statements materiality years.
2015: $150m We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements affecting Group profit and loss or Group shareholders funds exceeding $7.5 million 2015: $7.5 million and affecting Group assets and liabilities exceeding $75 million 2015: $3.5bn $75 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted 2015 reporting on qualitative grounds.
3-year average : $75m $4.4bn Coverage and scoping: The coverage of our audit is focused on Balance sheet reclassication misstatements reported to the those components which are either individually significant or contain Audit Committee 2015: $75m significant risks.
Component scoping: Components subject to specified audit $40m Range of materiality at 35 procedures as shown in the table above were not individually components $1m-$40m 2015: $1m-$40m Group materiality financially significant to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, $7.5m Normalised PBT Misstatements reported to the but were scoped on the basis of the significant volume of liquid assets Audit Committee 2015: $7.5m and transactions processed in those components.
The components within the scope of our work account for the percentages illustrated in the Group total assets and Group profit before tax tables to the right.
Group total assets All central processing hubs where in-scope financial reporting 5% processes are performed were subject to specified audit procedures, Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 13% specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 primarily over transaction processing and IT controls.
Residual components 2016 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 Component materiality and coverage: The Group team instructed 3% specified risk-focused audit procedures 2015 component and hub auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, 11% Residual components 2015 including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported to the Group team.
The Group team approved the component 95% materiality levels, which ranged from $1 million to $40 million, having 2015: 97% regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the 86% components and hubs.
Aside from the audit of the parent company, consolidation, valuation of financial instruments, collective impairment provision methodology and goodwill impairment, all audit work was performed by component or hub auditors.
The Group team also 82% performed quality assurance checks on loan impairment judgements made by component auditors for all loans above $40 million in credit grades 12, 13 and 14 see page 153 to 154 and higher risk loans above Group profit before tax $75 million on the Groups early alert list see page 144.
8% Group oversight: As part of determining the scope and preparing the Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 audit plan and strategy, the Group team led a global planning specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 9% conference to discuss key audit risks and obtain input from component Residual components 2016 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 and hub teams.
Senior audit partners oversaw the audit in each region 5% specified risk-focused audit procedures 2015 3% and facilitated implementation of the audit approach over key risks.
Residual components 2015 Further, the Group team visited 11 2015: 7 component and hub locations, including China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Kenya, 92% Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Tanzania UAE and US.
Regular 2015: 95% conference calls were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits 92% and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team and any further work required by the Group team were discussed in more detail.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies In particular, we are required to report to you if: Act 2006 is unmodified We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge In our opinion: we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they The part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report position and performance, business model and strategy: or for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements The Corporate governance section of the Annual Report describing Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit report and the Directors report: Committee.
We have not identified material misstatements in those reports Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in In our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with our opinion: the Companies Act 2006 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 5.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received risks from branches not visited by us Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have The parent company financial statements and the part of the nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement The directors Viability statement on page 124, concerning the with the accounting records and returns principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in operation not made over the three years to 31 December 2019 We have not received all the information and explanations we require The disclosures in Other disclosures on page 124 concerning the for our audit use of the going concern basis of accounting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception The Directors statements, set out on page 124, in relation to going Under ISAs the UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, concern and longer-term viability based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have The part of the Corporate governance statement on page 64 relating identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial Corporate Governance Code specified for our review statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 131, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Michelle Hinchliffe frc.
This report is made solely to the Senior Statutory Auditor Companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered on our website at kpmg.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are Accountants incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to 15 Canada Square provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we London E14 5GL have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
24 February 2017 198 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016
