SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Report on the financial statements Strategic Report Our opinion Independent In our opinion: Our SuperGroup Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Governance view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the 53 weeks then ended: Auditors Financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Statements IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Report.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and to the members of SuperGroup Plc the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 30 April 2016: the Group statement of comprehensive income for the 53 weeks then ended: the Group and Company cash flow statements for the 53 weeks then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the 53 weeks then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk 89 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our audit approach Overview Independent Overall group materiality: 3.6 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before income tax.
We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of four reporting units: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc due to their size and Auditors risk characteristics.
In addition, we conducted the statutory audits of three reporting units, two located in the UK Materiality and one located in Germany, such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the Report.
group financial statements, as well as performing specific procedures in the US, which included attending year-end physical inventory observations and substantively testing revenue and costs to the members of SuperGroup Plc associated with the US business.
Audit scope We also conducted audit procedures over central activities, including managements reassessment of the fair values attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired in relation to the US business combination and intangible asset impairment testing.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of Areas particular focus for our work which are listed below: of focus Acquisition accounting, including managements reassessment of the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities in respect of the US business combination and the exceptional items arising therefrom.
Inventory, accounts receivable and property-related provisions.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk 90 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Strategic Report We updated our understanding of the US business combination with SD Acquisition accounting, including managements Independent USA, managements assessment of the performance of the US business and reassessment of the fair values attributed to the their re-assessment of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities.
Our acquired assets and liabilities in respect of the US Governance We have re-examined the following areas in our testing: business combination and the exceptional items i.
The results of the model, prepared by managements expert, have been Auditors arising therefrom tested by: evaluating the appropriateness of the methodology used: Financial benchmarking the discount rate to comparable organisations and data Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 61, the critical accounting Statements sources: benchmarking the growth rate to long-term economic forecasts estimates and judgements in note 2 to the financial statements on page 110, for the US: re-performing the discounting of cash flows: assessing the and note 33 for the revisions to the fair values of assets and liabilities arising Report.
appropriateness of contributory asset charges based on a reasonably on the US business combination.
expected return on the underlying asset: and testing the mathematical In March 2015, the Group completed the US business combination with to the members of SuperGroup Plc accuracy.
We found the assumptions adopted and methodology applied SD USA LLC SD USA which allowed the Group exclusive rights to the by the expert to be consistent with that used when management Superdry brand in the USA, Canada and Mexico North America and assessed the provisional fair value of the re-acquired right intangible the acquisition of the trade and certain assets from SD USA, comprising asset at 25 April 2015. principally 15 Superdry stores.
The 12-month measurement period in ii.
The revised cash flow forecasts used in the valuation model were agreed respect of this transaction concluded in March 2016, and management have to Board approved papers for the first five years.
We understood and reassessed the provisional fair values attributed to the assets and liabilities challenged assumptions in the forecasts such as phasing of forecast acquired.
store openings and capital expenditure forecasts.
The re-assessment of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities iii.
The fair value ascribed to inventory, by challenging managements involved judgements in relation to the identification and valuation of assets assessment of the quality of inventory by reference to the age of that and liabilities recognised.
In particular: inventory, agreeing margins by sales channel to recent actual sales rates The valuation of the re-acquired right intangible asset required experienced following the business combination.
We also challenged judgement to determine the estimated future cash flows under the judgements formed around costs to sell, by reference to actual costs remaining 23 year licence period.
The estimated future cash flows were experienced in the same sales channels elsewhere in the Group.
then input into a model prepared by managements expert.
We found these to be appropriate.
The valuation of inventory included judgement to determine the fair value iv.
The competency of managements external experts who prepared the with reference to the quality of that inventory, based on management valuation assessment for the market value of the US store lease rentals experience, current retail prices, costs of selling, average margins and and the model used to value the reacquired right intangible asset, by actual sales rates experienced following the business combination.
evaluating the professional qualifications and reputation of the expert.
The assessment of the market value of the lease rentals for the acquired We found them to be reputable and appropriately qualified.
stores required judgement in identifying similar sized stores based in v. The market value of the lease rentals identified as being in excess of similar locations.
Management used an external expert to perform this the current market rates, by having a PwC property valuations expert assessment.
evaluate the prevailing rental values for the location of these stores.
Our Exceptional items primarily relate to the revision to the amount of the expert also considered the methodology utilised by managements expert bargain purchase recognised in FY15 and the impact of the fair value uplift for reasonableness.
We agreed the rental payments currently made by recognised in relation to the acquired inventory, which was subsequently the Group and the outstanding lease terms for these stores to original sold during the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2016.
Judgement was required by lease agreements and cash paid to the respective lessors.
We found this management in determining whether these items met the Groups accounting provision to be appropriate.
Having obtained audit evidence over the valuation of assets and liabilities acquired, we re-performed managements calculation of the resulting adjustment to the bargain purchase recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
We considered the classification of this item and the impact of the inventory fair value uplift relating to acquired inventory sold during the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2016 to be exceptional, and determined that it was in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and consistent with previous years.
co. uk 91 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the slow moving and obsolete inventory provision by testing the Inventory, accounts receivable and property Independent season ageing of inventory at the balance sheet date and then recalculating provisions the provision required with reference to the Group policy.
We also challenged Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 61, the critical accounting the Group policy for provision rates by reference to historical evidence of estimates and judgements in note 2 to the financial statements on page selling inventory below cost and or actual inventory write downs.
Auditors 111, note 22 for inventory, note 23 for accounts receivable and note 27 for We evaluated the provision for accounts receivable balances by testing provisions.
the ageing of amounts due at the balance sheet date to understand and The valuation of inventory involves judgement in determining provisions for quantify the potential risk in overdue balances.
Recoverability was then slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group accounting policy is based tested by vouching cash receipts after the year end date.
upon the ageing of inventory by season, with a percentage provision applied were past due and not yet recovered, we understood and challenged the which reflects the actual historical rate of losses made.
In addition, specific provision requirements with reference to that customers historic payment provisions are made for known product quality issues and product ranges performance, any credit insurance or bank guarantees in place, and the wider to the members of SuperGroup Plc which management consider are unlikely to be sold via regular clearance macro-economic situation.
This requires management judgement to assess the quality of the We evaluated the property-related provisions by testing managements products provided for and the expected realisable value.
assessment of the market rental valuations, as noted in the section above, Accounts receivable provisions involve judgement in determining the agreeing the onerous elements of lease agreements and amounts by recoverability of receivables.
Provisions are made for specific known issues which fixed assets were impaired to appropriate evidence, and agreeing such as counterparty risk.
managements assumptions in relation to future property rectification costs to the spend incurred during the year.
Property-related provisions involve judgement in determining the market value of store rentals, the extent to which certain leases are considered to We found that the provisions recorded were consistent with the evidence be onerous, and the expected value of rectification costs to be incurred on obtained.
leased properties when they are vacated.
co. uk 92 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we tailored the audit scope Strategic We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements Report as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which Independent the group operates.
Our Governance The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses within three segments, Retail, Wholesale and Central costs, plus its centralised functions.
Auditors Financial In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we identified four reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their Statements complete financial information both due to their size and risk characteristics: DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc the Company.
These reporting units were audited by the group engagement team.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of three non-significant reporting units, two located in the UK and one located in Germany, such that the audit work was complete prior to the finalisation of the Group financial statements.
The audits of three further to the members of SuperGroup Plc reporting units located in Belgium were conducted by the PwC network firm in Belgium.
We also conducted specific procedures on the US business, including attending year-end physical inventory observations and substantively testing revenue and the costs associated with the US business.
The audit work performed at these eleven reporting units, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the group level, including audit procedures over the consolidation and intangible asset impairment testing and in respect of accounting matters arising in relation to the revision of the fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities arising from the US business combination, as described in our area of focus above, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team was in contact, at each stage of the audit, with the PwC Belgium team through regular written communication in line with detailed instructions issued by the Group audit team and though holding a planning call.
In addition, the Group team discussed in detail the planned audit approach for the Belgian audit, were in attendance at local audit closing meetings and discussed and evaluated the detailed findings of that audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 3.6 million 2015: 3.2 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before income tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that underlying profit before income tax, provides a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million 2015: 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
co. uk 93 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Auditors As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were Report.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability to to the members of SuperGroup Plc continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 62, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to to report.
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 59, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
co. uk 94 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks Strategic Report that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Independent Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Our Governance the directors confirmation on page 44 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, material to add or to Auditors including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Financial Statements the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing managed or mitigated.
material to add or to Report.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc the directors explanation on page 49 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the We have nothing Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done material to add or to so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have draw attention to.
a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
co. uk 95 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors Independent As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 87, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs Auditors UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Report.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to the members of SuperGroup Plc What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 13 July 2016 www.
