46 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of SVG Capital plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: k SVG Capital plcs Group financial statements and the Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2016 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: k the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: k the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and k the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited SVG Capital plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 January 2016 ended 31 January 2016 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31January 2016 31January 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 January 2016 Company Balance Sheet as at 31 January 2016 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31January2016 31January2016 Related notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 29 to the financial statements Group constitutes SVG Capital Plc and its subsidiary SVGC Managers Limited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio misstatement Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of SVG Capital plc and its subsidiary, SVGCManagers Limited.
Materiality Group materiality of 10.5 million which represents 1% of total equity 2015: 11.1 million as at 31 January 2016.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 47 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identied the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed theprocedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation of the We performed the following procedures: Based on the work performed we are investment portfolio satisfied that the investment portfolio is k We obtained and confirmed our reasonably stated The valuation of the investment portfolio understanding of the valuation process at 31 January 2016 was 763 million through performing walkthrough with 2015: 1,053 million.
management, including discussions with key valuation team members.
The Groups investment portfolio mainly consists of unlisted investments.
k We agreed the net asset value of the The valuation process is highly judgemental underlying investments in the investment giving rise to significant risk of material portfolio to the latest audited financial misstatement.
The valuation of the assets statements and or quarterly reports as held in the investment portfolio is also the received from the relevant general key driver of the Companys net asset value partners or administrators.
Incorrect asset pricing k We reviewed the underlying financial could have a significant impact on portfolio information to assess whether valuation and, therefore, the return investments in the investment portfolio generated for shareholders.
were fair valued in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation IPEVC guidelines.
k We considered and re-performed appropriate roll forward procedures to 31January 2016 where the underlying investment fund information is prior to year-end date, for example agreeing cash movements, year-end FX rates and share prices of quoted securities to independent source.
48 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued The scope of our audit The Group operates from a single ofce and has common financial systems, processes and controls covering all of its operations.
Two legal entities account for 100% of the Groups revenue, operating profit, and total assets, one being the Parent Company itself, andall of which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended 31 January 2016.
The audit of all the companies within the Group is undertaken by one audit team.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 10.5 million 2015: 11.1 million, which is 1% of total equity as at 31 January 2016.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of total equity as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Group.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, being 7.9m 2015: 5.6m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.5 million 2015: 0.6 million as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 49 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: k the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and k the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
50 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions reporting information in the annual report is: to report.
k materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or k apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, ourknowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit:or k otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that weconsider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions reporting to report.
k adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or k the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or k certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or k we have not received all the information and explanations we require for ouraudit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements to report.
k the directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page 32 and 33, andlonger-term viability, set out on page 33: and k the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 51 Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of theentity ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to We have nothing reporting add or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or draw attention to.
k the directors conrmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: k the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: k the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and k the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
Andrew McIntyre Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 22 March 2016
