GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Synthomer plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 6.1 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Materiality Our group audit focused on twelve reporting units which were subject to audit procedures.
The reporting units where we performed audit procedures accounted for 93% of the Groups Audit revenue, 93% of the Groups operating profit and 92% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
scoping Acquisition of Hexion PAC.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Areas of focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
80 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order toprovide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be readin this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus ACQUISITION OF HEXION PAC We evaluated the process used by management to identify and On 30 June 2016 the Group completed the acquisition of Hexion valuetheassets and liabilities acquired.
We assessed the assets and PAC for consideration of 165.1 million, as described in Note 31. liabilities acquired and the fair value adjustments applied.
The fair value adjustments were considered appropriate.
IFRS 3 Business combinations IFRS 3 requires that all assets and liabilities acquired in the business combination are recorded We considered the Directors process for identifying the intangible at fair values on acquisition.
Judgement is required in identifying assetsacquired, considering the rationale for the acquisition and the and valuing all the assets and liabilities acquired, in particular nature oftheHexion PAC business.
Using our valuation specialists, we intangible assets which are recognised on acquisition and valuing assessed the valuation methodology used by the Directors in valuing the the acquired property, plant and equipment.
We evaluated the forecasts and data used and the key assumptions made.
Intangible assets totalling 22.0 million were identified relating to customer relationships.
The key judgements were in determining We compared the overall outcome compared to other approaches an appropriate methodology to value these assets and appropriate thatcould have been taken.
We were satisfied that the fair values assumptions, including forecast revenue and profit, discount rate oftheintangible and tangible assets were supportable, and that the and rates of obsolescence to determine the fair values.
assumptions used in valuing the assets were within an acceptable range.
Tangible assets relating to land, buildings and plant and machinery have been valued at 67.6 million.
The key judgements were in determining an appropriate methodology to value these assets, assessing current market values for similar assets, replacement costs and other valuation assumptions.
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION ACCOUNTING We obtained external actuarial reports of the UK and German As set out in Note 26 on page 118 the Group has significant schemes which set out the detailed calculations and assumptions defined benefit pension schemes.
These primarily represent the underpinning the year end pension scheme valuation.
We read these Yule Catto Group retirement benefits scheme in the UK and an reports and were satisfied that the scope of their work was such unfunded scheme in Germany, which account for 178.7 million of thatwe could use this work to provide evidence for the purpose the net pension deficit of 186.7 million recorded on the Group ofouraudit.
balance sheet at the year end.
We assessed the competency and objectivity of the external actuaries We focused on the pension liabilities in particular, as the amounts commissioned by the Group to perform the year end calculations by reflected in the financial statements for defined benefits schemes considering their technical expertise and independence from the Group.
are sensitive to relatively small changes in a few key assumptions We identified no concerns over their competency or objectivity.
such as the inflation rate, mortality tables and most notably, the discount rate applied.
We usedour own specialist actuarial knowledge to evaluate all the key assumptions used in each of the two schemes by comparing these The Group uses third party actuaries to calculate the amounts assumptions to our expectations for similar schemes as at the year end.
toreflect in the financial statements in respect of these schemes We found managements assumptions to be within an acceptable range.
and it is accordingly important for us to assess the work they perform and their competency to undertake the work in order toconclude on the results of their work.
PROVISIONS FOR UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS We used our tax specialists to assess the level of provisions held The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to againstvarious tax exposures and to consider the appropriateness arange of tax laws in a number of different tax jurisdictions.
In our assessment we had regard to the nature of Indetermining the amount to record at the year-end for tax theindividual exposures, including their origin, and any developments liabilities there is an element of judgement as to what amounts inthe year to assess the rationale for their continued validity at the willultimately be payable for assessed tax exposures.
As set out in Note 10 at 31 December 2016, the Group has As part of this work we inspected correspondence with tax authorities recorded current tax liabilities totalling 39.0 million.
A significant and the Groups tax advisors.
We challenged the judgements made by element of this tax liability relates to uncertain tax positions.
assessing individual provisions against our expectations of potential exposures, having regard to the facts of each case.
We focused on this area due to the size of the amounts involved and level of judgement needed to determine the estimated provisions.
No significant issues arose from this work to suggest that the judgements made and amounts recorded were inappropriate.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 81 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report plc continued to the members of Synthomer plc How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as awhole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
As set out on the inside front cover the Group reports its results as two segments: Europe and North America and Asia and the Rest of the World.
TheGroup financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, being holding companies, intermediate holding companies and twenty-eight operating companies, across sixteen countries.
Three countries being the UK, Germany and Malaysia account for the majority for the Groups results.
We accordingly focused our work on the five reporting units in these countries, which were subject to audits of their complete financial information.
In addition, to increase our coverage of the Groups revenues and underlying profit before tax we performed audit procedures at an additional three reporting units located in the UK, Italy and Finland and also the three key reporting units of the acquired Hexion PAC business, located in the UK, US and Czech.
These components accounted for 93% of the Groups revenue, 93% ofthe Groups operating profit and 92% of the Groups underlying operating profit.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The key reporting units in the UK, Germany and Malaysia were visited by senior members of the Group team during the audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 6.1 million 2015: 4.3 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We believe that underlying profit before tax, being profit before tax adjusted for special items, is the principal metric against which the Groups financial performance is measured in the Chairmans Rationale for benchmark applied and CEOs statements within the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 300,000 2015:200,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 78, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing thefinancial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
82 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate Governance section set out on pages 44 to 75 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance section set out on pages 44 to 75 with respect to the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required toreport if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance section.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 79, in accordance We have no exceptions to report.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 55, as required by We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 51 of the Annual Report, We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
inaccordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 83 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report plc continued to the members of Synthomer plc Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance section relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 79, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the auditedfinancial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Report of the Directors and Corporate Governance section, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and onthe information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
MATTHEW MULLINS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 6 March 2017 84 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016
