Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Report on the Group financial statements the notes to the consolidated financial involved in estimating and providing for the Our opinion statements, which include a summary of related restructuring costs incurred.
As In our opinion, Tate&LylePLCs significant accounting policies and other a result, we added the restructuring costs Group financial statements the Group explanatory information.
At the same time, financial statements : we removed the area of focus included last The financial reporting framework that has year relating to the carrying value of the give a true and fair view of the state of been applied in the preparation of the Group Sucralose assets, Groups SPLENDA the Groups affairs at 31 March 2016 and financial statements is IFRSs as adopted following the impairment recorded in of its profit and cash flows for the year by the European Union and applicable law.
Singapore in the prior year and the then ended: Our audit approach reduction in residual impairment risk given have been properly prepared in Context the better than expected performance of accordance with International The context of our audit was set by the SPLENDA Sucralose during FY16, which Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs significantly reduced the related audit risk.
Groups major activities in the year ended as adopted by the European Union: and 31 March 2016 FY16.
One of the Groups have been prepared in accordance with Following the implementation last year, most significant events of the last 12 the requirements of the Companies Act FY16 was the first full year that the months was its re-alignment of the 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Groups largest businesses operated on a Eaststarch joint venture.
This was therefore single instance of SAP.
Although the Group What we have audited added as a new area of focus for our audit continues to embed the functionality of SAP The Group financial statements comprise: given its inherent complexity, including and rationalise its control environment, the the consolidated statement of financial the allocation of consideration between inherent risk of the system implementation position at 31 March 2016: the acquisition and disposal components was greatest in the year of implementation the consolidated income statement and of the transaction: the gain on disposal: and so this was no longer included as a consolidated statement of comprehensive and the purchase price allocation for the specific area of focus for FY16.
income for the year then ended: acquired business in Slovakia.
the consolidated statement of cash Each of our other areas of focus were In addition, during FY16, as part of its flows for the year then ended: refined for certain developments in the business re-alignment strategy, the the consolidated statement of changes Group during FY16.
Group executed restructuring activities in in equity for the year then ended: and Singapore and Europe.
There was judgment Materiality Overall Group materiality: 10 million, which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations adding back the Groups share of tax of joint ventures and associates and exceptional items, which is our defined profit measure.
Audit scope Our audit included full-scope audits of six reporting components Tate&LylePLC, Materiality Tate&Lyle International Finance, the US Bulk Ingredients business, the US Speciality Food Ingredients business, Sucralose Singapore and Food Systems Germany with specified audit procedures performed at a further 12 reporting components.
Taken together, the components at which audit work was performed accounted for 85% of consolidated sales and 65% of profit as defined above.
This percentage is calculated on an absolute basis, which aggregates component profits and losses, ignoring sign convention.
Audit scope Our audit covered all components that individually contributed more than 4% of consolidated sales and profit.
Areas of focus Commodity risk: Re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture: Uncertain tax positions: Retirement benefit obligations: and Areas Restructuring costs incurred as a result of restructuring activities in Singapore of focus and Europe.
1 CONSOLIDATED SALES PROFIT Reporting Reporting components 85% components 65% Other Other components 15% components 35% 1 As defined above.
82 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
For each area of focus below, where appropriate, we evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key internal controls over financial reporting, including testing the operation of IT systems from which financial information is generated.
Although we did not identify any significant deficiencies in our controls testing, as the Group continues to enhance and embed an improved framework of financial controls, our audit remains primarily substantive.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commodity risk We understood and evaluated managements process for managing the Refer to Notes 2, 28 and 29 commodity price risk inherent within its commodity positions and compared it with managements underlying risk management and accounting policies.
The Groups accounting policy for its US business No matters were identified that would indicate that the risk management is to mark-to-market its commodity positions at and accounting policies were not being followed.
each balance sheet date, including its forward sales and purchase contracts with customers and grain We obtained managements forward pricing sheet for commodities used in suppliers.
In addition, certain commodity raw its mark-to-market calculations.
For those commodities with an actively material inventories are measured at net realisable traded market, we assessed the consistency of the forward prices with those value.
The Group manages the commodity price risk published by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
For those commodities where on sales and purchase contracts by taking long and an active futures market does not exist principally co-products and for the short positions and through the use of derivative basis adjustments made, we understood and challenged managements financial instruments, primarily futures and methodology for determining the valuations, including the inputs and options contracts.
To further assess the reasonableness of the forward prices estimated by management, we performed trend analyses against This was an area of focus due to the complexity of similar market or exchange traded commodities and compared certain the calculations and the judgment involved in the ratios of co-product prices against historical ratios.
valuation of certain commodities positions, most notably co-products that do not have an actively In addition to testing the forward price estimates, we audited the calculations traded futures market.
These co-products include of the fair value and associated unrealised gains and losses on the commoditycorn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and corn oil.
We found that managements forward price estimates Additionally, basis adjustments are made to certain and the calculations of fair value of positions were reasonable and supported commodity valuations to reflect market conditions, by market observable data, where appropriate.
Where management had which necessitate further management judgment.
calculated values by reference to non-market observable data, we found that these were within acceptable ranges.
The fair values of commodities pricing contracts as at 31 March 2016 were assets of 40 million For derivative financial instruments, including futures and options contracts, and liabilities of 21 million.
which were used to manage the commodity price risk, we independently confirmed these positions with the counterparty and recalculated the fair value of the positions held.
We found that the fair values of these derivative financial instruments were supported by the confirmations and recalculations.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 83 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture We obtained and read the sale & purchase agreement for the Eaststarch Refer to Note 34 re-alignment.
We verified that the accounting treatment adopted by management reflected the substance of the agreement.
We also vouched During the year, the Group completed the rethe receipt of the net proceeds received.
alignment of its Eaststarch joint venture, disposing of its interests in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary In conjunction with our own valuations specialists we met with management to Archer Daniels Midland ADM and at the and the third-party expert it had engaged to assist it with the determination same time acquiring the remaining 50% interest of the fair value of consideration, the allocation of the purchase price and the in Amylum Slovakia previously held by ADM, computation of the resultant gains recognised.
We found that the methodology bringing the Groups ownership to 100%.
applied and assumptions used were reasonable and were appropriately reflected in the resultant accounting.
We also found that the intangible assets As a result, the Group recognised an aggregate recognised by management and the fair value adjustments applied to other gain of 73 million and a business combination assets and liabilities were appropriate and their values, as well as the value for the acquisition of Amylum Slovakia.
of the resultant goodwill, were reasonable.
Given the complexities of the The acquisition and disposal transactions were transaction, we reviewed the associated disclosures included in the Group linked and negotiated together, with the Group financial statements in detail and found that they were compliant with receiving net cash proceeds of 173 million.
IFRS and a fair and balanced description of the re-alignment transaction.
Management engaged a third-party to assist it with the determination of the allocation of the net proceeds between the acquisition and disposal, as well as the purchase price allocation on the acquisition of Amylum Slovakia.
This was an area of focus due to the complexities of the transaction, including the judgment involved in the determination of the fair value of consideration paid for Amylum Slovakia, the purchase price allocation on acquisition and the calculation of the gain on the disposal.
Uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US and international tax and transfer pricing Refer to Notes 2 and 12 specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgments in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies, in order to assess The nature of the Groups multinational and the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This included obtaining a detailed cross-border operations exposes it to complicated understanding of the Groups key technical tax matters and risks related tax regulations.
This requires management to to business and legislative developments.
exercise judgment in determining the appropriate amount of tax to provide in respect of tax obligations We recalculated managements valuation of its tax provisions and determined in a number of jurisdictions.
In addition, certain whether the calculations were in line with the Groups methodology and financing arrangements that the Group has entered principles, and whether they had been applied on a basis consistent with into, while not uncommon or unduly aggressive, previous years.
We also examined managements ongoing analysis of its have previously been subject to enquiry by tax financing arrangements and considered recent correspondence with the authorities.
Changes in managements estimates tax authorities.
of the likely result of enquiries by tax authorities From the evidence obtained, we concluded that the level of provisioning could materially affect the quantum of tax was acceptable.
provisions recognised in the Group financial statements.
At 31 March 2016 the Group had recorded provisions for uncertain tax positions of 31 million 2015 29million.
84 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Retirement benefit obligations We understood and evaluated the assumptions used by the Groups Refer to Notes 2 and 30 actuaries and management in calculating the retirement benefit obligations for the defined benefit pension plans in the UK and the US and the unfunded The Group has significant retirement benefit retirement medical scheme in the US.
obligations in the UK and the US, including unfunded retirement medical plans in the US.
At 31 March In conjunction with our pensions specialists we challenged the actuarial 2016 the present value of these obligations was assumptions by comparing these against benchmark ranges based on the 1,634 million 2015 1,761 million offset by plan market conditions and expectations at 31 March 2016.
Based on our review assets at fair value of 1,426 million 2015 1,534 of the assumptions, in each case we found that the actuarial assumptions million in respect of funded schemes.
used were reasonable, sat within our acceptable range and were applied on a basis consistent with previous years.
These retirement benefit obligations were determined based on a number of actuarial In addition, we independently confirmed the pension assets held by the UK assumptions and calculations, which were subject and US schemes with the third-party custodians and fund managers.
We also to significant judgment and estimate.
Changes performed an independent assessment of these valuations and concluded in these assumptions can have a material impact that they were appropriate.
on the quantum of obligations recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Restructuring costs incurred as a result of We assessed the nature of each cost component identified as exceptional by restructuring activities in Singapore and Europe management and evaluated and challenged managements estimation of each Refer to Notes 7 and 32 cost, considering reasonably possible alternatives.
Where these costs related to the impairment of assets, we audited managements calculation of the Of the Groups restructuring initiatives undertaken recoverable amount.
We found that the costs recorded were appropriate and in FY16, the most significant were the closure of that their classifications as exceptional was reasonable.
the Singapore SPLENDA Sucralose facility and restructuring in Europe.
We obtained the breakdown of the restructuring provisions at 31 March 2016 and found the restructuring provisions to be reasonable.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 the Group recognised 33 million of exceptional costs relating to the closure of the Singapore SPLENDA Sucralose facility and 15 million relating to the restructuring of its European operations.
At 31March 2016 the Group recorded provisions of 14million for restructuring and closure activities.
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgments and estimates involved in determining the amount of provision and in ascertaining the appropriateness of classifying these items as exceptional.
How we tailored the audit scope In identifying these areas of focus, we tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to issue an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is primarily structured across two divisions: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, with a central support function.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the Groups reporting units, spread across the two divisions, which comprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions covering more than 250 individual components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components, in order to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included oversight visits and review of working papers at the Groups two significant components in the US and at the global Shared Service Centre in Poland.
We also attended the clearance meetings for these components.
In addition, we met with management in Singapore and the component audit team for Tate & Lyle Howbetter, and reviewed the audit work they performed.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 85 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 10 million 2015 10 million.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations 126 million adding back the Groups share of tax of joint ventures and associates 11 million and exceptional items 50 million, as defined in Note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations, which excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest from profit before tax PBTEA.
The Group adjusts for exceptional items as it believes that doing so is necessary to provide an understanding of financial performance.
We have not used PBTEA, as defined above, as our benchmark since the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest are recurring items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 2015 750,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the Directors on page 81, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 55, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
86 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Financial Statements | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: The Directors confirmation on page 31 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they We have nothing material to add or to are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, draw attention to.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and This report, including the opinions, through testing the effectiveness of explanations received has been prepared for and only for the controls, substantive procedures or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are parent companys members as a body in a combination of both.
required to report to you if, in our opinion, accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of In addition, we read all the financial and we have not received all the information the Companies Act 2006 and for no other non-financial information in the Annual and explanations we require for our audit.
We do not, in giving these Report to identify material inconsistencies We have no exceptions to report arising opinions, accept or assume responsibility with the audited financial statements from this responsibility.
for any other purpose or to any other person and to identify any information that is to whom this report is shown or into whose Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based hands it may come save where expressly Under the Companies Act 2006 we on, or materially inconsistent with, the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
are required to report to you if, in our knowledge acquired by us in the course opinion, certain disclosures of Directors What an audit of financial of performing the audit.
If we become remuneration specified by law are not statements involves aware of any apparent material made.
We have no exceptions to report An audit involves obtaining evidence misstatements or inconsistencies we arising from this responsibility.
about the amounts and disclosures in consider the implications for our report.
the financial statements sufficient to give Corporate governance statement Other matter reasonable assurance that the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required We have reported separately on the statements are free from material to review the part of the Corporate Parent Company financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud Governance Statement relating to the of Tate&LylePLC for the year ended or error.
This includes an assessment of: Parent Companys compliance with 31 March 2016 and on the information in ten provisions of the UK Corporate whether the accounting policies the Directors Remuneration Report that Governance Code.
We have nothing to are appropriate to the Groups is described as having been audited.
report having performed our review.
circumstances and have been John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor consistently applied and Responsibilities for the financial for and on behalf of adequately disclosed: statements and the audit  LLP the reasonableness of significant Our responsibilities and those of Chartered Accountants and Statutory accounting estimates made by the Directors Auditors the Directors: and As explained more fully in the Directors London the overall presentation of the Statement of Responsibilities set out on financial statements.
25 May 2016 page 81, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We primarily focus our work in these areas and for being satisfied that they give a true by assessing the Directors judgments and fair view.
against available evidence, forming our own judgments, and evaluating the Our responsibility is to audit and disclosures in the financial statements.
express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We test and examine information, using law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those sampling and other auditing techniques, standards require us to comply with to the extent we consider necessary to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical provide a reasonable basis for us to draw Standards for Auditors.
We obtain audit evidence Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 87
