Directors report: Governance STATUTORY, REGULATORY AND OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED In addition to the above, the Company also maintains two all-employee Modern Slavery Act share plans, namely, the Save As You Earn share option plan and the The Company welcomes the aims and objectives of the Modern Slavery Share Incentive Plan SIP, which are offered as widely as possible across Act 2015 and is taking its responsibilities under the Act very seriously.
Around half of our eligible employees participate in one or both dedicated team, assisted by external advisors, has reviewed our plans or are otherwise already shareholders of the Company.
businesses and our supply chain, so as to enable the Company to produce its first statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
It will be Equal opportunities available on our website at www.
co. uk We strive to treat our employees fairly and with respect at all times.
We have updated our relevant policies and processes during 2016 to ensure Charitable donations they remain current and relevant so that we continue to act in accordance We support charities and local groups in the communities where we with our vision, mission and values which encompass equal opportunities, operate.
We aim to make a positive impact through donations of time, anti-harassment and bullying, anti-corruption and whistleblowing.
We money and materials and through encouraging our people to get involved.
encourage our employees and subcontractors to speak up about We focus on smaller national charities as well as regional and local concerns over any wrongdoing at work and provide access to an organisations where we can have a significant impact and our employees independent reporting hotline service.
We prioritise causes that are relevant to our We remain committed to the belief that embracing diversity and inclusion business, the communities in which we operate, our business partners will enable Taylor Wimpey to succeed through a workforce that is creative and our people.
We continue to actively embrace the local communities in Our charitable donations are overseen and prioritised by our Charity which we operate and will strive to reect their richness and character, Committee, whose members include Anne Billson-Ross our Group including such aspects as gender, race and religion but also diversity of Human Resources Director, James Jordan our Group Legal Director and thought, background and experience.
Company Secretary as well as employees from across the business As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality of including our Group Financial Controller, Head of Sales and Marketing, opportunity in all of our employment practices, policies and procedures Communication Manager, Land Managers, Personal Assistants, Executive across the Group.
To this end, within the framework of applicable law, Secretaries and a graduate trainee.
we are committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining a Our focus areas are: workforce which broadly reects that of the local catchment area within which we operate.
aspiration and education: projects which promote aspiration and education in disadvantaged areas: No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, political tackling homelessness: intervening and improving homeless situations or other opinion, afliation, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, family for seriously economically disadvantaged groups in the UK: and connections, age, membership or non-membership of a trade union, or local projects: initiatives that have a direct link with our regional disability.
We are committed to making reasonable adjustments wherever businesses and developments.
In exceptional circumstances, for example due to health and We encourage our employees to get involved as volunteers and safety considerations on construction sites, some adjustments are not fundraisers.
This is good for charities who benefit from our peoples possible.
Instruction on equal opportunities is part of the induction expertise and enthusiasm, supports our employees personal and programme and diversity is also promoted through awareness training professional development and contributes to good employee engagement.
locally and by its inclusion as a business priority at presentations around the business.
During the year, Group companies donated 763,000 2015: 559,424 to various charities in the UK.
In addition, with the introduction of a new Our Diversity Policy can be found on the Companys website at Volunteering Policy, whereby employees are entitled to take up to four www.
co. uk corporate sustainability our-policies half-days or two full days paid leave per year, many employees at all levels around the country gave up their work and free time to participate in Employment of people with disabilities fundraising events for charitable causes including CentrePoint: The Youth It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair consideration Adventure Trust: and Crisis UK which raised a further 270,000. for all vacancies within the Group.
Further information on the Groups donations, activities and initiatives can The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring that be found in Our Business Model on page 25 and in the Sustainability people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply for Report 2016 which will shortly be available on the Companys website: employment and to achieve progress once employed.
so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity to be selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, every reasonable effort is made for disabled Political donations persons to be retained in the employment of the Group by investigating The Company has a policy of not making donations to political parties, and the possibility of making reasonable adjustments to the job, workplace has not made any this year and neither does it intend to make any going or equipment.
The Company does support certain industry-wide and trade We have increased the number of employees with disabilities recruited.
organisations which directly assist the house building industry such as the Working with key partners, we hope to increase more permanent and Home Builders Federation and the Confederation of British Industry.
Whilst secondment opportunities for people with disabilities.
we do not regard this support as political in nature in any way, the Companies Act 2006 denition of political organisations and related For example, we continue to engage with the Leonard Cheshire Disability terms is very wide and in certain circumstances a donation, subscription or Change 100 Programme, a charity that provides talented disabled membership fee paid to such organisations or to a charity could students with the opportunity to participate in a 100 day summer retrospectively be categorised as a political donation from a strict legal internship and professional development programme.
Accordingly, as a matter of prudent corporate governance, students who participated in the programme in 2016 has been very the Company will therefore be seeking the usual annual dispensation from positive and we intend to engage with the programme further during 2017. its shareholders at the 2017 AGM, so as to be able to continue with the 100 Taylor Wimpey plc above memberships and make charitable donations up to dened levels, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the without inadvertently breaching the applicable legislation.
corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Agreements dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Companys borrowing and bank facilities contain the usual change of control provisions which could potentially lead to prepayment and In accordance with Provision C. 1 of the Code, the Directors are required, cancellation by the other party upon a change of control of the Company.
inter alia, to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the There are no other significant contracts or agreements which take effect, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company performance, business model and strategy.
Details of how this was addressed are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 77.
Branches A subsidiary has a branch in Spain, the former activities of which were Responsibility statement taken over some years ago by our Spanish subsidiary Taylor Wimpey fide The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Espaa S. A. U. whose details appear on the inside back cover.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant Important events since the year end financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of its undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and Directors responsibilities statement performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced each financial year.
Accordingly, Directors are required to prepare the and understandable and provide the information necessary for Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and and strategy.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 United This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In accordance with 27 February 2017. company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: JAMES JORDAN Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Taylor Wimpey plc and prudent.
27 February 2017 State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
co. uk Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion: the Directors confirmation on pages 47 and 77 that they have carried the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 including those that would threaten its business model, future and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: performance, solvency or liquidity: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the disclosures on pages 42 to 47 that describe those risks and explain accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS how they are being managed or mitigated: as adopted by the European Union: the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements: and financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Directors explanation on page 47 as to how they have assessed The financial statements comprise: the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement the Consolidated Income Statement: as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and in respect of these matters.
notes 1 to 31 relating to the Consolidated financial statements and We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis 1 to 15 relating to the Parent Company financial statements.
of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted a going concern.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is Independence applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance Summary of our audit approach with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
The key risks that we identified in the current year were inventory costing and margin recognition, the net realisable value of inventory, and defined Our assessment of risks of material misstatement benefit pension scheme accounting.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those The materiality that we used in the current year was 36.0 million which that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of was determined on the basis of pre-tax profit for the year, excluding resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These risks remain consistent with the prior period, with the exception of revenue recognition which has been excluded in the current period Based on our scoping assessment, our group audit has been primarily following our reassessment of the areas which significantly influence the focused on the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures, with our allocation of resources in our audit.
For the risks reported, we have further Spanish component auditors reporting to us on the risk in relation to the refined the significant judgements and related procedures performed in the net realisable value of the inventory located in Spain.
Further details of how materiality was calculated and how we determine As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also the scoping of the audit is provided below.
evaluate the design and implementation of internal controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer term viability of the Group contained within the Risk Section on page 47.
102 Taylor Wimpey plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We tested a sample of sites as part of our visits to the Groups business Inventory Costing units.
As part of these visits we tested the operating effectiveness of Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report page 114 Critical accounting controls in relation to: judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 125 the preparation and approval of site budgets: Financial statements disclosures.
the regular review meetings where Management reviews actual costs The value for inventory as at 31 December 2016 is 3,984.0 million 2015: against detailed site budgets: and 3,891.2 million and as such is the most significant value on the Balance the approval of journal transfers to allocate costs across sites or phases Sheet page 108.
Inventory comprises land and work in progress WIP : of a sites development.
WIP is made up of the construction cost of developing a site, and is transferred to cost of sales as each legal completion takes place.
We have also performed substantive testing as noted below: The Groups cost allocation framework determines the profit forecasted For a sample of sites we have analysed completions in the period and for each site, and acts as a method of allocating land and build cost of compared the achieved margin to the initial equalised margin determined a development to each individual plot.
This cost allocation framework at the date of setting the site budget.
Where differences fell outside of an drives the recognition of costs as each plot is sold.
We consider the acceptable threshold, we performed corroborative inquiries with appropriate margin recognition across the life of the site to be an area Management and obtained evidence supporting the variance.
Through the use of IT interrogation techniques, we have analysed journal postings being made to the inventory balances to highlight any items There is significant judgement in: which potentially should have been recorded as an expense.
Additionally, estimating the selling price and build costs included within the initial we have tested WIP additions to the inventory balance to determine site budget.
This is due to the inherent judgement relating to external whether the costs have been appropriately capitalised, by tracing these factors such as future selling prices, the availability of mortgages and through to supporting invoices.
build cost inflation: We have analysed cost per square foot of plots sold at a regional business appropriately allocating costs such as shared infrastructure costs so unit level for the current year and compared this to cost per square foot in that the gross profit margin in % terms achieved on each individual previous years, to analyse for any unusual trends which require plot is equal: and corroboration from Management.
recording the cost when deviation from the initial budget occurs We have also performed a review of sites where the initial site budget was and ensuring they are appropriately spread across the remainder created a number of years ago.
Given the age of these sites, we held of the development.
inquiries with Management where additional costs have not been These judgements impact the carrying value of inventory in the balance recognised, or where savings are assumed.
sheet and therefore the profit recognised on each plot sold.
For a sample of sites tested, we have reviewed the total excesses and savings balance identified for each given site, and through recalculation of the expected income statement impact based on the number of legal completions in the year, we have determined that the excesses and savings have been appropriately allocated and recognised.
Management has conducted a detailed exercise in assessing the carrying Net realisable value of inventory value of inventory.
This exercise is undertaken by each regional business Refer to page 77 Audit Committee report, page 114 Critical accounting unit and then subject to review and challenge by Head Office Management.
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 125 We assess the process by which Management estimates the level of any Financial statements disclosures.
provision that is required and the inputs that form part of this.
At the balance sheet date the Group held gross inventory of 285.3 million We tested the inventory NRV model and critically assessed the judgements 2015: 343.6 million, which had associated impairments of 147.0 million that had been made.
During the year the Group recorded a net checking the arithmetic accuracy of the calculations within the model exceptional expense of 0.5 million 2015: net exceptional expense of and identifying any anomalies: 0.6 million due to developments in the year relating to site specific performing a sensitivity analysis on the key judgements relating to the factors.
The net addition in the inventory provision has been recognised future expected sales price and costs to complete: as an exceptional item.
assessing the estimated sales prices used by Management by testing The carrying value of inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable the historical sales prices that have been achieved: value NRV is dependent on key judgements and estimates that are made testing a sample of inputs into the Management prepared model by by Management.
The cyclical nature of the industry, combined with the reference to internal site specific information such as the costs incurred inherent judgements involved in forecasting increases the risk of estimation to date and the estimation of costs required to complete the sites: error.
Such judgements and estimates include: obtaining evidence to support the current status of a sample of sites, an estimation of expected sales prices, which are based on recent including agreeing to planning consent and assessing whether the site sales prices achieved: specific developments are reflected in the valuation: an estimation of costs to complete: for sites where there has been a release or write-back we have obtained the outcome of applications for planning consent: and the specific calculation prepared by Management, corroborated the the consideration of other site-specific factors.
specific developments at the site that led to the release write-back and recalculated the value that should have been recorded as income: and Changes to these assumptions could result in a material change in the we engage with internal specialists who are quantity surveyors to assess carrying value of inventory and the associated movements recorded in the the costs to complete included within a sample of models and whether, income statement.
We assess the sites forecasting or achieving lower margins to be the most susceptible to impairment, as minor changes in based on this specialists opinion, the assumptions used by Management are reasonable.
the estimates above could impact the provision required.
We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures regarding the carrying value of land, work in progress and the write-off to inventory.
