o INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM price through alternative clearance routes, together with OUR AUDIT the related margins achieved for each channel in order to gain comfort that stock has not been sold below cost: and 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL Assessing the appropriateness of the provision percentages STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED applied by challenging the assumptions made by the We have audited the financial statements of Ted Baker Plc Directors on the extent to which older season inventory for the 52 week period ended 30 January 2016 set out on pages can be sold through various channels.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 disclosures in respect of the levels of provisions against inventory.
January 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared VALUATION OF RETAIL STORE ASSETS in accordance with International Financial Reporting LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as Refer to page 25 Audit Committee statement, adopted by the EU : page 72 accounting policy note and page 87 to 88 financial the parent company financial statements have been statement disclosures.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by The risk: The Group invests a significant amount of capital the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of included in non-current assets on the balance sheet both the Companies Act 2006: and within and outside the UK in its retail store portfolio through the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with leasehold improvements.
The net carrying value of leasehold the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards improvements at 30 January 2016 was 42.3m.
There is a risk that the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the carrying value of retail store leasehold improvements may be overstated if the profitability expectations for the related stores 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL are adversely impacted by trading and other conditions that were MISSTATEMENT not anticipated in the initial business case.
The level of judgement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial involved in assessing impairment indicators on retail stores is one statements the risks of material misstatement that had the of the key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Our response: Our audit procedures were designed to challenge whether there were any indicators of impairment VALUATION OF INVENTORY and the need for any provisions against the asset carrying value Refer to page 25 Audit Committee statement, and included: page 72 accounting policy note and page 90 financial Comparing the performance of stores against expected statement disclosures.
profitability measures and understanding any material The risk: Inventory is carried in the financial statements variances.
This assessment is undertaken for all stores at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The net carrying regardless of the period of time the store has been open.
value of inventory at 30 January 2016 was 125.3m.
Sales in This analysis is used to identify those stores performing the fashion industry can be extremely volatile with consumer below expectations and accordingly with leasehold demand changing significantly based on current trends.
As a improvements at a greater risk of impairment: result there is a risk that the carrying value of inventory exceeds Where there is a material adverse variance, we considered its net realisable value.
whether this was an indicator of impairment given our Our response: Our audit procedures were designed to understanding of the maturity of the brand in the relevant challenge the adequacy of the Groups provisions against region, the period for which the store has been open and inventory by seasonal collection and included: comparison of performance to the original business case Corroborating on a sample basis that items on the stock for that particular store: ageing listing by season were classified in the appropriate Where there are indicators of impairment, reviewing ageing bracket: the cash flow forecasts for that store to ensure that the We examined the groups historical trading patterns of recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the inventory sold at full price and inventory sold below full leasehold improvements.
61 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o o INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY This includes: 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN testing the accuracy of the calculations: OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT assessing the key assumptions including growth rates in The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole turnover and margin expectations by reference to historic was set at 2.8m determined with reference to a benchmark of rates achieved, the accuracy of previous forecasts and group profit before tax of which it represents 4.8%.
our understanding of the maturity of the brand in the We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or particular region: uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 140,000 considering the appropriateness of the discount rates impacting the income statement and balance sheet applied by benchmarking against other comparable groups reclassifications in addition to other identified misstatements and assessing the key assumptions applied within the that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Companys adjusted WACC against available external Of the groups 23 reporting components, the group audit market data: and team subjected four UK components to an audit for group applying sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions used reporting purposes and the three US components to specified in the cash flow forecasts to assess the possible range of risk focused audit procedures performed by component auditors outcomes and the overall risk of any material impairment.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of impairment of retail fixed assets.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the groups results: NUMBER OF GROUP GROUP PROFIT TOTAL COMPONENTS REVENUE BEFORE TAX ASSETS Audits for group reporting purposes 4 67% 82% 67% Specified risk focused audit procedures 3 24% 9% 23% Total 7 91% 91% 90% For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an 4.
OUR OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
IS UNMODIFIED The Group audit team instructed component auditors in the In our opinion: US as to the significant areas to be covered, including where relevant the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with The UK components audits were covered by the Group team.
The the Companies Act 2006: and Group audit team approved the components materialities which the information given in the Strategic Report and the ranged from 2.1m - 2.7m, having regard to the mix of size and Directors Report for the financial year for which the risk profile of the Group across the components.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Telephone conference meetings were held with component financial statements.
The Group team discussed the audit strategy and the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS team was then performed by the component auditors.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors viability statement on page 18, Concerning the principal risks, their management, and based on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the next three years to 2019: or the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
62 o o INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC ONLY 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT IN RESPECT SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Statement set out on page 59, the Directors are responsible Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to for the preparation of the financial statements and for being you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of we have identified other information in the annual report that the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that auditscopeukprivate.
This report is made solely to the Companys is otherwise misleading.
members as a body and is subject to important explanations In particular, we are required to report to you if: and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our we have identified material inconsistencies between the website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be statement that they consider that the annual report and read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Robert Brent Senior Statutory Auditor performance, business model and strategy: or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditors the Audit Committee Statement does not appropriately Chartered Accountants address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
15 Canada Square, London, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report E14 5GL to you if, in our opinion: 17 March 2016 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on pages 59, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 19 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
63 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o Dapare Dandifica
