Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc Opinion on Financial Statements of In our opinion the Financial Statements: Templeton Emerging Markets Investment give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March Trust Plc 2016 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act2006.
The Financial Statements comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Cash Flow Statement, the Accounting Policies, and the related notes 1 to 16.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
Going concern and the Directors As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement assessment of the principal risks that regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting would threaten the solvency or liquidity contained within accounting policy a of the Financial Statements and the of the Company Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained on pages16to 17.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors' confirmation on page 17 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 95 to 100 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in accounting policy a of the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: the Directors explanation on page 17 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Company and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of The assessed risks of material misstatement described are those that had the materialmisstatement greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
78 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation and ownership of investments We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: For the year ended 31 March 2016 the investments of the Company 1,482m 2015: 1,941m make up critically assessed the design and implementation 95% 2015: 95% of total net assets 1,562m 2015: of the controls over valuation and ownership of 2,045m.
Please see Accounting Policy f and note 5. investments: Investments listed on recognised exchanges are valued at agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments the closing bid price at the year end.
on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: There is a risk that investments may not be valued correctly or may not represent the property of the Company.
agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year end to confirmation received directly from the custodian and depositary: and evaluated a report prepared by the Manager on the design and operation of controls at the custodian.
Revenue recognition, completeness and cut off We have performed the following procedures to address this risk: For the year ended 31 March 2016 income from investments is 44.7m 2015: 58.8m.
Please see critically assessed the design and implementation of note1.
controls relating to revenue recognition at the Manager: The Company invests in Emerging Markets where there is a tested cut off around the balance sheet date by testing risk that not all dividend information is captured in a timely post year-end receipts: and manner and, as a result, revenue maybe incomplete or selected a sample of investments, obtained ex dividend recognised in the incorrect period.
dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts to the income received report and Bank Statement.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 74 to 76.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 15.6m 2015: 20.4m, which is 1% 2015: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 312,000 2015: 409,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in place at the Manager who prepares the Financial Statements of the Company.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 79 Independent Auditors Report continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by In our opinion: the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our and accounting records opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required the Annual Report to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
80 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directorsand auditor Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in FinancialStatements the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 8 June 2016 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 81
