Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC Opinion on financial statements of Tesco PLC We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern In our opinion: basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material the financial statements give a true and fair view of the uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the as at 27 February 2016 and of the Groups profit for the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Independence in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are the Parent Company financial statements have been properly independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Disclosure Framework: and services referred to in those standards.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below the IAS Regulation.
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of The financial statements comprise the Group income statement, the engagement team.
the Group statement of comprehensive income loss, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent The Audit Committee requested that whilst not currently required Company statements of changes in equity, the Group cash flow under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we statement, and the related Notes 1 to 34 of the Group financial include in our report any key observations in respect of these statements and Notes 1 to 17 of the Parent Company financial assessed risks of material misstatement, in anticipation of the EU statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been Regulations which will require such disclosure from the Groups applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements 2017 18 financial year.
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in The description of the risks below should be read in conjunction the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements with the significant matters considered by the Audit Committee is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards discussed on page 46.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, Going concern and the Directors assessment of the and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group The key risks we identified are: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors store impairment review: statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern recognition of commercial income: basis of accounting contained within the Directors report and inventory valuation and provisions: the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group pension obligation valuation and accounting for the contained within the strategic report on page 27. pensioncurtailment: provisions and reserves in Tesco Bank: We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: compliance with laws and regulations: the Directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried management override of controls: and out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, retail technology environment, including IT security.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 24 to 27 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in Note 1 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Store impairment review As described in Note 1 accounting policies and Our audit procedures included testing the design and We note that cash Note 11 property, plant and equipment, the Group implementation of key controls around the impairment flow forecasting, held 17,900m 2014 15: 20,440m of property, review processes and assessing the appropriateness of impairment modelling plant and equipment at 27 February 2016. the methodology applied by the Directors in calculating and property values the impairment charges, and the judgements applied in are all inherently In light of the continued competitive environment determining the cash generating units CGUs of the judgemental.
in which the Group operates, there is a risk that the business, which the Group has determined as being Nevertheless, whilst carrying value of stores and related fixed assets may individual stores and, in the UK, the general we note further be higher than the recoverable amount.
actions are required review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable by the Group to amount is determined based on the higher of In relation to the completeness of the Groups achieve these value in use and fair value less costs of disposal: impairment review process, we have assessed the forecasts over the completeness of the Groups impairment charges medium term, we value in use is calculated from cash flow and impairment reversals with reference to concluded that the projections for five years using data from the CGU performance.
assumptions applied Groups internal forecasts and as such relies in the impairment upon the Directors assumptions, such as In relation to the Groups value in use valuations, we models were within the estimates of future trading performance, have assessed the review completed by the Group by: an acceptable longer-term growth rates and discount rates range, and that utilised: and assessing the methodology applied in determining the overall level fair value less costs of disposal, reflecting the value in use compared with the requirements of net impairment the market valuation of the Groups stores of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and checking the recognised less costs which would be incurred on disposal, integrity of the impairment model utilised by was reasonable.
is determined on a sample basis by independent the Group: valuation specialists where appropriate.
challenging the key assumptions utilised in the We also agree that the cash flow forecasts with reference to historical disclosure of the net As a result of the Groups impairment review trading performance, market expectations and our impairment as an completed during the year, an impairment charge understanding of the Groups strategic initiatives: exceptional item is of 18m 2014 15: 4,116m was recognised.
assessing the long-term growth rates and discount in accordance with rates applied to the impairment review for each the Groups policy country, comparing the rates utilised to third party on exceptional items evidence and in relation to the discount rate, our and is reasonable.
independently estimated discount rates: and completing sensitivity analysis in relation to key assumptions to consider the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired, in particular relating to forecast future cash flows, including any sub-lease income received, long-term growth rates and discount rates applied.
In relation to the Groups fair value less costs of disposal, we have challenged the assumptions used by the Group in determining the fair market value of the assets, including those completed by external valuers, using internal property valuation specialists and assessing whether appropriate valuation methodologies have been applied.
78 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Recognition of commercial income As described in Note 1 accounting policies, In completing our work, we obtained a detailed The results of including disclosure within use of assumptions understanding of the work completed by Tesco, our testing were and estimates disclosure to the financial together with obtaining an understanding and satisfactory.
statements, the Group has agreements with evaluating the design and implementation of controls suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, that the Group has established in relation to commercial We consider the promotional and marketing allowances and income.
This included testing the completeness and disclosure given various other fees and discounts are received accuracy of the systematic inputs upon which the around supplier in connection with the purchase of goods for Groups controls rely, such as sales volume data.
rebates to provide resale from those suppliers.
As such, the Group an appropriate recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of In addition, our substantive audit procedures across understanding of amounts receivable from suppliers for goods sold.
the Groups retail operations included a combination the types of rebate of the following: income received In accordance with IFRS, commercial income and the impact should only be recognised as a deduction from we tested that amounts recognised were accurate on the Groups cost of sales within the income statement when and recorded in the correct period based on the balance sheet as at the performance conditions associated with it contractual performance obligations by agreeing 27 February 2016. have been met.
As such, judgement exists in a sample of individual supplier agreements.
We determining the period over which the reduction circularised a sample of suppliers to test whether in cost of sales should be recognised, requiring the arrangements recorded were complete and both a detailed understanding of the contractual interviewed a sample of buyers to supplement our arrangements in addition to complete and accurate understanding of the contractual arrangements.
source data on purchase volumes and fulfilment Where responses were not received, we completed of promotional programmes.
alternative procedures such as agreement to underlying contractual arrangements: In light of the accounting errors identified in the we used data analytics to profile commercial prior year in this area, the Group completed a income, identifying key risk deals upon which detailed internal review of the factors which gave we completed detailed testing: and rise to these errors and the controls associated with we reviewed Groceries Supply Code of Practice the recognition of commercial income amounts.
GSCOP reporting and correspondence to the supplier hotline in order to help identify any areas where further investigation was required.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Inventory valuation and provisions As described in Note 1 accounting policies and We tested the operating effectiveness of controls The results of our Note 15 inventories, the Group carries inventory associated with the existence and condition of inventory audit work were at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As at by attending a sample of inventory counts throughout satisfactory and 27 February 2016, the Group held inventories of the year in all significant locations including stores and we concur with 2,430m 2014 15: 2,957m.
Across the Group, we attended the nature of costs 222 inventory counts within stores and 28 inventory capitalised within The Group applies particular judgement in the counts within distribution centres.
the inventory balance following areas relating to inventory: and the level of We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of provision held.
following changes in the Groups inventory managements assumptions applied in calculating the provisioning methodology in the prior year, value of inventory provisions by: In relation to the the Group provides for obsolescence based inventory provisioning on forecast inventory usage.
This methodology critically assessing the Groups inventory policy, we concur relies upon assumptions made in determining provisioning policy, with specific consideration that the total level appropriate provisioning percentages categories given to aged inventory especially for non-food and of provision is within of inventory: and general merchandising products as well as stock an acceptable range.
the Group capitalises certain directly turn calculations including the impact of seasonality: attributable overheads within the cost of verifying the value of a sample of inventory to inventory.
These overheads relate to the confirm it is held at the lower of cost and net costs incurred in bringing inventory to its final realisable value, through comparison to vendor destination for sale and in line with normal invoices and sales prices: market practice includes the costs associated using data analytics in relation to the UK business with the Groups distribution centres.
to recalculate the provision based on the Groups provisioning policy: and In addition, given the overall level of inventory reviewing historical accuracy of inventory across the business in multiple locations, we provisioning with reference to inventory write-offs identified the existence of inventory to be a during the year in relation to stock loss or other further area of focus for our audit work.
In relation to the capitalisation of directly attributable costs, we assessed the nature of costs capitalised and for a sample of individual products, assessing whether costs had been correctly allocated.
Pension obligation valuation and accounting for the pension curtailment As described in Note 1 accounting policies and In relation to the pension curtailment gain, we have From the work Note 26 post-employment benefits, the Group has a assessed the basis of the gain recognised and tested completed, we defined benefit pension plan in the UK.
At 27 February the integrity of the calculation.
are satisfied that 2016, the Group recorded a net retirement obligation the methodology of 3,175m 2014 15: 4,842m, comprising scheme In testing the pension valuation and curtailment gain, and assumptions assets of 10,302m 2014 15: 9,677m and scheme we have utilised internal pension actuarial specialists to applied in relation liabilities of 13,477m 2014 15: 14,519m.
review the key actuarial assumptions used, both financial to determining the and demographic, and considered the methodology pension valuation During the period, the Group closed the UK scheme utilised to derive these assumptions.
Furthermore, we and curtailment gain to new entrants and future accrual and replaced it have benchmarked and performed a sensitivity analysis are appropriate.
with a new defined contribution scheme.
As such, on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
a curtailment gain of 538m 2014 15: nil has We also agree that been recognised and treated as an exceptional We tested the membership data utilised in the valuation the disclosure of the item, offset by one-off payments of 58m relating of the schemes to assess whether the basis of the curtailment gain as to auto-enrolment and top-up payments to the valuation is appropriate.
an exceptional item new contribution defined contribution scheme.
is in accordance with Furthermore, we have assessed the disclosure of the the Groups policy The pension valuation and associated curtailment curtailment gain as an exceptional item.
on exceptional items gain is dependent on market conditions and and is reasonable.
key assumptions made, in particular relating to investment markets, discount rate, inflation expectations and life expectancy assumptions.
The setting of these assumptions is complex and requires the exercise of significant management judgement with the support of third party actuaries.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Provisions and reserves in Tesco Bank As described in Note 1 accounting policies We have tested the design and implementation of As a result of our and Note 22 financial risk factors and Note key controls relating to loan impairment provisioning, work, we concluded 24 provisions, the Group is required to make conduct risk provisioning and insurance reserving.
that the provisions a number of complex judgements relating to In addition, we have challenged the judgements and reserves held by provisions and reserves held by Tesco Bank, taken by management, specifically: Tesco Bank in relation specifically in relation to: to loan impairment in relation to loan impairment provisioning, using provisions, conduct loan impairment provisioning, where internal specialists, we tested a sample of the data risk provisions and judgements include estimating the level used in the models as well as testing the model insurance reserving of impaired loans and the expected cash methodology and calculations.
recoveries thereon: whether the modelling assumptions used conduct risk provisioning, where judgements considered all relevant risks, and whether the are required in relation to assessing the level additional adjustments to reflect un-modelled risks of provision required in relation to historical were reasonable in light of historical experience, payment protection insurance and the economic climate, current operational processes Consumer Credit Act redress programme: and and the circumstances of the customers as well insurance reserving in light of the Groups as our own knowledge of other practices: and exposure to insurance claims through its in relation to conduct risk provisioning, we investment in Tesco Underwriting Limited.
challenged the adequacy of provisions recognised by critically assessing the key assumptions used in the provision models, comparing the assumptions to available peer and historical data.
This work also included, amongst other things, reviewing regulatory correspondence and the banks complaint logs as well as comparing the banks position with our own knowledge and experience: and in relation to insurance reserving, using internal insurance specialists, we have understood the key judgements and assumptions used to estimate the level of claims reserves.
Compliance with laws and regulations In light of the ongoing investigation by the In assessing the potential exposures to the Group, From the work Serious Fraud Office SFO in the UK following we have completed a range of procedures including: completed, we concur the commercial income misstatements identified with managements in the prior year see page 46 of the Audit assessing the design and implementation of position that no Committee report and Note 31 commitments and controls in relation to the monitoring of known provision is required contingencies of the Group financial statements, legal exposures: and that the the Group has a number of potential litigation and reading Board and other meeting minutes to disclosures provided other exposures for which the outcome is uncertain.
identify areas subject to Group consideration: are appropriate.
meeting with the Groups internal legal advisors As a result, judgement is required in assessing the in understanding ongoing and potential legal nature of these exposures and their accounting and matters impacting the Group: disclosure requirements.
reviewing third party correspondence with external legal advisors, regulators and GSCOP: and reviewing the proposed accounting and disclosure of actual and potential legal liabilities, drawing on third party assessment of open matters.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 81 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Management override of controls There are a number of areas within the Groups In order to address this risk, in addition to the procedures From our work financial statements which comprise accounting set out in the commercial income, impairment and completed, we have estimates by management and accordingly there inventory risks set out above, we have completed audit no matters to highlight is a risk that the Groups results are influenced procedures including: in these areas.
through management bias in determining such estimates.
assessing the design and implementation of However, we note that controls which address the risk of management consistent with other Specifically this risk lies in those areas with high override, such as the overall entity level controls businesses of a similar levels of judgement such as commercial income, which underpin the overall control environment scale to the Group, value-in-use calculations within the impairment for the Group: there are offsetting reviews, inventory accounting and provisioning.
auditing key areas of management estimate and non-recurring income judgement, including consideration of exceptional and expense items Furthermore, the presentation of non-GAAP items disclosed by the Group and the existence of included within measures is judgemental, with IFRS only requiring any further potential exceptional items included underlying profit separate presentation of material items.
Management within the Groups underlying profit measures: which do not meet the judgement is therefore required in determining the using data analytics, tested journal entries for fraud Groups definition of classification of exceptional items.
characteristics by testing the completeness of the exceptional items.
We journal population reviewed and risk profiling the concur that these have population to focus our work on journals of interest: been appropriately assessing transactions completed outside of the included within normal course of business: and underlying profit as obtaining an understanding of the work of internal they do not distort the audit so as to assist us in directing our audit effort overall result reported.
and obtain greater understanding of the controls in place across the Group.
Retail technology environment, including IT security The Groups retail operations utilise a range We tested the design and operating effectiveness We identified of information systems where we identified of the Groups controls over the information systems weaknesses in relation deficiencies in certain controls at the IT that are important to financial reporting and identified to user access and infrastructure level.
These could have an weaknesses in the control environment.
change management adverse impact on the Groups controls controls in relation and financial reporting systems.
Where these deficiencies affected applications and to the Groups retail databases within the scope of our audit, we completed financial reporting a combination of controls and substantive testing in systems and which the order to determine whether we could place reliance on company is addressing the completeness and accuracy of system generated as detailed within the information, including: Audit Committee Report on page 47. determined whether authorised inappropriate changes had been made to the affected databases Where these and IT application systems: and deficiencies affected assessed the design and operating effectiveness applications and of any controls that mitigated the identified risks.
systems within the scope of our audit, we In addition, and where appropriate, we extended the completed additional scope of our substantive audit procedures.
substantive testing in order to assess the completeness and accuracy of system generated information.
82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Last year the previous auditors report included two other risks support for the Groups core retail operations.
Each local finance which are not included in our report this year: commercial income function reports into the central Group finance function based impact on prior periods there have been no such adjustment at the Groups head office.
Based on our assessment of the Group, recognised in the current period and impairment of investments we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work on in associated undertakings following the impairment recognised nine retail locations United Kingdom, Ireland, Czech Republic, in the prior period, we do not believe that this risk requires Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Turkey, Malaysia and Thailand, Tesco separate identification.
All of these were subject to a full audit and represent 97% of the Groups revenue.
There are two new risks which have been detailed above in the current year: pension obligation valuation and accounting In addition, four other businesses in the United Kingdom were for the pension curtailment following the closure of the subject to specific audit procedures on material account balances, Groups UK defined benefit scheme to future accrual during where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the year and IT environment, including IT security in light of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the the identified weaknesses in relation to user access and change Groups operations at those locations.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process Our application of materiality and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic aggregated financial information of the remaining components decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
The most significant component of the Group is its retail business in the United Kingdom.
As such, there is extensive overlap We determined materiality for the Group to be 50m between the Group and United Kingdom audit team to ensure 2014 15: materiality determined by the previous auditor of an appropriate level of involvement in this audit work.
Professional judgement was applied in determining an the course of our audit, we visited 75 retail stores in the United appropriate level of materiality and we considered a number of Kingdom to attend either inventory counts or in order to complete profit based and other measures with reference to the Groups store control visits, and seven distribution centre inventory counts.
We have concluded that it was appropriate to determine materiality with reference to the Groups average Since this was our first year as the Groups auditor, we visited 10 profitability over a three year period 2013 14, 2014 15 and of the 11 significant locations set out above at least twice and the 2015 16, adjusted for exceptional items.
least significant of those locations once, in addition to the Groups shared service centre in Bengaluru, with the Group Audit Partner In our professional judgement, we believe that the use of an visiting four of these locations.
We also had a dedicated audit adjusted profit measure is appropriate as the amounts which partner focussed on overseeing the role of the component audit have been excluded from the Groups profit before tax are teams located outside of the UK and Ireland, ensuring that we one-off items which would otherwise skew the level of materiality applied a consistent audit approach to the operations in the determined and are not reflective of the Groups trading activity.
The audit visits by the Group audit However, we capped the materiality determined to that applied team were timed to enable us to be involved during the transition, by the previous auditor in the prior year in light of the Groups planning and risk assessment process in addition to during the lower level of profit in the current year and as a result of 2015 16 completion of detailed audit procedures.
During our visits, we being our first year of appointment.
attended key meetings with component management and auditors, and reviewed detailed component auditor work papers.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5m 2014 15: In addition, all key component audit teams were represented during a centralised two-day planning meeting held in the 2.5m determined by the previous auditor, as well as differences United Kingdom following our appointment and prior to the below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on commencement of our detailed audit work.
The purpose of this qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on planning meeting was to ensure a good level of understanding disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall of the Groups businesses, its core strategy and a discussion presentation of the financial statements.
of the significant risks and workshops on our planned audit approach.
Group management also attended to support these An overview of the scope of our audit planning activities.
Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, Going forward, we will continue to visit all key components at least and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group on an annual basis.
Following the disposal of the Groups business in Korea, the Group has wholly-owned grocery retail operations in nine countries, together with interests in a number of other businesses both in the United Kingdom and internationally.
The Groups accounting process is structured around local finance functions and is further supported by a shared service centre in Bengaluru, India which provides accounting and administrative Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 83 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Opinion on other matters prescribed Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor by the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, In our opinion: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Act 2006: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the information given in the strategic report and the Directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also report for the financial year for which the financial statements comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood Matters on which we are required to report and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our by exception dedicated professional standards review team and independent Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records partner reviews.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a we have not received all the information and explanations body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies we require for our audit: or Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent state to the companys members those matters we are required Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
received from branches not visited by us: or To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Parent Company financial statements are not in assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys Corporate Governance Statement circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from non-financial information in the annual report to identify material our review.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we in the annual report is: consider the implications for our report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor in the course of performing our audit: or London, United Kingdom otherwise misleading.
12 April 2016 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
84 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
