98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC OUR AUDIT APPROACH REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion Context In our opinion: Thomas Cook Group plc is a British global travel company listed on Thomas Cook Group plcs Group financial statements and company the London Stock Exchange.
The Group operates from approximately financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair 15 source locations across Europe.
The context for our audit has view of the state of the Groups and of the companys affairs as at been set against the continued execution of the Groups strategy to 30 September 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the become more resilient and focused on profitable growth, through a companys cash flows for the year then ended: New Operating Model, given the effect of external factors and events the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in which impact the travel industry as a whole.
We took these factors accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards into account in the work we performed.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The areas of audit focus where work performed by component teams the company financial statements have been properly prepared in was most relevant were the recoverability of hotel prepayments accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as and the accounting for aircraft leases and associated maintenance applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act provisions.
The judgements in respect of the recoverability of 2006: and goodwill and deferred tax assets, treasury derivatives, the defined the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the benefit valuation and the Groups going concern assessment and requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group thepresentation of items as separately disclosed are primarily taken financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Overall Group materiality: 15 million The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and which represents 5% of underlying Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: profit from operations, being profit from Materiality the Group and Company balance Sheets as at 30 September 2016: operations adjusted for the impact of the Group income statement and Group statement of other separately disclosed items.
comprehensive income for the year then ended: Full scope audits performed on 40 of 120 the Group and Company cash flow statements for the year units from across the four geographic then ended: Audit scope operating divisions.
the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the The reporting units where we performed year then ended: and audit work accounted for 75% of the the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary Areas of Groups underlying profit from operations ofsignificant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
focus and 80% of the Groups revenue.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the The Group team visited the Northern Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
Europe, UK and Continental SubThese are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Consolidation component teams and the identified as audited.
Airlines Germany component team to attend clearance meetings and discuss The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the audit findings.
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as Carrying value of goodwill and deferred applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, tax assets.
Aircraft leases and associated maintenance provisions.
Treasury operations and use of derivative instruments.
Ability of the entity to continue as a going concern.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 99 The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on The scope of our audit and our areas of focus our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting our audit.
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL ANDDEFERRED TAX ASSETS Refer to page 112 Accounting policies and pages 128 and 144 notes.
We evaluated the process by which the Directors prepared their cash flow The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the balance sheet forecasts and confirmed that they reflected the latest Board approved three-year plans.
We performed a critical review of the historical accuracy of budgets and of 2,595m and 228m respectively.
forecasts by, for example, comparing the actual performance of the business in the In particular, in respect of goodwill we focused on the value in use of the UK, current year against the board approved budgets.
These procedures enabled us to Continental Europe and Northern Europe Cash Generating Units CGUs which determine the quality and accuracy of the forecasting process.
account for 99% of the total goodwill balance.
Similarly, for deferred tax we focused on certain countries including the UK, Germany and Spain.
The key assumptions within the forecasts are the continuing successful implementation of the business model and profit improvement initiatives which Determining the carrying value of these assets is dependent on complex and drive the resulting growth rates.
In assessing the appropriateness of the Directors subjective judgements by the Directors about the future results of thebusiness.
assumptions we benchmarked certain external data used in the discount rate The value of these assets is highly dependent upon the Directors views of calculation against rates used by comparable companies.
We also considered the future results and prospects of the business including the successful factors such as independent forecast growth rates for Thomas Cook and the wider implementation of the ongoing UK transformation and business development travel industry.
andrestructuring initiatives that form part of the New Operating Model.
We applied sensitivity analysis to the Directors calculations to ascertain the extent If forecast results are not achievable, the valuation of the goodwill and the to which reasonably possible changes would, either individually or in aggregate, recognition of the deferred tax assets may not be appropriate.
require the impairment of goodwill.
We have assessed the recognition of deferred tax assets on losses against forecast future profits.
As a result of our work, we concurred with the Directors conclusion that no goodwill impairment charges were required and that it was appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets.
AIRCRAFT LEASES AND ASSOCIATED MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS Refer to pages 112 and 113 Accounting policies and pages 130 and 145 notes.
We examined the terms included within new or extended aircraft lease contracts to check that they were appropriately accounted for as operating or finance leases.
Significant fixed assets for aircraft of 627m and provisions of 284m for maintenance and contractual end of lease obligations are held on the We examined the appropriateness of the maintenance and other contractual balancesheet.
end of lease provision calculations prepared by management by performing an This was an area of focus for our audit due to the size of these balances and assessment of new obligations, assessing key assumptions such as the quantum the inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the maintenance and timing of maintenance expenditure to contracts, confirming flying hours to the provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage and maintenance costs.
aircraft log books maintained by the engineering department and understanding any which are significant provision releases.
Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine whether leases are The above procedures are illustrative of some of the procedures performed and operating or financing in nature.
Further complexity arises in respect of aircraft where contractual terms have been amended, including the extension of differed across the component reporting teams.
Our procedures did not identify any aircraft that had been incorrectly classified or any material misstatements leaseterms.
within the associated aircraft provision.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS Refer to page 116 Accounting policies and page 124 notes.
We challenged the Directors rational for the presentation of separately The value of separately disclosed items which are presented within a separate disclosed items, assessing this against the Groups accounting policy, the Board approved plans for the New Operating Model and consistency of treatment with table on the face of the income statement are significant.
These items are excluded from the Directors reporting of the underlying results of the business.
We also considered whether there were any items that were recorded within The nature and use of separately disclosed items is explained in the Groups accounting policy and principally includes costs associated with the Groups New underlying profit that we considered should have been presented within separately disclosed items.
Operating Model programme including redundancy, consultancy, personnel and other related costs.
We assessed the appropriateness, consistency and balance of the Directors presentation of these items within the financial statements.
We focused on this area because separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore judgement is required by We discussed the consistency of the items within separately disclosed items, both the Directors to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items with the prior year and the Group accounting policies, with the Audit Committee as separately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of the reporting and concluded that the disclosure was appropriate.
RECOVERABILITY OF HOTEL PREPAYMENTS Refer to page 118 Critical accounting estimates and judgements.
The procedures performed differed across the component teams.
We discussed Significant prepayments to hoteliers are held on the balance sheet.
the recoverability of hotel prepayments with local and group management teams and also with the Group hotel procurement team.
The recoverability of these balances requires judgement, including consideration of current booking levels, historical trend data and adherence to payment plans, We assessed the ability of the Group to utilise the hotel deposits and prepayments future forecast bookings, the credit-worthiness of the hoteliers and the impact based on actual and forecast bookings at the hotels.
We examined contracts ofexternal factors.
and evaluated plans regarding certain aged prepayments, with particular focus on those deemed to be at higher risk due to geographic location, together with consideration of any security over the hotel held by the Group.
We challenged the recoverability of certain prepayments and whether appropriate provisions had been recorded.
Our work did not identify any material hotel prepayments that we did not consider to be recoverable.
TREASURY OPERATIONS AND USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Refer to pages 113 to 114 Accounting policies and pages 138 to 141 notes.
We used our specialist treasury knowledge to test the valuations for fuel and foreign currency derivatives by recalculating their fair value using observable The Group uses a number of hedging structures including options to manage itsexposure to adverse movements in fuel prices and foreign exchangerates.
We evaluated the values held in the hedging reserve and tested manual The accounting for options and related derivatives is complex and we therefore focused on this area to assess whether hedge accounting had been appropriately adjustments made to correct for timing differences between the maturity ofthehedging instrument and the underlying exposure.
applied and the impact of hedging had been properlypresented.
We examined the hedge documentation and the hedging structures in place to check whether they had been accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies and presented appropriately in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Our work performed did not identify any .
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 101 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION VALUATION Refer to pages 115 and 118 Accounting policies and page 150 notes.
We used our pension specialist to evaluate the assumptions used in the valuation The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post retirement liabilities of of the liabilities and assets in the Groups pension plans.
457m which is significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of theGroup.
We also focused on the valuations of the pension plan liabilities and the pension The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement and assets and our procedures included the following: technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension of the key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates liability to our internally developed benchmarks and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the net liability, We assessed salary increase and mortality rate assumptions against national particularly for the Airlines Germany pension schemes which areunfunded.
and industry averages There is also an element of judgement in the measurement of fair value of pension We obtained third-party confirmations on the ownership and valuation of pensionassets assets due to the nature of financial investments.
We checked that there was no impact of specific events, such as changes to schemes and redundancies that should have been incorporated into thecalculation.
We tested underlying inputs, such as employees in the scheme, to the liability valuation used by the scheme actuary.
We also evaluated and tested managements controls and processes over pension data such as leavers to theplan.
The assumptions used by the Directors were in line with our independently determined expectations and managements disclosures in respect of the schemes are appropriate.
ABILITY OF THE ENTITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN This was considered to be an area of audit focus due to the difficult trading We agreed the forecasts used by Management within the Going Concern conditions during the year as a result of external factors, specifically the impact on assessment to Board approved forecasts.
As detailed above we performed certain the market of terrorist attacks.
procedures to assess the quality and accuracy of the forecasting process.
External market shocks, together with the underlying seasonality of the business We challenged the key judgements within the Groups forecasts including can put pressure on the Groups covenant and liquidity headroom under its underlying trading, expected cost savings, the impact of the EU referendum and fundingarrangements.
the seasonal nature of the Groups cash flows.
We examined the Groups funding agreements and performed downside sensitivity analysis over the Groups headroom assessment in respect of its liquidity and compliance with its bank covenants.
Our conclusion on the directors Going Concern statement is set out below.
How we tailored the audit scope Specified procedures and audits of financial statement line items were performed on certain balances in further reporting units We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed including the Groups IT development company because of internally enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements generated intangible assets, the Russia operation because of its as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the size and two Group financing companies because of the material Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry bonds, cash and derivatives held by these companies.
Our audit work at these reporting units, which included visits by the The Group is organised into four geographic operating divisions: Group engagement team to the Northern Europe, UK and Continental Airlines Germany, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and the Europe Sub-Consolidation component teams and the Airlines UK.
With the exception of Airline Germany, each operating division Germany team and attendance at their clearance meetings, together comprises numerous management entities which sub-consolidate at with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us a geographic operating division level and then ultimately at a Group the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group and Company level.
The Group financial statements are ultimately a consolidation financial statements as a whole.
of 120 reporting units representing the Groups operating businesses within these geographic based divisions andthe Materiality centralised functions.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together The reporting units vary in size and we identified 40 reporting units, with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of from across the four geographic operating divisions, which required our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and size.
These 40 reporting units were audited by twelve country inevaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on component teams and the Group engagement team.
These reporting thefinancial statements as a whole.
units accounted for 75% of the Groups underlying profit from operations and 80% of the Groups revenue.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality ISAs UK & Ireland reporting forthefinancial statements as a whole as follows: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, inour opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no Overall Group 15million 2015: 16 million.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited exceptions materiality financial statements: or toreport.
How we 5% of underlying profit from operations, being profit from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially determined it operations adjusted for the impact of separately discloseditems.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Rationale for We believe that the underlying profit from operations provides us o therwise misleading.
benchmark with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality applied and is the key metric against which the performance of the Group the statement given by the directors on page 67, in accordance We have no is most commonly measured.
with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the exceptions Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to toreport.
Component For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of necessary for members to assess the Groups and companys materiality allocated across components was between 1 million position and performance, business model and strategy is and 12 million.
Certain components were audited to a local materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall company acquired in the course of performing ouraudit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 59 to 62, as required We have no by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the exceptions We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters toreport.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
2015: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Going concern andof the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors orliquidity of the Group statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going concern.
We have Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have nothing to report having performed our review.
anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have the directors confirmation on page 65 of the Annual Report, in We have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried nothing directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, material adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
including those that would threaten its business model, future to add or performance, solvency or liquidity.
to draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing explain how they are being managed ormitigated.
The going concern basis presumes that the material Group and company have adequate resources to remain in operation, to add or and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from to draw the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we attention to.
have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is the directors explanation on page 47 of the Annual Report, in We have appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have nothing predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have material companys ability to continue as a going concern.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and to add or their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation to draw that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its attention to.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, Consistency of other information including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 103 Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that inour opinion: the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: we have not received all the information and explanations we whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and require for our audit: or the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, and adequately disclosed: or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made branches not visited by us: or bythe directors: and the company financial statements and the part of the Directors the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures Act 2006. ora combination of both.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified audited financial statements and to identify any information that is by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent this responsibility.
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Corporate Governance Statement orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of PAUL CRAGG the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL for and on behalf of  LLP STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Our responsibilities and those of the Directors London As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities 22 November 2016 set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
