Independent Auditors Report to the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: TR Property Investment Trust plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited TR Property Investment Trust plcs financial statements comprise: Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 March 2016 Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2016 Group and Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 March 2016 Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 Related notes 1 to 23 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Areas of audit focus Fair valuation of the direct property portfolio Calculation of Performance fees Fair valuation of listed portfolio and existence and ownership of assets The first two areas are considered to be significant risks, consistent with the 2016 audit strategy.
Audit scope The Group audit team has audited all items that are material to the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
Materiality Materiality of 10.7m which represents 1% of net assets 2015: 10.1m.
54 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee Fair valuation of the direct property We performed a walkthrough of the Based on the work performed, we have property valuation process, including the no matters to report.
portfolio of 97.8m 2015:75.4m as described on page 51 in the Report of controls in place over the provision of valuation data to the valuer and review of the Audit Committee.
the valuations by Thames River Capital.
The valuation of the properties held in the investment portfolio is a We evaluated the independence and qualifications of Deloitte LLP.
We also judgemental component of the Groups net asset value and total return.
There is observed the terms under which Deloitte LLP were engaged to ensure that the basis and a risk that judgements made in determining the assumptions used for scope of the valuations was appropriate.
valuation of the properties held by the We engaged EY property valuation experts to Group could have a significant impact on review the inputs, assumptions and valuation portfolio valuation and, therefore, the methods used by Deloitte LLP for a sample return generated for shareholders.
We concluded that valuation report from Deloitte LLP was the assumptions and methods used in used by the Group to support the year establishing the valuations were appropriate.
For the remaining properties we agreed the valuations to the Deloitte valuation report and assessed that the valuation methodology was consistent with previous years.
Calculation of performance fees as We walked through the systems and We sought confirmation from the Audit described on pages 51 in the Report of controls of the accounting administrator, Committee that areas of subjectivity or the Audit Committee.
BNP Paribas Securities Services, in judgment that we identified were respect of the calculation of performance approved by the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Group paid 3.4m fees.
We re-performed the performance fee The performance fee is one of the calculations and confirmed they were Groups largest expenses and is performed in line with the methodology calculated using a methodology as set set out in the Ordinary Management out in the Ordinary Management Agreement.
Agreement between the Company and the Manager.
The calculation We identified any areas of subjectivity or methodology for performance fees is judgement applied to the calculation.
given in the Report of the Management We validated the external inputs used in Engagement Committee on pages 43 the calculation to third party data.
The calculation involves a We tested the allocation of performance number of inputs and considerations and fees to the capital return column of the is performed manually by the Groups Income Statement and confirmed it had administrator.
Note 5 to the financial been performed in line with the statements sets out the performance accounting policy set out on page 64. fees for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Incorrect calculation of this fee could have a material impact on the revenue return generated for shareholders.
TR Property Investment Trust 55 Independent Auditors Report continued Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee We walked through the controls in place at Based on the work performed, we have Fair valuation of the listed investment portfolio and existence the accounting administrator, BNP Paribas no matters to report.
Securities Services over listed security and ownership of assets as described on page 51 in the pricing and holdings.
We reviewed the Service Organisation Controls Report prepared in accordance The listed investment portfolio at the year-end comprised of quoted equities with AAF 01 06 of BNP Paribas Securities Services for the year ended 31 December 1bn, contracts for difference 0.3m and fixed interest 0.9m.
2015, the reporting accountant for which was Mazars, and did not identify exceptions The valuation of the investments held in in controls related to the valuation of the portfolio is a key driver of the securities.
We received a bridging letter for Groups net asset value and total return.
the three months to 31 March 2016 Incorrect pricing of the assets held by the confirming no changes in the control Group or failure to maintain proper legal environment since 31 December 2015. title could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the We agreed the year-end prices of each of return generated for shareholders.
the quoted equities, contracts for difference and fixed interest securities to an independent source.
We agreed the number of shares held for each security to confirmation of legal title received from BNP Paribas Securities Services, the Companys custodian and depositary.
We agreed the contracts for difference held at the year-end to an independent confirmation from the broker, ING Bank NV.
The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Group.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
The Group consists of the Company and its four principal subsidiaries.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined planning materiality for the Group to be 10.7m which is 1% of net assets 2015: 10.1m, 1% of net assets.
We derived our materiality calculation from a proportion of net assets as we consider that to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of the Group.
56 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of planning materiality, being 8m 2015: 75% of materiality, namely 7.6m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Group we also apply a separate, lower performance materiality of 1.5m 2015: 1.6m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the return on ordinary activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.53m 2015: 0.51m as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 53, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
TR Property Investment Trust 57 Independent Auditors Report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial We have no exceptions to report.
Ireland reporting and non-financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 reporting adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review the directors statement in relation to going concern, requirements set out on page 36, and longer-term viability, set out on page 31: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
58 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have We have nothing material to add or to anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: draw attention to.
Ireland reporting the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Ashley Coups Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 13 June 2016 TR Property Investment Trust 59
