INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 Opinion on Financial Statements of Tullow Oilplc In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2016 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements that we have audited comprise: the Group income statement: the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: the Group cash flow statement: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the Group statement of accounting policies: related notes 1 to 31 to the Group financial statements: the Parent Company statement of accounting policies: and related notes 1 to 7 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: the carrying value of Exploration and Evaluation E&E assets: the carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E assets: the going concern assumption: and provision for onerous service contracts.
In the prior year provision for tax claims was also included as a key risk in our audit opinion.
Whilst this remains a judgemental area, following the resolution over the past two years of some of the largest exposures, the impact on audit strategy and allocation of resources was lower in 2016.
In addition, there is a new key risk relating to the provision for onerous service contracts.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $44 million 2015: $60 million which is less than 2 per cent ofnet assets.
This equates to less than 5 per cent of pre-tax loss.
Scoping Our Group audit scope included a full audit of all three reporting units which account for 100 per cent ofthe Groups total revenue, loss before tax and net assets.
The materialities used for these components ranged from $20 million to $30 million.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our approach to the audit.
com 109 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 4 28 02 2017 14:01:49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding We confirm that we have nothing the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note material to add or draw attention ah to the Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term toinrespect of these matters.
viability of the group on page 52.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention We agree with the Directors adoption to in relation to: ofthe going concern basis of accounting the Directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust and we did not identify any such material assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would uncertainties.
However, because not all threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a the disclosures on pages 46-53 that describe those risks and explain how they guarantee as to the Groups ability are being managed or mitigated: tocontinue as a going concern.
the Directors statement in note ah to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation on pages 52-53 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards We confirm that we are independent of for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled the Group and we have fulfilled our other our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm wehave not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred toin those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets Risk description The carrying value of E&E assets as at 31 December 2016 is $2,025.8 million, and the group has See note 11 and the Audit written off E&E expenditure totalling $723.0 million in the year.
Committee Report on The assessment of the carrying value requires management to exercise judgement as described page69 for further details inthe critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report on page 124.
Managements assessment requires consideration of a number of factors, including but not limited to, the groups intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence renewal, and the success of drilling and geological analysis to date.
As disclosed in note 9, the sale of a portion of the groups interest in E&E assets in Uganda wasannounced subsequent to the year end.
This resulted in a write down of $330.4 million toboth the portion held for sale and the retained interest based on the fair value of the total expected consideration.
110 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 5 28 02 2017 14:01:49 3 Carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets continued How the scope of our audit We evaluated managements assessment of E&E assets carried forward with reference to the responded to the risk criteria of IFRS 6: Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and the Groups accounting policy see page 121.
The audit procedures we performed included obtaining an understanding of the Groups ongoing E&E activity by interviewing operational and finance staff covering all key locations, and gathering audit evidence to assess the value of E&E assets carried forward.
Such evidence included approved project budgets, and confirmations of ongoing appraisal activity and the licence phase.
Where an asset has demonstrated indicators of impairment but has been retained on the balance sheet, we have gathered evidence to assess the status of appraisal activity, allocation of budget and any conclusion on commerciality.
Where an asset has been impaired we have challenged management on the events that led to the impairment, including by reference to future budgeted expenditure.
We have also challenged management on the inputs to the fair value calculation of the consideration receivable from the Uganda farm-down with specific focus on the expected timing of receipt of the consideration.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assets have been treated in accordance with the criteria of IFRS 6 and Tullows E&E accounting policy.
In some circumstances the costs of wells from exploration continue to be held on the balance sheet for a significant period of time while development plans are finalised and government consent is obtained, for example in Kenya and Uganda where development is considered to be highly likely.
Based on the audit evidence we have gathered we are satisfied that management has reached these conclusions appropriately.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment PP&E assets Risk description The Group holds PP&E assets of $5,362.9 million as at 31 December 2016 and has recorded See note 12 and the Audit PP&E impairments of $167.6 million in 2016.
Committee Report on page As described in the critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report on page 124, 69 for further information.
the assessment of the carrying value of PP&E assets requires management to exercise judgement in identifying indicators of impairment, such as a decrease in oil price or a downgrade of proved and probable reserves.
When such indicators are identified, management must make an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset, which is then compared against the carrying value.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires judgement in estimating future oil and gas prices, the applicable asset discount rate, and the cost and production profiles of reserves estimates.
How the scope of our audit We examined managements assessment of impairment indicators, which concluded that responded to the risk thecontinuation of low oil prices during the year represented an indicator of impairment for anumber of assets with limited headroom.
The assumptions that underpin managements calculation of the recoverable amount of oil and gas assets are inherently judgemental.
Our audit work therefore assessed the reasonableness ofmanagements key assumptions in calculating the recoverable amount of each asset.
Specifically our work included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: benchmarking and analysis of oil and gas price assumptions against forward curves, peerinformation and other market data: recalculation of the recoverable amount of the assets using a reasonable range of oil prices developed from third-party forecasters: agreement of hydrocarbon production profiles and proved and probable reserves to third-party reserve reports: verification of estimated future costs by agreement to approved budgets and where applicable, third-party data: and the recalculation and benchmarking of discount rates applied, with involvement from Deloitte industry valuation specialists.
com 111 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 6 28 02 2017 14:01:49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Carrying value of property, plant and equipment PP&E assets continued Key observations Our recalculation of the recoverable amount of the assets resulted in a judgemental misstatement just above our reporting threshold that arose as a result of the oil price assumptions adopted by management falling outside of what we consider to be a reasonable range at various points in the forecast.
Notwithstanding the matter noted above, we are satisfied that the recoverability of the assets has been assessed in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36: Impairment of Assets.
Management has disclosed the impact of sensitivities of both the discount rate and commodity prices in the PP&E note on page 134.
Going concern assumption Risk description The group is dependent upon its ability to generate sufficient cashflows to meet scheduled loan See note ah and the Audit repayments and covenant requirements and hence to operate within its existing debt facilities.
Committee Report on page Commodity price volatility in the oil and gas sector continues to place increased pressure on 69 for further information.
these cashflows and the ability of the Group to comply in the future with covenant ratios.
The going concern assumption is also dependent upon group specific considerations, such asthecontractual amortisation of debt facilities, performance of the Groups operating assets, thecontinued receipt of insurance proceeds relating to the Jubilee field in Ghana and the timing of cash outflows in respect of onerous service contracts.
How the scope of our audit Managements going concern forecasts include a number of assumptions related to future responded to the risk cashflows and associated risks.
Our audit work has focused on evaluating and challenging the reasonableness of these assumptions and their impact on the forecast period.
Specifically, we obtained, challenged and assessed managements going concern forecasts, and performed procedures, including: Challenging management as to the reasonableness of pricing assumptions applied, based on benchmarking to market data: Verifying the consistency of key inputs relating to future costs and production to other financial and operational information obtained during our audit: and Performing sensitivity analysis on managements base case, including applying downside scenarios such as lower oil prices, reduced production and restricted insurance proceeds, and considering the mitigating actions highlighted by management in the event that they were required.
Key observations Management has concluded that the going concern basis remains appropriate after performing a detailed forecast of liquidity and covenant compliance for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
We are satisfied that the going concern assumption remains appropriate given the headroom available in managements base case, together with the mitigating actions available to management should a liquidity shortfall arise in reasonable downside scenarios as discussed in note ah.
Provision for onerous service contracts Risk description In response to lower commodity prices and certain legal restrictions, the group has reduced its See note 23 and the Audit planned future work programmes and in consequence a number of service contracts have Committee Report on page become onerous.
Judgement is required to estimate the appropriate level of provision required for the onerous element of the contracts and the ultimate outcome of contract claims.
The assumptions made include the estimate of usage under the contract, likelihood of cash outflows and the valuation ofany liability arising, including consideration of any contract claims and disputes.
The Group has included contract provisions in their disclosure of key sources of uncertainty onpage 125.
Management has disclosed a charge of $114.9 million in note 23 to the financial statements.
112 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 7 28 02 2017 14:01:50 97 3 Provision for onerous service contracts continued How the scope of our audit Our audit work included challenging the key assumptions through consideration of correspondence responded to the risk with the counterparties and review of internal and external legal opinions as applicable.
Key observations We are satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable, based on the audit evidence gathered.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $44 million 2015: $60 million Basis for determining This is below 2 per cent of net assets and this base is consistent with the prior year.
The absolute materiality decrease is driven by the decrease in the Groups net assets.
Rationale for the We have determined materiality based on the net asset position of the group, reflecting the benchmark applied long-term value of the Group in its portfolio of exploration and development assets and their associated reserves and resources.
It is not currently appropriate to determine materiality based on a profit metric given the Groups loss-making position, driven by the sustained low oil price environment: however, materiality equates to less than 5 per cent of pre-tax loss.
Group materiality $44 million Net assets Component materiality range $2,242.5 million $20 million to $30 million Net Assets Group materiality 3Audit Committee reporting threshold $2.2 million We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.2 million 2015:$1.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The threshold has increased relative to 2015 to align with industry practice.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope for the current and prior year included a full audit of all 2015: all reporting unit locations based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups business operations at those locations.
These reporting units account for 100 per cent of the Groups total revenue, loss before tax and net assets 2015: 100 per cent.
Thematerialities used for these components ranged from $20 million to $30 million 2015: $20 million to $35 million.
The group team audits the UK, Kenya and Uganda reporting units directly.
Their involvement in the work performed by component auditors varies by location and includes, at a minimum, a review of the reports provided on the results of the work undertaken by the component audit teams.
In addition, the senior statutory auditor or senior members of his group audit team visited the: Gabon and Ghana to direct and review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
In addition, we visited Kenya and Uganda as part of our work on these components.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process.
com 113 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 8 28 02 2017 14:01:50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report arising Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion fromthese matters.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report arising Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate fromour review.
Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisionsof the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to identifiedany such inconsistencies report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: ormisleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
114 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1Q Statement Directors Response TLW AR16 CG 2. indd 9 28 02 2017 14:01:50 3 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Dean Cook MA FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 February 2017 www.
