82 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TP ICAP plc Opinion on the Financial Statements of TP ICAP plc Our opinion on the Financial Statements of TP ICAP plc is unmodified.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law the Consolidated Income Statement: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the related Consolidated Financial Statement Notes 1 to 38: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the Parent Company Balance Sheet: including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and the related Parent Company Notes 1 to 9.
Summary of our audit approach Significant changes Following the acquisition of ICAPs Global Broking and Information Business ICAP on 30 December 2016 we revised in our approach our audit approach to reflect the size and scale of the combined Group and reassessed the key risks, materiality and group scoping.
Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Name Passing revenue: impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: accounting for the acquisition of ICAP: and presentation and disclosure of acquisition, disposal and integration related items.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year are identified with Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 8.0m which was determined on a blended basis by reference to underlying profit before tax and net assets.
Scoping Our Group audit scope focused primarily on seven locations 2015: 11 locations with 27 subsidiaries 2015: 23 subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit.
The subsidiaries selected for a full scope audit or an audit of specified account balances represent the principal business units within each of the four operating segments.
These subsidiaries account for 96% of the Groups total assets, 95% of the Groups total liabilities, 93% of the Groups revenue and 96% of the Groups profit before tax.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 83 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement When planning our audit, we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group Financial Statements.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We identified two new key risks of material misstatement relating to the accounting for the acquisition of ICAP and presentation and disclosure of acquisition, disposal and integration related items.
Both arise from the acquisition of ICAP.
Last year, our report also included Matched Principal revenue and the valuation of group tax provisions as key risks.
In relation to Matched Principal revenue, we focus particularly on the risk of material misstatement in respect of revenue associated with trades which fail to settle within standard market settlement periods.
As the revenue associated with such trades was not material at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 this risk has not been included in our report in the current year.
In relation to the valuation of group tax provisions, this risk required relatively less audit effort than in previous years, largely due to a reduction in the Groups potential tax exposures.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant judgements considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 52.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Name Passing revenue Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on pages 97 to 102 and How we transact on page 6.
Risk description Name Passing revenue is earned for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments.
The Group is not a counterparty to the trade and commissions are invoiced for the service provided by the Group.
It accounts for approximately 76% of the Groups broking revenue.
As invoices for services provided are not issued until the end of each month, the cash collection period is typically longer than for Matched Principal revenue.
The risk of misstatement of revenue increases where the invoice becomes past due or where post year end trade adjustments or credit notes arise.
As the acquisition of ICAP was completed on 30 December 2016, no Name Passing revenue is reflected in the 2016 financial statements in respect of ICAP and therefore this risk was only applicable to the Tullett Prebon business in 2016.
How the scope We tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls relating to Name Passing invoicing and cash collection.
of our audit We confirmed a sample of trades to cash received throughout the year.
We agreed a further sample of Name Passing responded transactions, which were outstanding at year end, to cash received post year end.
We tested the aged debtor analysis to the risk through re-performance and, focusing on higher risk aged items, we confirmed that revenue recognised on each transaction was supportable by obtaining evidence to corroborate the validity of the underlying trade and reviewing communications with counterparties.
We tested a sample of post year end trade adjustments and credit notes to evaluate whether these items were accurate and valid.
Key observations Our testing of the effectiveness of internal controls over Name Passing invoicing and cash collection identified no issues.
During 2016 the Group implemented improvements in controls over trade amendments.
As the improved controls were not in place throughout the year, we performed additional substantive testing of trade amendments.
No issues were identified from this testing.
No issues were identified through our detailed testing of cash receipts and aged debtors.
We determined the recognition of Name Passing revenue to be appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policy on page 97. www.
com 84 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TP ICAP plc continued Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on pages 97 to 102, accounting estimates and judgements on page 102, the intangible assets arising on consolidation Note on pages 110 to 111 and the other intangible assets Note on page 111.
Risk description As required by IAS 36, goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Determining whether the goodwill of 1,063.9m, other intangible assets of 70.1m and other intangible assets arising on consolidation of 649.2m are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, using the higher of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use takes into account expected future cash flows and requires the selection of suitable discount rates and forecast future growth rates and is therefore inherently subjective.
The value in use of each CGU is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
We focused our testing on the CGUs where we identified increased sensitivity to the growth rate assumptions.
The value in use method was used to assess the recoverable amount of all CGUs excluding ICAP.
Following the acquisition of ICAP, 687.0m of goodwill and 639.0m of other intangible assets were recognised as at 31 December 2016.
The provisional amount of goodwill and other intangible assets arising on the acquisition of ICAP have not been allocated to CGUs due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end and therefore the Group is not required to assess the ICAP related goodwill for impairment as at 31 December 2016.
As permitted by IAS 36, the initial allocation to CGUs will be completed before the end of 2017.
No impairment was recorded in the year for any of the CGUs.
How the scope We challenged the identification of the Groups CGUs, by assessing whether the CGUs reflected the lowest aggregation of our audit of assets that generate largely independent cash flows.
responded to We performed detailed analysis and challenge of the Groups assumptions used in the annual impairment review, in the risk particular forecast future growth rates, the cash flow projections and discount rates used by the Group in its impairment tests of the CGUs.
We challenged cash flow forecasts and growth rates by evaluating recent performance, trend analysis and comparing growth rates to those achieved historically and to external market data where available.
Our internal valuations specialists independently derived discount rates which we compared to the rates used by the Group and we benchmarked discount and growth rates to available external peer group data.
As the impairment tests for the Europe and the Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific CGUs were sensitive to changes in the growth rate assumption, we assessed the point at which an impairment would occur and considered whether this was a reasonably possible change which required additional disclosure.
Key observations We concluded that the Directors impairment test was appropriate and that no impairment of goodwill and other intangibles has arisen.
We determined the identification of CGUs to be appropriate.
The cash flow forecasts used in the annual impairment review were consistent with the most recent financial budgets considered by the Board and were reasonable in the context of recent business performance.
The discount rates used by the Group are within a reasonable range of rates implied by both our internally derived discount rates and peer benchmarks.
The impairment tests are insensitive to reasonably possible changes in discount rates.
The growth rates used by management are reasonable and we considered that the disclosures made by the Directors that a reasonably possible change in the growth rate assumptions for the Europe and the Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific CGUs would result in the carrying value of these CGUs exceeding their recoverable amount is appropriate.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 85 Accounting for the acquisition of ICAP Refer to the key areas of judgement on page 102, significant accounting policies on pages 97 to 102 and Note 30 on pages 127 to 128.
Risk description As detailed on pages 127, the Group completed the acquisition of ICAP on 30 December 2016.
The acquisition resulted in the recognition of 687.0m of goodwill and 639.0m of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2016.
Accounting for the acquisition gives rise to two key areas of management judgement and estimation uncertainty: the valuation and completeness of 639.0m of separately identifiable intangible assets: and the valuation and completeness of adjustments required to reflect the assets and liabilities of ICAP at their fair value as at 30 December 2016.
The Directors engaged external specialists to support their assessment of the completeness and valuation of intangible assets.
A majority of the separately identifiable intangible assets comprise 601.0m relating to customer contracts and relationships and 27.0m relating to the ICAP brand and trademarks and we have focused on testing the assumptions to which the valuation of these assets are most sensitive.
As required by IFRS 3, the Directors have measured the fair value of assets and liabilities based on facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date.
The Directors have provisionally determined that no adjustments are required to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in ICAPs acquisition date balance sheet.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 117.2m.
How the scope We audited the Groups accounting for the acquisition, specifically focusing on the valuation and completeness of of our audit separately identifiable intangible assets and fair value adjustments.
responded We used our own internal valuation specialists to challenge the conclusions reached by the Directors in determining to the risk the separately identifiable intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Our audit procedures included: assessing the objectivity and expertise of the Groups external specialists, meeting with them to discuss their approach and the findings within their final report: comparing the intangible assets recognised by the Group against a list of reasonably possible intangible assets for comparable businesses: testing the valuation methodology applied through comparison to industry practice: challenging the cash flow forecasts by reference to historical performance and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions: challenging the appropriateness of other inputs and significant assumptions used in valuing the customer contracts and relationships and the ICAP brand and trademarks: and comparing the relative split between goodwill and other intangible assets recognised by the Group to recent and comparable acquisitions made by similar companies.
We have challenged the methodology applied by the Directors to determine that no fair value adjustments are required to the assets and liabilities of ICAP as at 30 December 2016 by independently assessing whether any additional fair value adjustments should be made based on the known facts and circumstances.
Key observations The valuations and allocation are provisional and subject to change in the measurement period.
We considered the provisional identification of the ICAP brand and trademarks, the customer contracts and relationships and the provisional valuation methodology used to be appropriate and in line with industry practice.
We considered the cash flow forecasts, key inputs and assumptions to be reasonable in the context of the known facts and circumstances and historical performance.
The provisional allocation between goodwill and other intangible assets is reasonable.
No material fair value adjustments were identified through our testing.
com 86 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TP ICAP plc continued Presentation and disclosure of acquisition, disposal and integration related items Refer to the basis of preparation Note on pages 95 to 96 and Note 6 on pages 105 to 106.
Risk description The Group reports acquisition, disposal and integration related items of 63.2m before taxation.
These include costs relating to the acquisition of ICAP of 16.8m and integration costs of 19.3m.
There is a risk that items that reflect the underlying performance of the Group are incorrectly presented as acquisition, disposal and integration related items.
In addition, there is a risk that undue prominence is given to underlying results compared to the statutory results of the Group in the Annual Report.
How the scope For a sample of acquisition, disposal and integration related items we obtained supporting evidence to confirm of our audit whether the items relate to acquisitions, disposals or integration or should be presented as part of the Groups responded underlying results.
to the risk We read the Annual Report and challenged the prominence given to underlying results relative to the Groups statutory results and whether the presentation was misleading.
We read the description of the basis of underlying results and whether it was consistently applied.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the reconciliation between underlying and statutory results.
Key observations We identified no items within acquisition, disposal and integration related items that should be presented in underlying results.
We considered that the presentation of the Groups underlying results is appropriately explained, is understandable and that the reconciliation to the Groups statutory results is complete and accurate.
We considered that appropriate prominence has been given to the statutory results in the Annual Report.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 8.0m 2015: 4.9m Basis for Last year we determined materiality for the Group to be 4.9m based on approximately 5% of underlying profit before determining tax of 93.7m and this equated to less than 1% of equity.
materiality Given the ICAP acquisition was completed on 30 December 2016, the balance sheet of the Group has increased and rationale significantly without a commensurate increase in the Groups results.
As a result, we concluded that materiality based for the benchmark solely on the profit of the Group was not appropriate.
applied We determined materiality to be 8.0m by reference to a range of 6.0m to 8.7m based on 5% of normalised 1 2 underlying profit before tax of 120.2m and 1% of normalised net assets of 855.2m respectively.
Materiality of 8.0m equates to 6.7% of normalised profit before tax and 0.9% of normalised net assets.
1 We have determined normalised underlying profit before tax as underlying profit before tax of 121.6m less amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation of 1.4m.
As amortisation of intangibles arising on consolidation are recurring costs arguably they reflect underlying business performance.
2 We have determined normalised net assets as net assets of 1,919.1m less goodwill of 1,063.9m.
Goodwill is excluded given its significance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2015: 0.1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 87 An overview of the scope of our audit Following the acquisition of ICAP on 30 December 2016, we revised the scope of our audit to reflect the size and scale of the combined Group.
Our Group audit scope focused primarily on seven locations 2015: 11 locations with 27 subsidiaries 2015: 23 subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit.
The decrease in the number of locations reflects the relative significance of locations following the acquisition of ICAP.
The increase in the number of subsidiaries reflects the increased number of entities in the Group and their relative size.
Our audit procedures in respect of the balance sheet of ICAP as at 30 December 2016 were performed in the UK and US given the locations of ICAPs financial reporting systems and processes.
In addition we performed specified audit procedures on account balances in a number of other subsidiaries to support our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The subsidiaries selected for a full scope audit or specified audit procedures represent the principal business units within each of the Groups operating segments.
The subsidiaries subject to full scope audit account for 96% 2015: 94% of the Groups total assets, 95% 2015: 95% of the Groups total liabilities, 93% 2015: 95% of the Groups revenue and 96% 2015: 96% of the Groups profit before tax.
The subsidiaries were selected to provide an appropriate basis of undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement including those identified above.
Our audits of each of the subsidiaries were performed using lower levels of materiality based on their size relative to the Group.
The materiality for each subsidiary audit ranged from 2.8m to 4.4m 2015: 2.95m.
Revenue Profit before tax Total assets % % % Full scope 93 Full scope 96 Full scope 96 Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures 0 0 3 Analytical procedures only 7 Analytical procedures only 4 Analytical procedures only 1 We tested the Groups consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to a full scope audit or specified audit procedures.
We also performed high level analytical review procedures in respect of those entities not included in the scope of our audit to identify any fluctuations or relationships that are inconsistent with other relevant information and obtained adequate explanations.
The Senior Statutory Auditor has responsibility for overseeing all aspects of the audit work of the component auditors.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is also the lead audit partner for the EMEA component.
In discharging this responsibility, he visited the US and Singapore during the audit to meet local management and to oversee the audits of the subsidiaries based in the Americas and Asia.
The Group audit team performed a remote file review of the work performed by two other component auditors.
The Group audit team maintained dialogue with all component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and received written reports from component auditors setting out the results of their audit procedures.
com 88 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of TP ICAP plc continued Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing to report on going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Directors Report on page 80.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 80 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 34 to 37 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors Statement in Note 2 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation on page 80 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 89 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of arising from these matters.
Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement arising from our review.
relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, not identified any such in our opinion, information in the annual report is: inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Robert Topley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 14 March 2017 www.
