UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: UBM plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit and the parents loss for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International accounting Standards Board IASB and in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991: and The Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited UBM plcs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Related notes 1 to 16 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 8.3 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Revenue recognition as a result of inappropriate cut off via manipulation of deferred revenue: Recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses: Accounting for the sale of PR Newswire Updated in 2016 : and Carrying value of goodwill.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of 7 components and audit procedures on specific balances of a further 6 components.
We performed specified procedures in relation to the PR Newswire US component reported within discontinued operations.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 82% of Revenue from continuing operations.
The component where we performed specified audit procedures accounted for 71% of Revenue reported within the results of discontinued operations.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 9.6m which represents 5% of Group profit before tax and exceptional items for both continuing and discontinued operations.
104 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Revenue recognition as a result of For each material revenue stream at full and specific Based on the procedures inappropriate cut off via manipulation of scope locations, we identified and assessed the performed, including those in deferred revenue design of key controls to validate that revenue respect of cut off via manipulation recognition was appropriate and applied in accordance of deferred revenue, we did not Refer to Note 3.1 of the Consolidated Financial with the Groups accounting policies.
identify any evidence of material Statements.
misstatement in the revenue For a number of components, we tested the operating recognised in the year or revenue We focused on this area due to the significant effectiveness of controls, including IT general and deferred at 31 December 2016. value of revenue for the Group, with continuing certain application controls.
revenue of 863.0m 2015: 769.9m and We performed substantive procedures on a sample of discontinued revenue of 103.0m 2015: transactions for each material revenue stream from 204.7m.
general ledger through to appropriate support to For the Events businesses, customers can be test that appropriate revenue recognition had been invoiced many months before an event, with applied.
revenue deferred until the event takes place.
To address the risk of management override as As such, there is the potential for error and a result of manipulation of deferred revenue, we for management manipulation of the timing of performed cut off procedures by testing items from recognition of revenue.
revenue recognised during the year and subsequent For the Other Marketing Services businesses, to year end to gain assurance over the completeness contracts are entered into with customers and existence of deferred revenue balances at year which can extend over the year end, resulting end.
We also tested credit notes issued after the in the potential for error and for management balance sheet date to assess appropriate revenue manipulation of the timing of revenue recognition in the period.
For full and specific scope locations with material revenue streams, we performed testing on revenue There is no change in the risk profile in the recorded through journal entries outside of normal current year.
business processes to establish whether a service had been provided in the financial year to support the revenue recognised.
We performed other substantive, transactional testing and analytical procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
At one full scope component in UBM Americas, we performed testing over full populations of transactions using data analytics.
At each full and specific scope audit location with significant revenue streams 10 components, we performed audit procedures which covered 82% of the Groups Revenue from continuing operations.
We also performed specified procedures over Revenue at one location that covers 71% of the Groups Revenue reported within the results for discontinued operations.
We also performed review procedures in 6 locations, which covered a further 7% of the Groups Revenue from continuing operations.
105 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Recognition of deferred tax assets in We evaluated managements rationale for the Based on the results of our work, respect of tax losses forecast periods selected in determining the we agree with managements likelihood of the Group generating suitable future judgements and estimates in Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 72 : profits to support the recognition of deferred relation to deferred tax asset Basis of preparation page 120 : and Note 3.6 tax assets.
We considered the appropriateness of recognition in respect of tax of the Consolidated Financial Statements managements assumptions based on the known losses and specifically in relation facts and circumstances, including the reliability to the forecast periods applied in UBM has recognised deferred tax assets of of forecast models, for each tax jurisdiction.
In determining the likelihood of the 26.2m 2015: 13.5m that relate to tax losses particular, we assessed the impact of the disposal of Group generating suitable future over and above the amount recognised to offset PR Newswire and subsequent changes to the Groups profits to support the recognition.
In addition, there are tax structure on the Groups future capacity to utilise We note that the assumptions and significant unused tax losses for which no available tax attributes in the United States.
judgements applied in the forecast deferred tax assets have been recognised in models mean that the range of respect of the United Kingdom, the United We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting possible outcomes is broad.
States and Luxembourg as set out in Note 3.6. taxable profits and the integrity of the forecast models and the consistency of the projections with We focus on this area as the assessment of the other forecasts made by management and approved amount of deferred tax assets to be recognised by the Board.
As a result of these procedures, for tax losses involves judgements and we formed our own view on the Groups capacity estimates in relation to future taxable profits to obtain effective relief for tax losses and other and hence the capacity to utilise available tax temporary differences over the forecast period in the assets.
United Kingdom, the United States and Luxembourg.
There is no change in the risk profile in the We considered the appropriateness of the Groups current year.
disclosures in Note 3.6 in respect of deferred tax.
The recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team with the assistance of our United States audit of tax team who undertook specific procedures in relation to verifying the underlying gross tax attributes upon which the deferred tax assets are calculated.
106 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Updated in 2016 Accounting for the sale of We inspected all key contracts in relation to the sale, Based on audit procedures, we are PR Newswire including the sale and purchase agreement SPA satisfied that the gain recognised on and the preferred equity instrument agreement, to disposal of PR Newswire has been Refer to the Audit Committee Report page corroborate that the risks and rewards of ownership correctly calculated.
72 : Basis of preparation page 119 : and Notes of PR Newswire had passed and hence fide-recognition 6.3 and 6.4 of the Consolidated Financial The disclosure of the gain on of the business was appropriate.
Statements disposal as an exceptional item We performed specified audit procedures on the is in accordance with the Groups In December 2015, UBM announced the trading results of the PR Newswire United States disclosed accounting policy conditional sale of PR Newswire.
The assets business to the date of disposal and on the net for exceptional items and is in and liabilities were recognised as held for sale assets of that component to be included in the accordance with the requirements in the 2015 statement of financial position and calculation of the gain on disposal.
of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial the results were classified as a discontinued Statements.
We agreed the calculation of the accounting gain operation in the income statement for the year recognised on disposal, including the fair value ended 31 December 2015. attributed to the preferred equity instrument and the In June 2016, UBM completed the sale of fair value movement on a deal contingent forward PR Newswire for $841m.
The results of this exchange contract, entered into in contemplation of business to the date of disposal and the gain this transaction completing.
on disposal of 389.1m are classified within We tested that only those costs directly attributable discontinued operations in the consolidated to the disposal transaction, including managements income statement.
estimations of warranty liabilities under the SPA, We focus on this area given the magnitude of were treated as part of the gain on disposal within the gain arising on the sale of this business.
Further, the gain on disposal calculation Given the size and nature of the disposal gain, we includes an element of consideration in the considered the appropriateness of its classification form of a preferred equity instrument, a fair as an exceptional item in line with the Groups value movement on a deal contingent forward accounting policy for such items as set out in note exchange contract, warranties and other 3.5. disposal related costs.
Audit procedures on the disposal accounting for PR Newswire were performed by the Primary audit team.
Our component audit team for the PR Newswire United States business performed specified audit procedures in relation to that components trading results prior to disposal and on the net assets to be included within the calculation of the gain on disposal.
107 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Carrying value of goodwill We challenged managements assumptions used in its Based on the results of our work, impairment models for assessing the recoverability we agree with managements Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 72 : of the carrying value of goodwill.
We focused on the conclusion that no impairment of Basis of preparation page 120 : and Note 4.1 of appropriateness of CGU identification, methodology goodwill at a CGU level is required in the Consolidated Financial Statements applied to estimate recoverable values, discount rates the current year.
Specifically: We focused on this area due the size of The UBM Americas Print CGU has the goodwill balance of 1,644.5m 2015: We validated that the changes in CGUs identified were minimal headroom and the 14.1m 1,195.3m and because the directors consistent with changes in the business and reflects carrying value of goodwill at the assessment of value in use of the Groups Cash the lowest level at which management monitors date of the impairment test is most Generating Units CGUs involves judgement goodwill in accordance with the requirements of IAS sensitive to reasonably possible about the future results of the business and 36, Impairment of Assets IAS 36. changes in key assumptions.
the discount rates applied to future cash flow Consequently, in accordance with We tested the methodology applied in the value in forecasts.
IAS 36 management has provided use calculation as compared to the requirements additional disclosures in respect of There is no change in the risk profile in the of IAS 36 and the mathematical accuracy of these sensitivities in note 4.1 to the current year.
We validated that the cash flow forecasts used in the We confirmed that the disclosures valuation are consistent with information approved by within Note 4.1 were in accordance the Board and have reviewed the historical accuracy with the requirements of IAS 36, of managements forecasts.
We challenged management on its cash flow forecasts and the growth rates for 2017 and beyond by considering evidence available to support these assumptions for example venue contracts, floor plans, and price rate cards, their consistency with findings from other areas of our audit and by performing sensitivity analyses.
The discount rates and long term growth rates applied within the model were assessed by an EY business valuation specialist, including comparison to economic and industry forecasts, where appropriate.
For certain CGUs, we performed sensitivity analyses by stress testing key assumptions in the model with downside scenarios to understand the parameters that, should they arise, could lead to a different conclusion in respect of the carrying value of goodwill.
Given the limited headroom, for the UBM Americas Print CGU, we performed further sensitivity analysis to assess if reasonably possible changes in key assumptions would trigger an impairment.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in note 4.1 of the Group financial statements.
The entire goodwill balance was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team.
108 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements The risks of material misstatement are the same as in the 2016 2015 prior year, unless indicated otherwise.
In 2015, our auditors % Group Revenue % Group report included a risk in respect of the accounting for the Reporting components Number Continuing Note Number Revenue conditional sale of PR Newswire that has been updated this Full scope 7 69% 1,2, 3 7 64% year, following completion.
The 2015 auditors report also Specific scope 6 13% 3,4, 5 5 21% included an audit risk in relation to Valuation of acquired intangible assets due to the judgement and estimation Full and specific scope coverage 13 82% 12 85% required to value the intangible assets of the Advanstar and Hospitalar acquisitions.
In 2016, there have been further Specified acquisitions: however, the purchase price allocation exercises, procedures 1 n a 6 3 n a both preliminary and final, were not areas of audit risk that Remaining had the greatest effect on our overall 2016 audit strategy, the components 18% 7 15% allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the Total 100% 100% efforts of the audit team.
1 of the 7 full scope components relates to the Parent company.
The Group audit risks in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets in Tailoring the scope respect of tax losses, carrying value of goodwill and accounting for the sale of Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality PR Newswire were subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit and our allocation of performance materiality determine our team.
The Group audit risk in relation to revenue recognition was subject to full audit audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, procedures at each of the full and specific scope locations with significant this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated revenue streams.
We take into account size, risk profile, 4.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage the organisation of the group and effectiveness of groupof significant accounts selected for testing by the Primary audit team.
wide controls, changes in the business environment and other 5.
In the prior year, two non-trading Corporate components were presented as a factors such as recent Internal Audit review findings when single component within the specific scope designation.
They have been considered as two separate components in the current year.
assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
For the US component of PR Newswire, we performed specified procedures over Revenue and certain income statement accounts and material balance sheet In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group accounts prior to disposal.
For the three components designated as specified financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate procedures in the prior year, we performed audit procedures over the year end cash balances to obtain additional coverage of the balance.
Two of these three quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial components are designated as review scope in the current year and one as statements, of the 478 legal entity reporting units within the specific scope.
Group consolidation we selected 13 2015: 12 components 7.
The remaining components contributed a net 18% of the Groups Revenue from continuing operations and none are individually greater than 1.4% of the Groups covering 37 legal entity reporting units within the UK, the Revenue from continuing operations.
For 6 components contributing 7% of the Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India and the United States, Groups revenue from continuing operations, the Primary audit team performed which represent the principal business units within the Group.
review scope procedures which included analytical procedures, comprising discussion with local management on the performance of key events, variances to expectations for Revenue and certain other income statement and balance Of the 13 components selected, we performed full scope audit sheet accounts, and other enquiries of management.
For the other remaining procedures on 7 2015: 7 components full scope components, the Primary audit team performed other procedures, including components which were selected based on their size or risk analytical review procedures and testing of consolidation journal entries, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to characteristics.
For the other 6 2015:5 components respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial specific scope components, we performed audit statements.
procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on Changes from the prior year the significant accounts in the financial statements either Following the disposal of PR Newswire in June 2016, the audit because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For scope for the US component of PR Newswire was changed 1 component included in discontinued operations, we from full scope to specified procedures as described in note 6 performed specified procedures over certain income to the audit scoping table above.
In addition, to ensure statement accounts and account balances.
For the remaining appropriate coverage of significant accounts in the components, audit procedures were undertaken as set out in Consolidated financial statements and to address our Note 7 to the table below to respond to any potential risks of assessment of audit risk, we have increased the scope of a material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
component in the United States to full scope 2015: specific scope, a component in India to specific scope 2015: specified procedures and a component in Japan to review scope 2015: covered by audit procedures for the other remaining components.
As described in note 6 above, two components were designated as review scope in the current year, having been designated as specified procedures in the prior year.
109 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Involvement with component teams Materiality In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected each of the components by us, as the primary audit to influence the economic decisions of the users of the engagement team Primary audit team, or by component financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for auditors from other EY global network firms operating under determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Of the 7 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 3 of these directly by the We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.6 million Primary audit team and of the 6 specific scope components, 2015: 9.0 million, which is 5% 2015: 5% of profit before audit procedures were performed on 3 of these directly by tax and exceptional items for both continuing and the Primary audit team.
The Primary audit team performed discontinued operations.
We believe that profit before tax the audit procedures on the 2 full scope and 1 specific scope and exceptional items for both continuing and discontinued components located in the United States.
For the remaining 4 operations provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis full scope and 3 specific scope components, where the work for determining materiality and is the most relevant was performed by component auditors, we determined the performance measure to the stakeholders of UBM.
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for Continuing operations profit before tax of 120.1m our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Starting basis Discounted operations profit before tax of 410.1m Total profit before tax of 530.2m The Primary audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Adjusted for: Auditor and other members of the Primary audit team visit add back net continuing exceptional expense excluding tax full scope and specific scope locations on a rotational basis.
of 43.6 million Adjustments During the current years audit cycle, in addition to the deduct net discontinued exceptional items excluding tax of 382.0 million Primary audit teams planning and year end visits to full and to determine total profit before tax and exceptionals of specific scope components in the United States, planning 191.8 million visits were undertaken by the Primary audit team to 2 full scope components in Hong Kong and 1 full scope component Materiality 5% of this adjusted profit before tax, giving materiality of in the United Kingdom.
These visits involved discussing the 9.6 million audit approach with the component team, discussing key risk areas and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management and attending planning meetings.
In addition, year-end visits were undertaken by the Primary During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial audit team to a full scope component in the UK.
Our initial materiality was based on forecast involved discussing the results of the audit, discussing key profit before tax and exceptional items for both continuing risk areas, meeting management and reviewing key audit and discontinued operations.
Actual materiality was 1.7m working papers on risk areas.
The Primary audit team higher than our initial materiality upon which we based our interacted regularly with the component teams where audit procedures.
We did not adjust the allocated appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key performance materiality applied by each component in working papers, attended closing meetings and were performing our audit procedures.
responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Performance materiality Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on The application of materiality at the individual account or the Group financial statements.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of Our application of materiality uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds We apply the concept of materiality in planning and materiality.
performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2015: 50% of our initial materiality, namely 4.8m 2015: 4.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage as the final migration to CORE Oracle was undertaken for Advanstar in the year and the internal financial control environment at other key audit locations stabilised following implementation in prior years.
We did not increase our performance materiality following the increase in final materiality.
110 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Audit work at component locations for the purpose of This report is made solely to the companys members, as a obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for that we might state to the companys members those matters each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than year, the range of performance materiality allocated to the company and the companys members as a body, for our components was 0.4 million to 1.8 million 2015: 0.9 audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have million to 1.7 million.
Reporting threshold In addition, the Company has also instructed us to express an An amount below which identified misstatements are opinion on whether: considered as being clearly trivial.
Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Directors Report is consistent with the Group and Parent them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4 Company financial statements: and million 2015: 0.4 million, which is set at 5% of planning the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in prepared in accordance with applicable legal our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
not increase our reporting threshold following the increase in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be final materiality.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the basis of preparation as described therein: and quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in in light of the knowledge and understanding of the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming Company and its environment obtained in the course of the our opinion.
audit, we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report, Directors Report or Corporate Scope of the audit of the financial statements Governance Statement.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Our opinion on other matters requested by the group and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the company from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or In our opinion: error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied the information given in the Strategic Report and and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Directors Report is consistent with the Group and Parent accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Company financial statements: and presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual prepared in accordance with applicable legal Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with requirements.
the audited financial statements and to identify any The part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, described as being audited has been properly prepared in or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us accordance with the basis of preparation as described in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of therein.
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we In light of the knowledge and understanding of the consider the implications for our report.
Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the Strategic Report, Directors Report or Corporate As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Governance Statement.
Statement set out on page 100, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
111 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual We have no Ireland reporting report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Jersey We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no Law 1991 exceptions proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not to report.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing We are required to review: We have no Rules review exceptions the directors statement, set out on page 55, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability requirements to report.
set out on page 41: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw We have nothing Ireland reporting attention to in relation to: material to add or to draw attention to.
the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Alison Duncan for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, London 21 February 2017 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the UBM plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
