Independent auditors report 92 Independent auditors report to the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Accounting Policies: and the related notes 1 to 47.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Revenue recognition: Ithra related provisions: Goodwill and other intangible assets: and Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities valuation.
These risks are in line with the risks we reported in the prior year.
There was also an additional risk in the prior year relating to an acquisition that occurred that year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 6 million which was determined on the basis of 7% of adjusted underlying profit before taxation.
We have determined adjusted underlying profit before tax to be underlying profit before tax less amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 20 locations, 12 of these were subject to full audit, whilst the remaining 8 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
These 20 locations accounted for 87% of Group revenue and 94% of group underlying profit before tax.
Significant changes The acquisition accounting risk has not been included in our in our approach audit scope in the current year given there were no acquisitions made in 2016.
Going concern and the Directors assessment As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the principal risks that would threaten of the going concern basis of accounting in the statement of accounting policies on page 131 and the solvency or liquidity of the Group the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 43 of the Annual Report.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 36 to 42 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Independent auditors report 93 Going concern and the Directors assessment the Directors statement in the statement of accounting policies on page 131 of the financial of the principal risks that would threaten statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of the solvency or liquidity of the group accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups continued ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect of material misstatement on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The acquisition accounting risk has not been included in our audit report in the current year given there were no acquisitions made in 2016.
Excluding this risk, the risks referred to in our audit report remain in line with prior year.
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition Refer to page 137 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over uncertainty assessment of contract long-term contract accounting.
accounting : and page 133 accounting policies To confirm that revenue and profit recognised to revenue recognition.
date are based on the current best estimate of the degree of work performed under the contract, for The Group recognised revenue of 785.8m in the sample of significant contracts we reviewed 2016 2015: 726.3m of which 443.5m the evidence for the progress made against the 2015: 371.6m related to revenue recognised contract, such as milestone completion, and on long-term contracts accounted for under IAS reviewed the contract risk registers to provide 11.
There is a risk that revenue and profit is evidence over the judgement taken when recognised incorrectly based on judgements providing for the cost of mitigating technical risks within the cost to complete estimate for and meeting future milestones.
We also sought to significant long-term contracts.
Given the verify the costs to complete the contract by bespoke nature and the length of time to agreeing to evidence of committed spend, develop and manufacture some of Ultras budgeted rates or actual costs incurred to date products, the contracts between Ultra and its when compared to the remaining work to be customers can contain complex terms or performed under the contract.
contract variations and therefore there is also a risk that revenue is not recognised in accordance We understood and challenged managements with such terms.
judgements by referring to evidence including signed contract terms and latest project status reports, and discussed contract progress and future risks with contract engineers.
We also assessed the reliability of management estimates through consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management estimates.
For each contract selected for testing, we made enquiries as to any unusual contract terms or side agreements separate to the original contract, in addition to testing a sample of billings and costs incurred to date.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Group nancials.
Independent auditors report 94 Our assessment of risks of material Risk description How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Ithra related provisions Refer to page 137 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty assessment of Ithra related accuracy of Ithra related provisions.
provisions : and page 69 Audit Committee To challenge managements judgements we report significant judgements considered.
have reviewed correspondence with the liquidator appointed for Ithra together with In 2015 the Oman Airport IT Contract was legal correspondence between the Group and terminated and subsequently Ithra a jointly its external legal counsel.
owned subsidiary in Oman was placed into voluntary liquidation.
Significant provisions to We have obtained third-party evidence for all cover estimated claims, settlement costs and known costs to be incurred including specific legal fees were recorded in respect of this event.
The provisions in place at the beginning of 2016 For costs incurred during the year, we have traced of 17.1m were largely utilised in the year a sample back to supporting third-party evidence, leaving a provision as at 31 December 2016 of and used these actual costs incurred to challenge 3.5m.
The liquidator appointed for Ithra is the accuracy of anticipated costs to come.
pursuing claims against the customer on behalf We have continued to assess the recoverability of interested parties, consequently there of contract balances and associated costs of remains significant uncertainty regarding the recovering these contract balances through our likely outcome of the negotiations.
review of correspondence relating to the The material and uncertain nature of these negotiations and the likely timing of any receipt balances means that we consider the accuracy or agreed settlement process.
of these estimated values to be a key audit risk.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to page 137 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over uncertainty goodwill impairment : page 134 monitoring the carrying value of goodwill and accounting policies intangible assets : page 69 acquired intangibles.
Audit Committee report significant judgements We challenged the assumptions used by considered : and page 110 and 111 note 14 and management in their impairment assessment by 15 of the Financial Statements.
using valuation specialists within the audit team The Group held 415.6m of goodwill arising on to benchmark the discount rate against its acquisitions made and 173.6m of acquired independently available data, together with intangibles as at 31 December 2016.
There is a peer group analysis, our understanding of the risk that inappropriate judgements relating to secured orders underpinning the Groups future cashflow forecasts and discount rates are cashflow forecasts, and the historical used which lead to the overstatement of the performance of the businesses.
value of these assets, which would have Having audited the assumptions, we checked otherwise resulted in an impairment being that the impairment model had been prepared required.
This is particularly relevant given the on the basis of managements assumptions volatility and uncertainty in defence spending in and was arithmetically accurate.
We challenged both new and traditional markets.
As a result of the appropriateness of managements the lower level of headroom and significant sensitivities based on our work performed on future cashflow forecast growth assumed we the key assumptions, and recalculated these have focused this risk on the following goodwill sensitised scenarios.
and acquired intangible asset balances: With regards to the disclosures within the Annual goodwill attributable to the Infrastructure cash Report, we assessed whether they appropriately generating unit reflect the facts and circumstances within the government customer relationship managements assessment of impairment over acquired intangible asset held at GigaSat goodwill and acquired intangibles and specifically on the disclosure relating to the Infrastructure cash generating unit under a sensitised scenario.
Independent auditors report 95 Our assessment of risks of material Risk description How the scope of our audit responded misstatement continued to the risk Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities valuation Refer to page 137 critical accounting Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the judgements and key sources of estimation design and implementation of controls over the uncertainty pensions : page 137 accounting accounting for defined benefit pension scheme.
policies pensions : and page 69 Audit We included a pension specialist within our Committee report significant issues considered.
audit team to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions through benchmarking to industry The Group operates defined benefit pension data, and accepted methodology used to value schemes in the UK, Switzerland and Canada.
At the defined benefit pension scheme obligation.
31 December 2016 the defined benefit pension We also assessed whether the 15.5m scheme obligation was 400.5m which resulted curtailment gain recognised in the year, was in a net IAS 19 Employment Benefits deficit of appropriately calculated and presented within 113.2m.
The UK scheme accounted for 98% of the financial statements.
The scheme closed to future accrual in 2016, and a 15.5m curtailment gain was recognised in respect of this closure.
There is a risk that the assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation for the UK scheme are not appropriate resulting in an inappropriate pension valuation which would have a material impact on the financial statements.
The key assumptions that impact the obligation valuation are the discount rate, inflation rates and life expectancy rates.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 6,000,000 2015: 5,700,000 Basis for We have used 7% 2015: 7% of adjusted underlying profit as determining the basis for determining materiality.
materiality Rationale for the Underlying pre-tax profit is a key performance measure for the benchmark applied Group and it is therefore an appropriate basis on which to determine materiality.
However we do adjust underlying pre-tax profit as presented by management, by deducting amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
The Group has established a track record Adjusted Underlying PBT 87m of making acquisitions and hence we consider amortisation of acquired intangibles to be relevant when considering our basis for Group materiality 6m determining materiality.
Component materiality 3m Underlying pre-tax profit is reconciled to statutory pre-tax profit in Audit Committee note 2 of the financial statements.
reporting threshold 0.3m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 300,000 2015: 114,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The increase in our reporting threshold to the Committee reflects a reassessment of market practice and the low levels of prior year misstatements.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Independent auditors report 96 Independent auditors report to the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 20 2015: 24 locations, 12 2015: 14 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 8 2015: 10 were subject to either an audit of specified account balances or specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The decrease in the number of Revenue % locations visited reflects the disposal of the ID business as well as the merger of certain business units in the period.
These 20 2015: 24 locations, which are largely located in the UK and USA, represent the principal business units and account for 87% 2015: 90% of the Groups revenue and 94% 2015: 85% of Full audit scope 72% the Groups profit before tax.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 20 2015: 24 specified audit procedures 15% units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which did not exceed Review at Group level 13% 50% of Group materiality 3m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the PBT % Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas components locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from Full audit scope 86% their work.
In 2016, a senior member of the Group audit team visited all of the UK components as specified audit procedures 8% well as the following overseas components: USSI, ATS, NSPI, 3 Phoenix and Herley Lancaster.
Review at Group level 6% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Independent auditors report 97 Matters on which we are required to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alexander Butterworth FCA, Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 3 March 2017 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
