INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS NETHERLANDS KPMG ACCOUNTANTS N. V. UNITED KINGDOM KPMG LLP TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF UNILEVER N. V. TO: THE MEMBERS OF UNILEVER PLC ONLY For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote KPMG Accountants N. V. in relation to the Netherlands responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of Unilever N. V. and KPMG LLP in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Unilever PLC.
The Unilever Group the Group consists of Unilever PLC, Unilever N. V. and the entities they controlled during the financial year.
The reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
Where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are identical.
The financial statements the Financial Statements comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of Unilever N. V. the NV Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of Unilever PLC the PLC Company Accounts, each of which are defined below.
Summary Unqualified audit opinions Materiality was set at 350 million 2015: 350 million Matters with the greatest effect on our audit Key audit matters relate to revenue recognition, indirect tax provisions and contingencies and direct tax provisions and contingencies Audits at a component level result in a coverage of 69% of revenue 2015: 70% OUR OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINIONS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARE UNMODIFIED What we have audited We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, KPMG Accountants N. V. has audited the NV Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016, the company income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity for 2016 and the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information and KPMG LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016, the company statement of changes in equity and the notes to the PLC Company Accounts, including the summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our opinions In our opinion: In our opinion: the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give a the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company Accounts true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Unilever PLCs 31 December 2016 and of its result and its cash flows for the affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year year then ended in accordance with International Financial then ended: Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in IFRS as adopted by the EU and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Netherlands Civil Code: and by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the accompanying NV Company Accounts give a true and the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared in accordance fair view of the financial position of Unilever N. V. as at with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced 31 December 2016 and of its result for 2016 in accordance Disclosure Framework: and with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and Part 9 of Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those Accounting Standards Board IASB standards are further described in the Our responsibilities for the As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Consolidated Financial audit of financial statements section of our report.
Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the We are independent of the Unilever Group in accordance with the IASB.
In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with Regulation regarding the Independence of Auditors in the case of IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Assurance Engagements Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten ViO and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with the Regulation Code of Conduct and Professional Practice Auditors Verordening gedrags-en beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 2.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT KEY AUDIT MATTERS In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements, the Key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance were as set out below.
These are the matters that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have communicated these matters to the Audit Committee.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context and solely for the purpose of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not express discrete opinions on these matters.
Revenue recognition Refer to page 42 Audit Committee Report and pages 90-92 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk Revenue is measured net of discounts, incentives and rebates earned by customers on the Groups sales.
Within a number of the Groups markets, the estimation of discounts, incentives and rebates recognised based on sales made during the year is material and considered to be complex and judgemental.
Therefore, there is a risk that these arrangements are not appropriately reflected and as a result revenue is misstated in the Financial Statements.
There is also a risk that revenue may be overstated due to fraud through manipulation of the discounts, incentives and rebates recognised resulting from the pressure local management may feel to achieve performance targets.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been transferred to the customer.
There is a risk that revenue may be overstated due to fraud resulting from the pressure local management may feel to achieve performance targets at the reporting period end.
The Group focuses on revenue as a key performance measure which could create an incentive for revenue to be recognised before the risks and rewards have been transferred.
Our response Our audit procedures included considering the appropriateness of the Groups revenue recognition accounting policies, including those relating to discounts, incentives and rebates and assessing compliance with the policies in terms of applicable accounting standards.
In response to the risk of fraud, we tested the effectiveness of the Groups controls over the calculation of discounts, incentives and rebates and correct timing of revenue recognition.
We assessed sales transactions taking place at either side of the year end as well as credit notes issued after the year end date to assess whether that revenue was recognised in the correct period.
We also developed an expectation of the current year revenue balance based on trend analysis information, taking into account historical weekly sales and returns information and our understanding of each market.
We then compared this expectation to actual revenue and, where relevant, completed further inquiries and testing.
Within a number of the Groups markets, we compared current year rebate accruals to the prior year and, where relevant, we completed further inquiries and testing.
We reconciled a sample of claims and rebate accruals to supporting documentation and challenged managements assumptions used in estimating rebate accruals.
We performed testing over manual journals posted to revenue to identify unusual or irregular items.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 2 in respect of revenue.
Indirect tax provisions and contingencies Refer to page 42 Audit Committee Report and pages 124-126 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk Provisions for indirect tax require the Directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to the issues and exposures.
In Brazil, one of the Groups largest markets, the complex nature of the local tax regulations and jurisprudence make this a particular area of significant judgement.
Our response Our audit procedures included testing the effectiveness of the Groups controls around the recording and re-assessment of tax provisions.
Furthermore, our procedures included using our own indirect tax specialists to consider the level of provisions required in light of the nature of the Groups exposures, applicable regulations and the Groups related correspondence with the authorities.
We assessed relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the court authorities in considering any legal precedent or case law, as well as assessing legal opinions from third party lawyers.
We also gained an understanding of the Groups provisioning methodology and challenged assumptions using the knowledge and experience of our own specialists.
In addition, we obtained formal confirmations from the Groups external counsel, where appropriate.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 19 and 20 made in relation to indirect tax provisions and contingencies.
Direct tax provisions and contingencies Refer to page 42 Audit Committee Report and pages 101-103 and 125-126 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
The risk The Group has extensive international operations and in the normal course of business the Directors make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is a key judgement due to the Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other tax legislation.
Our own tax specialists performed an assessment of the Groups related correspondence with relevant tax authorities, to consider the completeness of tax provisions.
We also challenged the assumptions used, taking into consideration our own tax specialists knowledge and experience.
In addition, we assessed relevant judgments passed by authorities in considering any need for a provision, as well as assessing relevant opinions from third parties.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in note 6 and 20 in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
80 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality Based on our professional judgement, the materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole was set at 350 million 2015: 350 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 4.8% 2015: 4.8%.
We also take misstatements into account that are in our opinion material for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it any corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 25 million 2015: 25 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities, these form reporting components that are primarily country based.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups Key audit matters, we performed audits of 13 components, which are included within Audit for group reporting purposes below 2015: 13 components, as well as audits of revenue and the related accounts receivable balances at a further 10 components, which are included within Audit of account balances below 2015: 10 components.
These 10 components were not individually financially significant and did not require an audit for group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our group reporting work in order to provide additional coverage over the Groups revenue.
The Group has 7 centralised operating centres that perform accounting and reporting activities alongside related controls.
Together these operating centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised operating centres are included in the financial information of the component entities they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the operating centres is subject to specified audit procedures.
Further audit procedures are performed at each reporting component to cover matters not covered at the centralised operating centres and together this results in audits for group reporting purposes on those reporting components.
The percentages of the Groups Revenue, Profit before Taxation and Total Assets represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at corporate level are as follows: REVENUE 2016 2015 Audit for group reporting purposes 52% 51% Audit of account balances 17% 19% Other components 31% 30% PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 2016 2015 Audit for group reporting purposes 44% 39% Audit of account balances 33% 36% Other components 23% 25% TOTAL ASSETS 2016 2015 Audit for group reporting purposes 75% 86% Audit of account balances 5% 9% Other components 20% 5% The remaining 31% of Group Revenue 2015: 30%, 23% of Group Profit before Taxation 2015: 25% and 20% of Group Total Assets 2015: 5% is represented by a significant number of components Other components none of which individually represents more than 2% of Group Revenue, 3% of Group Profit before Taxation and 1% of Group Total Assets.
A substantial portion of these Other components utilise the 7 operating centres and are therefore subject to audit procedures performed at these operating centres.
In addition, for a selection of these Other components, the group audit team performed procedures, focusing specifically on revenue and operating margins.
The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the Key audit matters detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved component materiality levels, which ranged from 4 million to 275 million 2015: 5 million to 275 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on components was performed by component auditors.
The group audit team visited locations in Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore, Switzerland, Thailand and Vietnam 2015: Australia, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, USA and Zimbabwe.
Telephone and or online meetings were also held with the auditors of these components and the majority of all other components.
The findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditors.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 4.
OTHER REPORTING Report on the other information included in the annual report Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In addition to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the NV is unmodified.
Company Accounts and our auditors report thereon, the annual In our opinion: report contains other information that consists of: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been the report of the Directors consisting of the Strategic Report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and and the Governance Report: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for other information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the the financial year is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements Netherlands Civil Code: and the PLC Company Accounts.
PLC Company Accounts: Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the Shareholder information: audit of the Financial Statements and from reading the Strategic Report Index: and and the Directors Report: Additional information for US Listing Purposes.
we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and Based on the below procedures performed, we conclude that the in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the other information: Companies Act 2006. is consistent with the Financial Statements and does not contain We have nothing to report on the disclosure of principal risks.
material misstatements: and contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing Netherlands Civil Code.
material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors Viability Statement on page 37, concerning the principal We have read the other information.
Based on our risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors understanding obtained through our audit of the Consolidated assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing operation over Financial Statements and the NV Company Accounts or the three years to 2019: or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information the disclosures in note 1 of the Financial Statements concerning the contains material misstatements.
use of the going concern basis of accounting.
By performing these procedures, we comply with the We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code required to report by exception.
The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on performed in our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other and the NV Company Accounts.
information in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and the Additional Information for US Listing Purposes that contains a material Management is responsible for the preparation of other inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Consolidated Financial information, including the report of the Directors in accordance Statements and or the PLC Company Accounts, a material misstatement with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and the other of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we Report on other legal and regulatory requirements acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider Engagement that the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 taken as a whole is We were engaged as auditor of Unilever N. V. for the 2016 year by fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary the General Meeting on 21 April 2016 and have operated as for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, statutory auditor since the year 2014. business model and strategy: or the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by Unilever PLC, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the PLC Company Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statements, set out on page 78 and page 37, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 2935 relating to the Unilever PLCs compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
82 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated Financial set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation Accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
of the Report of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of Scope of an audit of financial statements the Netherlands Civil Code: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the preparation and fair presentation of the NV Company Accounts in provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS www.
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: and This report is made solely to Unilever PLCs members as a body and such internal control as management determines is necessary to is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our enable the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and responsibilities which can be accessed on our website via NV Company Accounts that are free from material misstatement, www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, and are incorporated into whether due to fraud or error.
this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
assessing the Groups and Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Directors should prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group and or Unilever N. V. or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors should disclose in the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Groups and or Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
For a further description of our responsibilities in respect of an audit of financial statements we refer to the website of the professional body for accountants in the Netherlands NBA www.
nl Documents Tools%20Vaktechniek Standaardpassages St andaardpassage nieuwe controletekst oob variant %20Engels.
docx SIGNING Eric van Leeuwen Paul Korolkiewicz External auditor Senior Statutory Auditor KPMG Accountants N. V. for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Amsterdam Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 24 February 2017 London 24 February 2017 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Financial Statements 83
