INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Vectura Group plc Opinion on the financial statements of Vectura Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups loss for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 29 to the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 5 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs asadopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current period were: Revenue recognition milestones, royalties and flutiform product sales.
Acquisition accounting fair value judgements.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The Group materiality that we used in the current period was 3.0m which was determined on the basis of a combination of benchmarks, including net assets, research and development expenditure, Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and revenue.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed for components of the Group which contributed 98% of Group revenue, 99% of net assets and 91% of research and development expenditure.
Specified audit procedures on prescribed balances were performed for components which contributed less than 1% of Group revenue, net assets and research and development expenditure.
Significant changes The completion of the merger with Skyepharma PLC Skyepharma on 10 June 2016 resulted in a significant change inour approach in the scope of our audit and our key risks.
We directed component auditors to perform work in the new Skyepharma components in Switzerland and France.
New elements of revenue risk were identified relating to the Skyepharma business and acquisition accounting was identified as a Group key risk given the significant level of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
90 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement We confirm that we have nothing material to add or regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting draw attention to in respect of these matters.
contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on concern basis of accounting and we did not identify page 35. any such material uncertainties.
However, because not We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw all future events or conditions can be predicted, this attention to in relation to: statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the Directors confirmation on page 56 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 31 to 34 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical We confirm that we are independent of the Group and Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we those standards.
have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 91 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Revenue recognition milestones, royalties and flutiform product sales Risk description The Groups principal revenue streams are product and technology licence milestones, royalty income and product supply.
Recognition of revenue on product and technology licence milestones 31 December 2016: 20.5m: 31March 2016: 24.4m can be subjective and management exercises judgement in determining whether the Group has fulfilled all of its performance obligations, such as completion of a clinical milestone, a regulatory approval or transfer of intellectual property, under that contract.
This then determines the relevant period over which to recognise revenue.
These milestones are often individually material and therefore judgement around the timing of recognition for an individual milestone or combination of milestones could have a material impact on the financial statements.
Royalty income 31 December 2016: 47.5m: 31 March 2016: 39.2m is recognised over the course of the period based on information provided to the Group by its partners, upon which it relies.
As the Group does not have direct visibility over the level of product sales being made upon which royalties are earned thereis a material risk surrounding the completeness of this revenue stream.
Within revenue from product supply and device sales 31 December 2016: 50.3m: 31 March 2016: 3.7m thereis a risk surrounding recognition of revenue on supply of the Groups flutiform product, on the basis management is reliant on a third-party supplier notifying them when goods are available for collection by the licensing partner, which is the point at which risks and rewards transfer.
This is a new key risk in the current period reflecting that this is a newly acquired revenue stream following the merger with Skyepharma.
See notes 1, 2 and 3 to the financial statements and the Audit Committee Report where the key assumptions inrelation to revenue recognition have been disclosed.
How the scope of We reviewed the key licence contracts for the Group where milestone revenue had been recognised, as well as ouraudit responded managements assessment for each milestone to evaluate consistency with the Groups accounting policies and tothe risk compliance with IAS 18 Revenue.
We challenged managements assumptions through discussions with the development team and review of supporting documentation such as regulatory announcements to evidence thecompletion of performance obligations and assessing whether the period of recognition for each milestone was appropriate.
Our audit work on the completeness of royalty income involved: understanding period-on-period trends in key royalty streams and investigating unusual variances: reconciling royalty revenues recognised to quarterly royalty statements from partners: and reviewing Company and partner press releases to identify any unrecorded revenue streams.
Focused cut-off testing was performed to address the risk surrounding product supply revenue.
This work involved review of daily sales trends between comparative periods and investigating unusual variances: obtaining customer forecasts and comparing to revenue recognised: and substantive testing of revenue recognised around period end.
Key observations We noted that milestone revenue has been appropriately recognised in line with the completion of the Groups performance obligations and the contractual terms.
We identified no material instances of incomplete revenue recognition within royalty income from the testing performed.
We identified no material instances of inappropriate revenue recognition from the testing of flutiform product supply revenue.
92 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Acquisition accounting fair value judgements Risk description On 10 June 2016, Vectura completed a merger with Skyepharma for total consideration of 475.5m.
UnderIFRS 3 Business Combinations, the merger is accounted for as an acquisition by Vectura and all assets and liabilities acquired at the acquisition date are measured at their fair value.
The total fair value of net assets arising on this acquisition is 374.7m, reflecting a fair value uplift of 326.2m.
Management utilised  LLP as lead advisor on the valuation exercise as well as other valuation experts.
The fair valuation adjustments made by management rely on a series of judgements and estimates.
Inthe case of intangible assets these relate to forecast product and development cash flows which include clinical and regulatory risk factors, discount rates and useful economic lives: reasonably possible changes to those assumptions could have a material impact on the amounts recognised.
In the case of property, plant and equipment assumptions relate to rental yields and market value for used equipment.
Other fair value adjustments have less material assumptions given their relative size.
Note 13 to the financial statements outlines details of the business combination and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Notes 1 and 2 to the financial statements and the Audit Committee Report set out the accounting policy and the associated judgement areas.
How the scope of Our primary focus area was on testing the fair valuation of acquired intangibles, given their size and the material ouraudit responded nature of the judgements taken.
This work included, but was not limited to: tothe risk In conjunction with our valuation specialists, assessing the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies used by managements experts: challenging operational management on the research and development programme assumptions through detailed testing of forecast cash flows, including comparing forecasts to supporting analyst data: assessing the competency and independence of experts utilised by management: testing of the mechanical accuracy of the underlying earnings models: and review of the appropriateness of the discount rates used with reference to our independently calculated rates.
Our audit work on other fair value adjustments included, but was not limited to: In conjunction with our valuation specialists, assessing the appropriateness of the property, plant and equipment valuations performed by managements experts: detailed testing on assumptions underpinning other fair value adjustments: and testing of the consolidation model and reconciliation of fair value adjustments back to managements fair value assessment.
Key observations Our audit work did not identify any material exceptions and we concluded that the assumptions used by management in determining the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities fell within our acceptable range.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Risk description The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at 31 December 2016 was 162.8m 31 March 2016: 57.4m and 456.8m 31 March 2016: 92.2m, respectively.
The increase is due to the merger with Skyepharma in theperiod.
Management perform an impairment review under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets on an annual basis and whenever an indication of impairment exists.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets relies on assumptions and judgements made by management concerning the estimated future cash flows from a combination of early and late-stage research and development programmes, future royalty receipts and regulatory milestones, associated discount rates and clinical commercial risk and market growth rates.
Managements assessment has also required them to exercise judgement in the determination of cash generating units CGUs, including the aggregation of previously separate CGUs, and the allocation of goodwill.
Notes 1 and 14 to the financial statements and the Audit Committee Report outline the basis of managements impairment review.
How the scope of We assessed and challenged managements assumptions used in their impairment model for goodwill and ouraudit responded intangible assets.
This included, but was not limited to: tothe risk challenging the appropriateness of managements allocation of goodwill to CGUs: challenging managements impairment review by reviewing regulatory announcements made during the period, assessing the uncertainty in the forecast cash flows around clinical and market assumptions and assessing the appropriateness of growth trends and discount rates: applying sensitivities to test whether a reasonably possible change in a key assumption would indicate impairment: comparing growth trends to external analyst consensus: testing the mechanical accuracy of the underlying models: and assessing historical forecasting accuracy.
Key observations We concurred with managements judgement that no impairment was required at 31 December 2016.
We are satisfied with the basis on which CGUs have been determined and goodwill has been allocated, including the aggregation of the previously independent UK and Germany CGUs.
We concluded that the assumptions applied in the impairment models, when taken in aggregate, are within our acceptable range.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
94 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 3.0m 31 March 2016: 2.0m.
Basis for determining We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.0m 2016: 2.0m, which is less than 1% of equity, 6.6% of materiality research and development costs, 2.4% of revenue, 7.5% of loss before tax and 8.8% of EBITDA.
Rationale for the We have considered several different bases to determine materiality given the significant acquisition and the basics applied nine-month period of account.
From a balance sheet perspective we have considered net assets as a relevant metric given the size of the overall balance sheet relative to the income statement, reflecting the significant non-current assets and cash reserves held by the Group.
We consider net assets to be a key focus for investors given the value assigned to the acquired research and development pipeline and have therefore given more prominence to this metric.
From an income statement perspective we have considered research and development costs, revenue, loss before tax and EBITDA for the nine-month period as relevant metrics as these measures represent key aspects of the business which are becoming stable, and which have increased proportionately with the size of the enlarged Group after the Skyepharma merger.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 150,000 31 March 2016: 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The post merger Group has its most significant operations in the United Kingdom and Switzerland, and other trading operations in the United States, France and Germany.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment we determined subsidiaries which required a full scope audit, specified audit procedures and which would be covered by analytical review procedures.
As Group auditors we have overseen and directed all audit activities across the enlarged Group.
Given their accumulated knowledge of the Skyepharma Group the previous auditors of that Group remained in place and operated under our instruction and guidance to perform audit procedures on the underlying opening acquisition balance sheet before fair value adjustments, the trading for the post acquisition period to 31 December 2016 and the period-end balance sheet.
In directing and overseeing the work of the component auditors we have issued detailed written audit instructions and participated in planning meetings, closing meetings and reviewed underlying audit work papers.
The lead audit partner also visited the Swiss operations in person for the period-end Swiss close meeting.
We have performed the underlying audit work on the legacy Vectura sub-Group of companies.
We capped Component materiality at 1.6m for the legacy Vectura sub-Group and at 1.5m for the legacy Skyepharma sub-Group.
Auditsof the underlying subsidiaries were performed at a materiality level at or below that level.
Subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit represented 98% of Group revenue, 99% of Group net assets and 91% of Group research and development expenditure.
Subsidiaries subject to specified audit procedures represented less than 1% of net assets, group revenue and research and development expenditure.
All other subsidiaries were subject to analytical review procedures.
We have performed the audit work on the overall Group consolidation and the Parent Company financial statements.
2% 1% 9% Full audit scope Specified audit procedures R&D Revenue Net assets expenditure Review at Group level 91% 98% 99% 98 2 I91 9 I99 1 I Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 95 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the members of Vectura Group plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report in respect disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors ofthese matters.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance We have nothing to report in respect Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate ofthese matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, We confirm that we have not in our opinion, information in the annual report is: identified anysuch inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
96 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Hedditch Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Cardiff, United Kingdom 20 March 2017 Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 97
