FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Vectura Group plc Opinion on the financial statements of Vectura Group plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted bytheEuropean Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within page 90 and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 29.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 2229 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 90 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 93 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Vectura Group plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are unchanged from the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Goodwill and intangible asset impairment We assessed and challenged managements The carrying value of goodwill 31 March 2016: 57.4 million: 31 March 2015: 56.8 million assumptions used in their impairment model and intangible assets 31 March 2016: 92.2 million: 31 March 2015: 104.3 million for goodwill and intangible assets, including: relies on assumptions and judgements made by management concerning the estimated future cash flows from a combination of early and late stage research & development The cash flow projections by discussing programmes, future royalty receipts and regulatory milestones: associated discount withsenior operational management and rates: and clinical commercial risk and market growth rates.
Management have considering the consistency of the forecasts performed an impairment review under IAS 36. with clinical and licensing partner data and contractual agreements: See note 1 and 9 to the financial statements where the key assumptions used in their impairment model have been disclosed.
Discount rates by engaging our valuation specialists to independently recalculate theGroups WACC and then performing anassessment of the risk adjustments applied bymanagement: and Sensitivity analysis of managements forecasts including assessing the impact ofapplying further sensitivities.
Revenue recognition The Groups two principal revenue streams are licence milestones and royalty income: We reviewed the key contracts for the Group and managements calculations for each milestone Recognition of revenue on product and technology licence milestones 31 March 2016: to assess consistency with the Groups accounting 24.4 million: 31 March 2015: 26.4 million can be subjective and management policies and compliance with IAS 18 Revenue.
exercises judgement in determining whether the Group has fulfilled all of its We challenged managements assumptions performance obligations, such as a regulatory approval or transfer of intellectual through discussions with the development team property, under that contract and therefore the relevant period over which and review of supporting documentation such as to recognise revenue.
Thisis a material judgement that impacts the financial licence agreements and regulatory announcements statements: and to assess whether the period of recognition for Royalty income 31 March 2016: 39.2 million: 31 March 2015: 25.2 million is each milestone was appropriate.
recognised over the course of the year based on information provided to Vectura Our audit work focused on the completeness by its partners, upon which it relies.
As Vectura does not have direct visibility over of royalty income and involved: determining the level of product sales being made upon which royalties are earned there is a completeness of royalty statements: reviewing material risk surrounding the completeness of this revenue stream.
press releases and third party publications about See notes 1 and 2 to the financial statements where the key assumptions in relation the related royalty streams: evaluating the design to revenue recognition have been disclosed.
& implementation of controls employed by management to challenge sales amounts reported and used to calculate royalties by their partners: and analysing royalties received year-on-year and investigating unusual variances.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year being acquisition accounting as there have beenno significant acquisitions during the year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed onpage 62.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwe do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
94 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 2 million 2015: 2 million, which is approximately 1% of equity 2015: 1%, 5% of research and development costs and 3% of revenue.
Due to the company achieving profits in the prior year we have considered several different bases to determine materiality in the current year.
We have further included a consideration of research and development cost and revenue as these measures represent key aspects of the business which are becoming stable.
Loss before tax fluctuates year on year as the Group progresses its R&D programmes: the chosen measures also reflect the Groups focus on cash generation and cash management.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all misstatements identified in excess of 100,000 2015: 40,000, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In the current year we have re-evaluated our consideration of what is clearly inconsequential in our reporting to the Audit Committee.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, andassessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope on the UK businesses which are managed from Chippenham, UK.
These were subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team using component materialities which were lower than Group materiality.
Component materialities range from 1 million to 1.9 million.
The UK businesses account for 100% 2015: 100% of the components with net assets, 95% 2015: 95% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the components with a profit before tax 2015: 100% of Groups loss before tax.
In addition, audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team in respect of the German business using a component materiality which is lower than Group materiality.
Including goodwill and intangible assets this business accounts for 99% of the components with net liabilities 2015: 99%, 5% 2015: 5% of the Groups revenues and 96% of the components with a loss before tax 2015: 96% of Groups loss before tax.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and performed analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 95 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Vectura Group plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course ofperforming our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Hedditch Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Bristol, United Kingdom 25 May 2016 96 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
