Vesuvius plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc Only in-house legal counsel to discuss the nature of ongoing claims and Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit in addition assessed whether the groups disclosures about 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodi ed provisions, contingent liabilities, and the movements in the year We have audited the financial statements of Vesuvius plc for the year were appropriate.
ended 31 December 2016 which comprise the group income Recognition of deferred tax assets statement, the group statement of comprehensive income, the group 65.9 million 2015: 57.1 million : statement of cash ows, the group and company balance sheets, Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page 122 the group statement of changes in equity, and the related notes.
accounting policy and pages 122 to 126 financial disclosures.
In our opinion: t he financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the The risk: The Group has recognised a signi cant deferred tax asset in respect of unutilised losses and other temporary differences arising in groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups pro t for the year then ended: the US.
The Group also has other temporary differences in the US of 100.4 million 2015: 87.8 million for which no deferred tax asset t he group financial statements have been properly prepared in has been recognised in these financial statements.
The recognition accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as or otherwise of a deferred tax asset in respect of these losses and adopted by the European Union: temporary differences is based on judgement in respect of the quantum of expected future pro ts and the ability of the Group to t he parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including offset any of its accumulated losses against these expected pro ts.
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Our response: We compared the assumptions used in respect of future taxable pro t forecasts to the Groups long-term forecasts.
t he financial statements have been prepared in accordance with We considered, amongst other things, historical levels of US taxable the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the pro ts, the historical accuracy of forecasts, the growth forecasts used group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
by the Group, and the period over which those forecasts were 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement applied.
This included critically assessing the assumptions and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the judgements made by the Directors in those growth forecasts, by risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our using our knowledge of the Group and the industry in which it audit, in decreasing order of audit signi cance, were as follows operates, and by comparing growth assumptions to externally unchanged from 2015 : derived data.
We involved tax specialists in assessing the ability of the Group to offset accumulated losses against these expected pro ts.
Provisions 58.6 million 2015: 47.2 million : We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures setting out Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page 115 the basis of the deferred tax asset recognised and not recognised and accounting policy and page 150 financial disclosures.
the level of estimation involved.
The risk: In providing for known or probable costs, in particular to those resulting from indirect tax, regulatory, legal, environmental Income tax payable and provisions 37.0 million 2015: 44.2 million : requirements or restructuring commitments, the Directors use their judgement, experience, and where appropriate receive external Refer to page 72 Audit Committee Report, page 122 accounting policy and page 126 financial disclosures.
advice, in order to make provisions in the financial statements for such matters and provide appropriate disclosure in respect of contingent The risk: Accounting for income tax positions requires the Directors liabilities.
The Directors have also recognised an insurance asset for to make signi cant judgements and estimates in relation to income certain matters for which a provision is held.
The inherent uncertainty tax issues and exposures.
Due to the Group operating in a number of and risk could have a material impact on the groups financial position tax jurisdictions our audit concentrated on the complexities of transfer and result for the year.
pricing and other international tax legislation, and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Our response: Our audit procedures included obtaining an understanding from the Directors of the basis for their best estimates Our response: Our audit procedures included the use of our own for provisions and insurance assets, and then challenging the basis tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, to consider its used with reference to the latest available corroborative information, correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, to analyse and in light of our understanding of the business, and by obtaining challenge the assumptions, such as the likelihood of a favourable third party con rmations where appropriate.
We assessed the resolution, used to determine tax provisions using our knowledge and completeness of provisions by considering whether additional experience of the application of international and local legislation by provisions were required at the balance sheet date, assessed the the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy timing of obligations with particular respect to the restructuring of the Groups disclosures in respect of net income tax payable commitments, as well as considering the reasonableness of and provisions.
provisions in light of historical claims.
We met with the groups Financial Statements 107 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the The remaining 31% 2015: 29% of total Group revenue, 22% scope of our audit 2015: 22% of pro ts and losses that made up total Group pro t Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set before tax and 18% 2015: 16% of total Group assets is represented at 4.0 million 2015: 4.6 million, determined with reference to a by a signi cant number of reporting components, none of which benchmark of Group pro t before taxation, normalised to exclude individually represented more than 2% 2015: 2% of any of total separately reported items for restructuring costs and gains on Group revenue, pro ts and losses that made up total Group pro t employee bene t plans, of 102.7 million 2015: 92.0 million, before tax or total Group assets.
For these remaining components, which has been normalised to exclude separately reported items we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine for restructuring costs, of which it represents 4% 2015: 5%.
our assessment that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement within these.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identi ed misstatements exceeding 200,000 2015: 230,000, The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the in addition to other identi ed misstatements that warranted signi cant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed reporting on qualitative grounds.
above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from The Group operates through over 50 reporting components.
Of the 0.1 million to 3.2 million 2015: 0.1 million to 3.8 million, 20 2015: 20 components in scope, we subjected 19 2015: 19 having regard to the mix of size and risk pro le of the Group across to audits for Group reporting purposes and one 2015: one to the components.
speci ed risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually nancially signi cant enough to require an audit for Group reporting The Group audit team visited one component location 2015: four purposes, but did present speci c individual risks that needed to be in the US 2015: Brazil, the US, Germany and China.
The work on 18 2015: 18 components was performed conference meetings were held with all component auditors.
by component auditors and the rest by the Group audit team.
During these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group For coverage achieved by Group reporting please refer to the audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work charts below: required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Materiality to the Group financial statements 102.7 Materiality 4.0m Group financial statements materiality Normalised profit before tax m 200,000 Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 75 Coverage 18 22 31 Groups profits Groups and losses that Groups revenue made up profit total assets % before tax % % 69 78 82 Covered by components in scope for Group reporting Not in-scope for Group reporting purposes Vesuvius plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc Only continued 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Act 2006 is unmodi ed in our opinion: In our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act from branches not visited by us: or 2006: and t he parent company financial statements and the part of the the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the with the accounting records and returns: or financial statements.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course not made: or of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the we have not received all the information and explanations we Strategic report and the Directors report: require for our audit.
we have not identi ed material misstatements in those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reports: and the directors statements, set out on pages 19, 20 and 99, in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 63 5 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of principal risks the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
the directors statement on pages 19 to 21, concerning the Scope and responsibilities principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in out on page 103, the directors are responsible for the preparation of operation over the three years to 31 December 2019: or the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to 6 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on the companys members as a body and is subject to important which we are required to report by exception explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identi ed are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read other information in the annual report that contains a material to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
Paul Korolkiewicz Senior Statutory Auditor In particular, we are required to report to you if: for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor w e have identi ed material inconsistencies between the Chartered Accountants knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL statement that they consider that the annual report and financial 2 March 2017 statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
