Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc only Retirement benefit obligations 10.6m, net obligations Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 2015:5.8m, net obligations Risk vs 2015: FE 1.
O ur opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 90 to 92 We have audited the financial statements of Victrex plc for the year accounting policy and financial disclosure and page 96 for ended 30 September 2016 set out on pages 73 to 97.
In our opinion: Criticaljudgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
u the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe u The risk Significant assumptions are made in valuing the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30September Groups defined benefit pension schemes obligations, including 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year thenended: the discount rate, inflation rates and the average life expectancy u the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in as explained in note 15.
Small changes in the assumptions used accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as could have a significant effect on the results and financial adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : position of the Group.
u the Parent Company financial statements have been properly u Our response A valuation of the scheme liabilities is provided prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as by an external actuary on behalf of the Group based on various applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act assumptions.
With the support of our own actuarial specialists 2006: and we challenged the key assumptions applied by the Group to determine the net defined benefit obligations, being inflation u the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with rate and discount rate.
This included comparison against the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the internally developed benchmarks and externally derived data.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Inaddition, we considered the adequacy of the Groups 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement disclosures in relation to the defined benefit pension schemes.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements 3.
O ur application of materiality and an overview of the the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on scope of our audit our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Valuation of inventories 61.8m 2015: 57.4m Riskvs 2015: FE wasset at 5.0m 2015: 5.4m, determined with reference Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, page87 accounting toabenchmark of Group profit before taxation, of which it policy and financial disclosure and page 96 for Critical judgements represents5% 2015: 5%.
and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected u The risk The Group has significant levels of inventory and a identified misstatements exceeding 250,000 2015: 270,000, number of estimates are involved in its valuation.
Significant inaddition to other audit misstatements that warranted reporting estimates are made relating to identification of normal production on qualitative grounds.
levels for the purposes of absorbing the manufacturing costs: and We performed audits for Group reporting purposes at seven the Groups assessment of provisions required in respect ofslow 2015:seven ofthe Groups 18 2015: 18 reporting components, moving and obsolete inventories.
Given the level of judgements and a review offinancial information, including enquiry, at a and estimates involved this is considered to be akeyaudit risk.
The latter was not u Our response In respect of adjustments relating to the individually significant enough to require an audit for Group determination of fully absorbed manufacturing cost our audit reporting purposes, but we performed a review of financial procedures included: challenging the Groups assessment of the information due to its comparatively remote geographical location normal levels of production for absorption costing purposes by and its operational significance to the Groups operations in the comparing actual and budgeted levels of production over the Asia-Pacific region.
past two years: critically assessing the impact of manufacturing The level of coverage from audits for Group reporting purposes and variances relating to production output.
review of the Japan component are as follows.
I n critically assessing provisions for slow moving and obsolete A B C inventories our audit procedures included: % % % u testing the design and effectiveness of the Groups controls Total assets 2016 83 1 16 to identify slow moving and obsolete inventories: 2015 82 1 17 u comparison, by product grade, of inventory levels to sales data in the year for a sample of stock lines: Revenue 2016 80 7 13 u assessment of historical accuracy of provisioning by 2015 89 6 5 comparing the Groups expected recoveries of slow moving 1 Profit before taxation 2016 96 1 3 inventories at the previous year-end date to the actual realisations during the year for a sample of stock lines : and 2015 99 1 u attending the year-end stock take, at the main manufacturing site A Audit for group reporting purposes.
at Hillhouse, to gain further comfort over the level of slow moving B Review of Japan component.
and obsolete inventories, where we also gained an understanding C Analysis at aggregated group level.
of the process for the identification of slow moving and obsolete inventories through enquiry and observation.
1 This is the total profit and losses as a percentage of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures inrespect of inventory.
70 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate governance The audits of components for group reporting purposes were Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, performed by the Group audit team and the review was performed in our opinion: by component auditor.
The Group team instructed the component u adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, which included the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out received from branches not visited by us: or the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team determined the component u the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the materialities, which ranged from 1.0m to 2.0m, having regard to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in the mix of size and risk profile of the businesses within the Group.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an u certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there are not made: or were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
u we have not received all the information and explanations we 4.
O ur opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies require for our audit.
Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: u the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has u the Directors statements, set out on page 24, in relation to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act going concern and long-term viability: and 2006: and u the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 40 u the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors to50 relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven Report for the financial year for which the financial statements provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have Scope and responsibilities nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, u the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 24, concerning the principal set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation risks, their management, and, based on that, the Directors of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a assessment and expectations of the Groups continuing in true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial operation over the 5 years to 30 September 2021: or statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely u the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements concerning tothe Companys members as a body and is subject to important the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published 6.
W e have nothing to report in respect of the matters on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which onwhich we are required to report by exception are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Stuart Burdass  for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor u we have identified material inconsistencies between the Chartered Accountants knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors 1 St Peters Square statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Manchester financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and M2 3AE understandable and provides the information necessary for 6 December 2016 shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or u the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 71 Financial statements 73 Consolidated income statement 73 Consolidated statement  74 Balance sheets 75 C ash flow statements 76 C onsolidated statement ofchangesinequity 77 Company statement ofchangesinequity 78 Notes to the financial statements Directors report Shareholder information 98 F ive year financial summary 99 Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements 100 Notice of Annual GeneralMeeting 104 Explanatory notes 108 F inancial calendar andadvisers
