Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 195 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report In our opinion: and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Virgin Money Holdings UK plcs consolidated financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the consolidated income statement and theconsolidated the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statement of comprehensive income for theyear state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs then ended: as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheet as at the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the 31 December 2016: year then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company statement of the consolidated financial statements have been changes in equity for the year then ended: properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statement European Union: for the year then ended: and the Parent Company financial statements have been the consolidated and Parent Company notes to the financial properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by statements, which include a summary of significant the European Union and as applied in accordance with the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere the financial statements have been prepared in accordance in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 9.8 million which represents 5 per cent of profit before tax adjusted for 2.4 million of strategic items as detailed on page 54, as these are not considered to be recurring.
This adjusted measure of profit is deemed as the most appropriate measure of underlying business performance and hence an appropriate benchmark upon which to base our materiality.
Materiality The consolidated financial statements include its five 100% owned subsidiaries as well as a number of securitisation related Special Purpose Vehicles SPVs.
As the statutory audit of subsidiaries is undertaken concurrently with the Group audit, all five subsidiaries were designated as in-scope components for Group purposes.
Additionally certain SPV balances were scoped in on a line by line Audit scope basis based on their contribution to the consolidated financial statement line item.
99% of Revenue, 99% of profit before tax 99% of the adjusted profit before tax figure as used for our overall materiality calculation and 99% of Total Assets were subject to audit.
Impairment of loans and advances to customers: Areas of focus Revenue recognition Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting: and Impairment of intangible assets.
196 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the financial statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement We conducted our audit in accordance with International due to fraud.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest We designed our audit by determining materiality and effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address made subjective judgements, for example in respect of these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the significant accounting estimates that involved making financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make assumptions and considering future events that are inherently on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
of management override of internal controls, including Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of loans and advances to customers We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls over data flows and model governance.
See note 1 of the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 99 for the Audit Committees Our detailed work in auditing the impairment provisions included: consideration of principal risks.
- Using credit risk modelling specialists to assess the provision and The impairment provision of 50.1 million consists of provisions of material assumption calculation methodology applied by the 10.6million in relation to secured lending and 39.5 million in relation Group in the context of industry practice and the requirements of to unsecured lending.
Total loans and advances as at 31 December accounting standards: 2016 relating to secured lending was 29.8 billion and 2.5 billion - Testing key assumptions used within the models to internal and forunsecuredlending.
external information where appropriate: - We focused on this area because the Directors make complex and Comparing the key assumptions within the models with our industry subjective judgments over both the timing of recognition and the size experience: of provisions for impairment of the Groups loans and advances.
This - Reading the model calculation scripts to ensure that their judgement includes considering the completeness of the provisions and application was consistent with our understanding of the Groups whether any specific judgemental overlays are required to recognise the methodology and the requirements of accounting standards: impact of emerging trends not captured in the impairment models.
- Examining the basis for the judgemental overlays made to the The Group have developed historic data based models that derive key results produced by models and agreeing the rationale for the assumptions used within the provision calculation such as Probability adjustments to supporting data: and of Default and Loss Given Default.
The output of these models is then - Considering the appropriateness of judgemental overlays applied in applied to the provision calculation with other information including the the context of our industry experience.
selection of an appropriate Loss Emergence Period and the Exposure at We found the approach taken in relation to the Groups impairment Default.
provisions to be consistent with the requirements of accounting standards.
Our testing did not result in any material matters that we considered necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 197 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue Recognition EIR accounting Across both the secured and unsecured lending EIR calculation models, we tested controls over data input and checked the accuracy See note 1 of the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of model calculations by reading the formulas used and considering of therelated accounting policies and also page 98 for the Audit these with our expectation for an EIR calculation.
Committees consideration of principal risks.
In relation to secured lending EIR we completed the following testing: The Groups total loans and advances to customers balance of 32.4billion and net interest income of 522.4 million include certain - Substantively tested a sample of fees incorporated within the EIRadjustments as per the requirements of IAS 39. calculation back to underlying secured lending agreements: and - Assessed the Groups estimate of the expected life applied and The vast majority of the Groups income is system generated and requires forecast cash flows during this life by comparing to recent Group minimal judgement, therefore we focused our work in relation to the risk experience and our industry experience.
of fraud in revenue recognition on EIR accounting due to the inherent subjectivity involved in forecasting future customer behaviour that is In relation to unsecured lending EIR we completed the following included in the EIR adjustment calculation.
Changes in assumptions testing: used in the forecasting model could have a material impact on EIR - Tested controls over the Groups ongoing monitoring of actual vs. adjustments and hence, the revenue recognised in any one accounting expected cash flows and compared 2016 experience with expected period.
experience for that period on a sample basis: The most significant assumption for secured lending EIR is the estimation - Assessed the Groups assumption over expected life by comparing of the expected life of the product over which fees are spread.
to recent Group experience and our industry experience: and - In relation to unsecured lending, additional judgement is applied in Performed sensitivity analyses of key judgements to understand the calculating the EIR adjustment, by considering movements in customer materiality of impact that potential realistic changes in assumptions balances over the expected life and the related future revenue associated may have, either individually or in combination, on the EIR asset.
with these balances in the context of the Groups historic experience of Our testing did not result in any material matters that we considered expected life cash flows on similar products.
necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
Impairment of intangible assets We read the Groups capitalisation policy to check that it met the requirements of IAS 38.
See note 1 of the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 99 for the Audit Committees We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the control consideration of principal risks.
environment in relation to the recording, budgeting and approval of project costs which form the basis of capitalisation accounting entries.
A fast changing economic and competitive landscape requires constant innovation and investment by banks in keeping up with consumer We selected a sample of intangible assets and undertook the expectations.
followingprocedures: As technology and customer expectations continue to change there is - Substantively tested a selection of costs to check that these meet a risk that certain technology assets may not generate the return that the criteria of IAS 38 for capitalisation as intangible assets: the Group had initially anticipated and therefore may be subject to - Discussed the Groups stock of material capitalised assets with impairment.
management to identify any that may be at higher risk of potential impairment: and - Where higher risk items were noted, we discussed the asset and related forecast economic benefits this would bring with management to inform our independent consideration as to whether any possible impairment triggers existed.
Our testing did not identify any material matters which we considered necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
198 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the financial statements The consolidated financial statements include its five 100% How we tailored the audit scope owned subsidiaries as well as a number of securitisation We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we related Special Purpose Vehicles SPVs.
As the statutory performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on audit of subsidiaries is undertaken concurrently with the the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the Group audit, all five subsidiaries were designated as in-scope geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes components for Group purposes.
Additionally certain SPV and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
balances were scoped in on a line by line basis based on their contribution to the consolidated financial statement line item.
Because this was our first year as the Groups external 99% of Revenue, 99% of profit before tax 99% of the adjusted auditors, we performed specific procedures over opening profit before tax figure as used for our overall materiality balances by shadowing the prior year audit clearance calculation and 99% of Total Assets were subject to audit.
and year end Audit Committee meetings, reviewing the predecessor auditors working papers and re-evaluating the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we key management judgements in the opening balance sheet determined the type of work that needed to be performed at1 January 2016. over the components.
All of the audit work was completed by the Group engagement team.
We then performed year one process walkthroughs to understand and evaluate the key financial processes and controls across the Group and, in accordance with International Standard on Review Engagements UK and Ireland 2410, a review of the half year financial information.
Following this work, we planned our audit and presented our audit plan to the Audit Committee.
As we conducted our audit procedures, we identified changes that we needed to make to that initial plan and tailored our work accordingly.
Asrequired by ISAs UK&I, we communicated these changes and the reasons for them, to the Audit Committee.
These changes did not affect our assessment of the audit risk associated with any of the areas of focus described above.
Following the changes in our audit approach, we were able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to form a basis for our audit opinion.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 199 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Other required reporting Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 9.8 million How we determined it 5 per cent of profit before tax adjusted for 2.4 million of strategic items as detailed on page 54, as these are not considered to be recurring Rationale for benchmark applied This adjusted measure of profit is deemed as the most appropriate measure of underlying business performance and hence an appropriate benchmark upon which to base our materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.47 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 126, in relation to going concern.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
200 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Other required reporting ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 131, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 98 and 99, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by usto the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 138 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing material to add or Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including to draw attention to.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing material to add or ormitigated.
the Directors explanation on pages 126 and 127 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done to draw attention to.
so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and Directors remuneration information and explanations received Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with you if, in our opinion: the Companies Act 2006. we have not received all the information and explanations Other Companies Act 2006 reporting we require for our audit: or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report adequate accounting records have not been kept by the to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no been received from branches not visited by us: or exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Corporate governance statement agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of We have no exceptions to report arising from this the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further responsibility.
Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 201 I Independent Auditors Report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit We test and examine information, using sampling and other Our responsibilities and those of the auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to Directors provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of responsibilities set out on pages 130 and 131, theDirectors controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial and for being satisfied that they give atrue and fair view.
information in the Annual Report to identify material Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to identify any information that is apparently materially ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these reports include the disclosures required by applicable opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other legal requirements.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts for and on behalf of  LLP and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Edinburgh from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 27 February 2017 error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
