Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: The Weir Group PLCs the Group Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the period from 2 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the Consolidated cash flow statement for the period then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: the Parent company statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 115 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Our audit approach Context This was our first year as auditors of The Weir Group PLC.
The Group operates via three divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Flow Control, with each having operations in a number of locations around the world.
Many of the businesses are of similar size, so we scoped our audit to ensure we had appropriate coverage of the Group covering all three divisions.
We included components which accounted for the largest share of the Groups results or where we considered there to be areas of significant risk.
We also considered the continued downturn in the markets in which the Group operates when we performed our assessment of scope and areas of significant risk.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 8.5m which represents 5% of adjusted profit, being profit before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and tax from continuing operations.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in 22 components in 11 countries, including seven components in the UK.
We conducted full scope audits on 11 of these Materiality components and the audit of specified balances and classes of transactions for the remaining components.
The group audit engagement team visited Australia, Chile and the United States, covering five components.
In addition, members of the group engagement team performed the audit of the seven components based in the UK.
The 22 components where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 83% of Group revenue, 65% of operating profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation operating profit and 51% of adjusted profit.
Audit scope For the 18 trading components in scope being those components that generate revenue, the coverage levels using absolute values i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the components were 69% of Group operating profit for all trading components and 74% of Group adjusted profit for all trading components.
Areas of focus The areas of focus for our audit to which we allocated the greatest amount Areas of of resources and effort were: focus Accounting for asbestos related claims.
Carrying value of Goodwill and Intangibles.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 116 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, and the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
All of the areas of focus were discussed with the Audit Committee.
Their report on the matters that they considered to be significant financial statement reporting issues is on pages 81 to 83.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for asbestos-related claims Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, page 130 We have performed procedures on both the UK and US asbestos Accounting Policies and page 162 note 22. liabilities.
The US provision is the more significant and uncertain and was the key area of judgement.
We evaluated managements Total employee related provisions as at 31 December 2016 amount underlying assumptions supporting the provision.
This included testing of: to 69m 2015: 50m.
Included within this amount is a provision of 48m 2015: 28m for the Groups liabilities arising from asbestosthe mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations related damages claims in the US and 5m in the UK 2015: 8m.
in managements model: the input data to the model, such as the average cost per The estimation of the liability involves significant judgement.
In claim and the number of settled claims to source data which arriving at the estimate of the liability, management is required to we verified directly with the Groups external lawyers: and make assumptions including the number and value of claims and the the reasonableness of forecast settlements numbers and time period over which the liability exists can be reliably measured.
values to data provided by the Groups external actuaries.
As a result there is a high degree of uncertainty in this estimate.
The Group has insurance cover in place to offset the liability arising We evaluated managements assessment of the timescale over from claims in the US 48m included in other receivables between which a liability can be reliably measured, which has increased from non-current and current assets note 17, page 157.
This was 5 to 10 years as a result of more claims data now being available upon also considered in our work.
which to base a revised estimate.
We involved our actuarial specialists as part of our assessment of the provision.
We examined the insurance cover held by the Group and the likelihood of the cover in place being sufficient to cover the period and amount of estimated liabilities.
Finally, we tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Liabilities and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
We consider the assumptions used by management to be appropriate in arriving at a reliable estimate for the provision.
Valuation of inventory Refer to page 83 Audit Committee Report, page 130 Accounting To test the existence of inventory, we attended cycle counts or full Policies and page 156 note 16. inventory counts in 14 components where inventory was in scope for testing.
The total inventory balance in these 14 components covered As a result of the market downturn affecting all three divisions, 78% of Group inventory.
we considered the impact of lower revenue on the value of inventory.
Given the difficult trading conditions, we considered At each of the components we understood the costing methodology and there to be a higher risk of the need for a write down to the verified that it had been accurately applied by testing a sample to source carrying value of inventory.
On a sample basis, we also tested the recoverability of inventory by comparing the cost to the net realisable value.
To test the inventory provision, we performed an aged analysis of inventory in order to identify any unprovided exposures.
We concluded that management has taken account of the above factors and the basis of inventory valuation was appropriate.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 117 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Carrying value of Goodwill and Intangibles Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, page 130 We performed detailed testing over managements model Accounting Policies and page 153 note 14. which included: The Group has 876m of goodwill on the balance sheet.
We focused assessing the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the model: on this area because the assessment of the value in use of each utilising PwC Valuations specialists to assess the key assumptions Cash Generating Unit CGU involves judgement.
Management of growth rate and discount rate.
has performed a reassessment of CGUs this year to reflect the restructured O&G and Flow Control businesses.
The key assumptions We also assessed the reorganisation of CGUs, ensuring that these in managements impairment model are the forecast results of the accurately reflect the structure and operations of the business and business, long term growth rates and discount rates applied to future that the new CGUs met the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment cash flow forecasts.
The prolonged market downturn, particularly in the Oil & Gas division, We assessed the headroom in each CGU, performing sensitivity results in a higher risk of impairment in the carrying value of goodwill.
analyses for each, focusing in particular on the Oil & Gas North America CGU where the headroom is lowest.
We tested the disclosures in the Financial Statements and checked compliance with IAS 36 and IAS 1.
From the procedures performed, we did not identify any material misstatements.
Accounting for exceptional items Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 129 We obtained a listing of the exceptional costs and income Accounting Policies and page 142 note 5. incurred by both component and category and tested a sample to supporting documentation.
The Group incurred 77m of exceptional items from continuing operations in the period.
We checked the nature of the costs and income to assess whether they were treated appropriately and consistently as exceptional The accurate presentation of costs and income as exceptional items items within the income statement.
We checked the disclosures was considered an area of focus for all reporting units.
This was in the annual report relating to exceptional items.
to check the consistency and accuracy of the Groups underlying earnings as reported to shareholders.
In the case of the exceptional item relating to Trio China, we also considered whether there was evidence of material items that The Group commenced a significant restructuring plan during required to be adjusted in prior years.
2015 and this has continued in 2016 as a result of the continued market downturn in the key industries in which the Group operates.
The calculation and disclosure of the property sale and leaseback Further, there were other non-recurring, material items which are transactions was also considered against IAS 17 Leases to check both significant and judgemental in nature and therefore required they met the criteria to be treated as operating leases.
a high level of focus and audit effort.
We considered whether there were other significant costs or income which should have been included in exceptional items using our knowledge of the business.
We assessed the appropriateness of the classification of items as exceptional for compliance with both the Groups accounting policy and IAS 1.
Finally, we checked the disclosure in note 5 for consistency with our understanding and for compliance with IAS 1.
From the audit work performed, we did not identify any material misstatements.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 118 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Accounting for disposals Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 128 The accounting for disposals was performed centrally by the Group Accounting Policies and page 145 note 8. finance department and the disposals were audited by the Group engagement team.
This was included as an area of focus following the Groups 100m asset disposal programme which was announced in February 2016.
The sale of American Hydro and YESS were agreed to Sale and Asset disposals can be a complex area of accounting due to the fact Purchase Agreements.
The accounting calculations for the disposals that they are non-routine and performed infrequently, thereby were agreed to supporting documentation including Sale and increasing the risk of error.
Purchase Agreements and reperformed by the group engagement team.
We also considered the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations to assess whether the business disposals had been correctly presented as discontinued operations on the basis that they constituted a separate business line and both transactions were completed by the period end.
Valuation of tax provisions Refer to page 82 Audit Committee Report, page 130 We read the Groups documentation of uncertain tax exposures Accounting Policies and page 163 note 23. and tested the more significant provisions for appropriateness by: The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and has a number confirming the basis of provision: of ongoing discussions and investigations with tax authorities where understanding the movements on the provision during the uncertain tax positions and treatments may be challenged at a later year: and date.
There is judgement in assessing the level of provisions required reading correspondence with relevant tax authorities and to cover the risk of successful challenge over certain of the Groups managements calculation.
This is an area which requires significant management judgement and has a range of possible outcomes.
However, the evidence we obtained, including our testing of assumptions, was materially consistent with the overall level of provisioning in respect of tax.
In addition, we assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosure of tax provisions for compliance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
How we tailored the audit scope As part of our first year audit of the Group we carried out procedures over opening balances including a review of the predecessor auditors working papers, performing an assessment of the Group and Company accounting policies and prior year financial statements and discussion with management.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, business performance, the industries in which the Group operates and areas of audit risk.
The Group is organised into three divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Flow Control with additional centralised Head Office functions.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a large number of components which make up the Groups operating businesses within these divisions and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components either by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
The Groups components vary significantly in size and we identified eleven components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their relative size or risk characteristics.
Of these full scope component audits, seven were UK based and were performed by members of the Group engagement team.
These covered trading components, central functions and head office managed balances including treasury, uncertain tax positions, post-retirement benefits, goodwill and intangibles.
The remaining four full scope component audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
Other PwC network firms also performed specific scope audits over a further eleven components which covered all line items on the income statement and specified line items on the balance sheet.
The scope of work at each component was determined by its contribution to the Groups overall financial performance or balance sheet and its risk profile.
Where component audits were performed by teams from other PwC network firms, members of the Group engagement team were involved in their work throughout the audit.
We maintained regular communication and conducted formal interim and year-end conference or video calls with all full and specific scope component teams.
The year end discussions also included divisional management.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 119 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Of the 22 components in scope, we deemed three to be financially significant to the Group.
Senior members of the Group engagement team, including the Group engagement leader, visited these components in Australia, Chile and the US.
Together these full and specific scope components audits gave appropriate coverage of all material balances at a Group level.
On a consolidated basis, these provided coverage of 83% of revenue, 65% of operating profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation and 51% of adjusted profit.
For the 18 trading components in scope being those components that generate revenue, the coverage levels using absolute values i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the components were 69% of Group operating profit for all trading components and 74% of Group adjusted profit for all trading components.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 8.5m How we determined it 5% of profit before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and tax from continuing operations.
Rationale for benchmark applied It is clear from the Annual Report that this adjusted profit measure is used by shareholders in evaluating the underlying business performance.
This will give us a consistent basis for our audit going forward.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.3m and 7.5m.
We applied a specific lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 113, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 120 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 114, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report.
Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 79 to 85, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 113 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, or to draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 113 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have or to draw attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 121 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Weir Group PLC continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 22 February 2017 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 122
