fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTTO THE MEMBERS OF J D WETHERSPOON PLC Report on the financial statements Overview Our opinion Materiality In our opinion, J D Wetherspoon plcs financial Overall materiality: 4.03 million which represents statements the financial statements : 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Audit scope companys affairs as at 24 July 2016 and of its profit The Company comprises one legal entity in the UK and cash flows for the 52 week period the period with an immaterial branch in the Republic of Ireland then ended: and, accordingly, our audit is focused on J D have been properly prepared in accordance with Wetherspoon plc in the UK.
No significant work is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs performed on the Republic of Ireland branch as a as adopted by the European Union: and standalone entity, owing to its immateriality.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Area of focus What we have audited Impairment of property, plant & equipment.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Provisions for onerous leases.
Report and Financial Statements 2016 the Annual Exceptional items.
Report, comprise: Pub disposal programme.
the balance sheet as at 24 July 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the income statement and the statement of We conducted our audit in accordance with comprehensive income for the period then ended: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland the cash flow statement for the period then ended: ISAs UK & Ireland.
the statement of changes in shareholders' equity for the period then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and the accounting policies: and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the the notes to the financial statements, which include financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where other explanatory information.
the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that Certain required disclosures have been presented involved making assumptions and considering future elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our notes to the financial statements.
These are crossaudits we also addressed the risk of management referenced from the financial statements and are override of internal controls, including evaluating identified as audited.
whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to The financial reporting framework that has been fraud.
applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and The risks of material misstatement that had the applicable law.
greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of Our audit approach focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in Overview order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results Context of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Our 2016 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact that J D Wetherspoons operations were largely unchanged in nature from the previous year and the UK economy had a level of underlying low growth with no significant regulatory changes impacting the pub sector, other than the living wage.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and areas of focus was largely unchanged, albeit we identified an additional focus area in relation to the pub disposal programme given the level of anticipated disposals which was unique in terms of magnitude in the companys history.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of property, plant & equipment We assessed managements impairment paper, the underlying As set out in note 12 the Company has a supporting analysis and challenged the assumptions adopted by large portfolio of pubs with a net book value management in performing its review.
Our work included an assessment of 1.2 billion.
Not withstanding the fact that of individual pub profitability applied in the impairment model and a the portfolio as a whole is very profitable, consideration of the appropriateness of the discount rate used.
In respect accounting standards require impairment to of the impairment model we assessed the future cash flows for be considered at an individual pub level.
appropriateness, verified the net book value of property, plant & Given the size of the amounts capitalised equipment and tested its mathematical accuracy and completeness.
Our and the risk attendant with any sizeable detailed work focused on those pubs which had either previously been retail business that some units may prove to impaired or where anticipated future cash flows suggested that a potential impairment may be required.
We used our valuation specialists and be unprofitable, we focused on the assessment made by management of any external market data to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate impairment of property, plant and used.
We concluded that the discount rate applied was appropriate.
equipment required at a pub level.
We tested, with reference to the entire pub estate that all pubs which initial assessments identified as having a heightened risk of potentially not generating sufficient cash to cover the capital base, were subject to more detailed scrutiny.
No issues arose from this work.
We discussed managements assessment and evaluated the reasonableness of these assessments, where possible, for underperforming pubs where no impairment had been booked.
We further considered whether the required pub profitability had ever been attained by the relevant pub historically.
We then scrutinised detailed analyses of individual pubs performance and assessed explanations provided to us by management as to the decision to impair or not, or to reverse a previous impairment.
In addition we challenged management in relation to certain pubs where impairments were booked as to whether their decision to impair was appropriate.
Our view was that whilst the process that management followed to determine any impairment reversal involved significant judgements it was robust and that the impairments and reversals booked were reasonable.
Furthermore that there was no obvious indication of bias in the adjustments booked.
In instances where pubs had been sold, we agreed this back to thirdparty documentation and sales proceeds back to completion statements and bank statements.
Provisions for onerous leases We checked and validated that all pubs in the portfolio were considered in Of the portfolio of pubs noted in the area of the process which management used to identify pubs which were focus above, a large number are leasehold potentially subject to onerous leases.
and, as a result, the company is committed to significant future lease payments as set We tested details of rental obligations to rental agreements for a sample out in note 25 to the financial statements.
of pubs in order to assess whether the rental commitments used by management in its calculations were appropriate with no issues arising In the case of the Companys leasehold from this work.
pubs, there is a risk that underperforming pubs may not be able to meet their future We checked the calculations used by management to identify pubs where lease obligations and, as a result, require indications existed, for individual pubs, that future profits are not expected an onerous lease provision.
As set out in to cover future lease commitments associated with the related pub.
No note 22 the company holds a provision of issues arose to suggest that any pubs had been inappropriately excluded 4.8 million for future lease obligations from the provision calculation.
where the cost of those obligations exceeds the economic benefits expected to be For all pubs identified as potentially having onerous leases we tested the received under the lease.
We focused on calculation of the net present value of future cash flows used to determine the provisions recorded.
Additionally we assessed the discount rate used this area because of the size of the leasehold portfolio, the significant for appropriateness by comparing it with the risk free rate satisfying judgements involved in identifying which ourselves that the provisions booked were appropriate.
We further pubs require a provision and the estimates checked that the disclosures in the financial statements, in relation to involved in the calculation of the provision, onerous lease provisions fairly reflected the results of the calculations including estimation of future cash flows at undertaken.
each pub and appropriate discount rates.
In instances where surrender premiums had been agreed, we agreed this back to third-party documentation.
46 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Exceptional items We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in the financial As set out in note 4 the financial statements statements by assessing whether the classification was in line with the include a net charge of 5.7 million in Companys accounting policy on exceptional items set out on page 38 of respect of exceptional items.
We focused the financial statements.
We found that the classifications determined by on this area because exceptional items are management complied with the Companys definition of exceptional not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the items.
European Union and it therefore requires judgment by the directors to identify such We also assessed the appropriateness of this policy and whether items.
Consistency in identifying and separating out the items included within exceptional items enhanced the disclosing items as exceptional is important understanding of the financial statements.
to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
There were five exceptional items in the year: a net charge in relation to costs associated with the pub disposal programme discussed below, a net impairment charge against property, a net charge in respect of onerous leases, an impairment relating to the write-off of redundant IT assets and a reduction in the deferred tax liability as a consequence in a decrease in the tax rates expected to apply in the future.
We specifically discussed with management and the audit committee the treatment of gains and losses relating to the disposal programme as exceptional whilst other property gains and losses were not treated as exceptional.
We accepted managements view that given the significance of the disposal programme it was appropriate to separately highlight the net impact of this on the financial statements as exceptional.
Given the significance of the change in the tax rate on future deferred tax liabilities we felt it was appropriate to show as exceptional.
We considered the classification and disclosure of exceptional items to be materially correct.
Pub disposal programme For pubs sold during the year we agreed the sales proceeds to As set out in note 4 to the financial completion statements and bank statements, considered the statements the company has initiated a pub appropriateness of costs associated with the sale and recalculated the disposal programme.
At the year end, gain loss on disposal.
twenty nine sites have been sold, three were classified as held for sale and an For the sites classified as held for sale we verified that sales contracts additional nine sites have been closed as had been exchanged prior to the balance sheet date and that completion part of this disposal programme.
date for the transaction was within 12 months.
We also verified that the This resulted in net charge to the income company has measured these assets at the lower of carrying value and statement of 12.4 million.
fair value less costs to sell.
For the closed sites, we verified that the net book value of property, plant & equipment was written down to zero and onerous lease provisions were recorded as necessary.
For the remaining pubs being marketed for sale we assessed whether there was any further indication of impairment through challenge of managements explanations and corroborating evidence.
Our view was that whilst significant judgements were involved, the process was robust and it was reasonable that no impairments were recorded for these pubs.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT How we tailored the audit scope As noted in the directors statement, the directors have We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going performed enough work to be able to give an opinion concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
on the financial statements as a whole, taking into The going concern basis presumes that the company account the geographic structure of the company, the has adequate resources to remain in operation, and accounting processes and controls, and the industry in that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year which the company operates.
from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors The Company comprises one legal entity in the UK with use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
an immaterial branch in the Republic of Ireland and, accordingly, our audit is focused on J D Wetherspoon However, because not all future events or conditions plc in the UK.
No significant work is performed on the can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee Republic of Ireland branch as a standalone entity, as to the companys ability to continue as a going owing to its immateriality.
Materiality Other required reporting The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative Consistency of other information thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the Companies Act 2006 reporting scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of In our opinion: our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the information given in the Strategic Report and the the effect of misstatements, both individually and on Directors Report for the financial period for which the the financial statements as a whole.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined In our opinion: materiality for the financial statements as a whole as the information given in the Corporate Governance follows: Statement set out on pages 64 to 69 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Overall materiality financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to Rationale for benchmark applied you if, in our opinion: Given the company is a profit orientated business, we information in the Annual Report is: believe that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional materially inconsistent with the information in the items, provides us with a consistent year on year basis audited financial statements: or for determining materiality, by eliminating the nonapparently materially incorrect based on, or recurring disproportionate impact of these items.
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would audit: or report to them misstatements identified during our audit otherwise misleading.
above 201,000 2015: 194,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, We have no exceptions to report.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
the statement given by the directors on page 53, in Going concern accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Governance Code the Code, that they consider the directors statement, set out on page 53, in relation to Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced going concern.
We have nothing to report having and understandable and provides the information performed our review.
necessary for members to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the you if we have anything material to add or to draw company acquired in the course of performing our attention to in relation to the directors statement about audit.
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial We have no exceptions to report.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
48 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT whether the statements are consistent with the the section of the Annual Report on page 66, as knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the our audit.
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit We have nothing to report having performed our Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received The directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company report to you if, in our opinion: Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to we have not received all the information and you if we have anything material to add or to draw explanations we require for our audit: or attention to in relation to: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the directors confirmation on page 53 of the Annual from branches not visited by us: or Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the financial statements and the part of the Directors that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in principal risks facing the company, including those that agreement with the accounting records and returns.
would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe Directors remuneration report - Companies Act those risks and explain how they are being 2006 opinion managed or mitigated.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We have nothing material to add accordance with the Companies Act 2006. or to draw attention to.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the directors explanation on page 53 of the Annual Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of as to how they have assessed the prospects of the directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
company, over what period they have done so and why We have no exceptions to report arising from this they consider that period to be appropriate, and their responsibility.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in Corporate governance statement operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to the period of their assessment, including any related report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance disclosures drawing attention to any necessary statement has not been prepared by the company.
have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to directors statement that they have carried out a robust report having performed our review.
assessment of the principal risks facing the company and the directors statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 49 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Responsibilities for the financial information in the Annual Report to identify material statements and the audit inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Our responsibilities and those of the directors materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent As explained more fully in the Statement of directors with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are performing the audit.
If we become aware of any responsible for the preparation of the financial apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we statements and for being satisfied that they give a true consider the implications for our report.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require for and on behalf of  LLP us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Standards for Auditors.
London 8 September 2016 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in a The maintenance and integrity of the J D accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Wetherspoon plc website is the responsibility of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume involve consideration of these matters and, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for person to whom this report is shown or into whose any changes that may have occurred to the financial hands it may come save where expressly agreed by statements since they were initially presented on the our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the preparation and dissemination of financial statements amounts and disclosures in the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
50 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
