WH Smith PLC 58 Annual report and accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion Materiality In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 6.5m which represents five per cent thefinancial statements : of profit before tax.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Audit scope at 31 August 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: WH Smith PLC comprises two operating segments, High Street and Travel, and one central function.
Within the two operating have been properly prepared in accordance with International segments there are 15 entities, ten of which are UK, Ireland Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and Channel Island based and the other five are in Hong Kong, European Union: and France, Qatar, Spain and Australia.
There are also seven non-trading holding entities.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We performed full scope audits on the UK, Ireland and Channel Island entities of the two operating segments, and the What we have audited central function.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted for 98 per cent of profit before tax and the entities where we the Group balance sheet as at 31 August 2016: performed full scope audits accounted for 95 per cent coverage the Group income statement and the Group statement of of revenue.
comprehensive income for the year then ended: Areas of focus the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: Recognition of supplier income.
the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then Inventory valuation.
ended: and Impairment review of store assets.
the Notes to the financial statements, which include a Property-related provisions.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 59 report governance statements information The scope of our audit and our areas of focus The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on We conducted our audit in accordance with International our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting identified by our audit.
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of supplier income Refer to Note 1 c Accounting policies and page 34 for the views Our audit work in respect of supplier income comprised substantive ofthe Audit Committee.
testing of a sample of income recognised in the income statement during the period and testing of accrued and deferred amounts in The Group earns supplier income under numerous different the balance sheet.
The main elements of our work are considered arrangements with its suppliers.
The arrangements vary in more detail below.
in nature and size but include volume based retrospective discounts and payments for space given to marketing campaigns.
Income statement testing Supplier income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales We requested confirmations directly from a number of different and is earned over the period of the contractual agreements with suppliers, in respect of a sample of supplier income transactions.
The total income recognised is therefore The confirmations allowed us to evaluate whether the income had based on the expected entitlement earned up to the balance sheet been appropriately recognised in the period.
Where responses date under each supplier agreement.
were not received, we performed alternative procedures including agreement to contracts and cash receipts.
From the work we The amount of supplier income recognised in the year resulted performed, we noted that accounting for these amounts did not from mainly high volume, low value transactions for agreements require significant levels of judgement or estimation as income such as volume based retrospective discounts and payments for such as volume based discounts are calculated based on historical guaranteed in-store space dedicated to product.
Therefore limited sales data rather than future forecasts.
No significant issues were judgement or estimation was required in determining the amount identified through the testing performed.
that the Group is entitled to as the majority of volume based agreements are based on historical sales as opposed to forecast We also analysed supplier income by type recognised each month volumes.
Our focus for all types of supplier income was therefore and compared it to the previous period to identify whether there whether an agreement for the income recognised existed, whether were any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of supplier income income was recognised in accordance with the agreement and recognised in each period.
No unusual trends were identified.
whether it was recognised in the correct period.
Balance sheet testing In the sample of confirmations detailed above, we included requests for the receivables balance at the year end to also be confirmed.
We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further evidence to support the timing of the recognition of supplier income and the accrued and deferred balances at year end.
Cut-off work involved testing a sample of supplier income amounts by reference to documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was appropriate.
Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the year end in order to identify instances of supplier income being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
We tested the recoverability of invoiced supplier income unsettled balances included within trade receivables in Note 15 to the financial statements and where the Group does not have the right of offset against trade creditors.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding supplier income and promotional funding supplier income debtors together with understanding the details of any disputes, and obtained explanations from management to assess whether any provisions were appropriate.
Explanations obtained were deemed satisfactory and supported the year-end balance sheet position.
WH Smith PLC 60 Annual report and accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Inventory valuation Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We attended a sample of stock counts performed by the Group accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty during the year across High Street and Travel stores and and page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
In addition to performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of the count controls in operation Inventory consists of a number of product categories including at each site.
We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts books, news and magazines, impulse, stationery, travel essentials performed by management and third parties throughout the period and digital.
A large proportion of stock is supplied through sale or to assess the level of count variances.
return arrangements including the majority of books, newspapers and magazines and therefore these are considered to be lower risk We tested the shrinkage assumptions determined by the count than stock acquired through firm purchases such as stationery.
procedures by comparing them to historical data.
The historical data included the results of the previous counts at each location, Inventory is initially valued using a weighted average cost method.
and our analytical procedures did not identify any significant Provisions are then recognised against inventory for estimated unusual fluctuations in the data.
losses related to shrinkage and slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental The valuation of inventory was focused on because of the percentage to the period-end stock levels, with this judgement judgements made by management when assessing the level of being informed by historical data on the levels of obsolescence provisions required.
In calculating the provision for slow moving as well as managements view of the current stock profile and or obsolete inventory, an assessment of expected future sales of forecast sales by product line.
We assessed this provision by individual product lines is performed by management, taking into checking the accuracy of the historical data and the explanations account the product category and the level of risk of obsolescence.
provided by management noting no issues.
Inventory is counted by the Group on a cyclical basis throughout the year, rather than in full at the period-end, and as such the shrinkage provision at 31 August 2016 which is based on historical shrinkage rates contains a degree of estimation.
Impairment review of store assets Refer to Note 1 o Accounting policies for the directors disclosure Our audit work included obtaining managements impairment on the critical accounting judgements and key sources of assessment and discussing the basis for their decision whether estimation uncertainty and Notes 13 and 14 other intangible ornot to impair store assets.
assets and property, plant and equipment.
We agreed individual store trading performance to underlying As at 31 August 2016 management assessed the Groups store records including trading data and confirmed that those that were assets comprising leasehold improvements and fixtures and loss making were appropriately impaired where an improvement in fittings for indication of impairment.
The economic and sector results could not be expected, and this testing did not highlight any trends facing the Group may adversely impact the recoverable significant issues.
value of assets used within the store portfolio which is considered We also examined the results for all stores to check that to be a triggering event for impairment review.
managements identification of loss making stores was complete.
Management considers each store to be a cash generating unit This did not identify any further stores requiring impairment to CGU and has performed a review of the trading results of be recognised.
Where a store is loss making and is not expectedto return to profitability in the near future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio as set out in Note 14 property, plant and equipment.
We focused on this area because of the sales and cost pressure that could mean further impairment of the store assets is needed.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 61 report governance statements information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Property-related provisions Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We obtained managements assessment of those properties accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty requiring provisions and gained an understanding of the and page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
rationale behind the provision recognised including the basis for the calculations.
We agreed a sample of the properties to Given the long history of WHSmith, the Group has an extensive underlying documents including lease agreements and written property portfolio of both existing and former WHSmith properties communications from third parties for onerous lease provisions.
now sublet or vacant held under operating leases, which requires In doing so, we agreed the costs being incurred by the Group and the directors to make significant judgements and estimates any amounts being received as income from lessees where the relating to the need to provide for dilapidation costs and onerous Group is sub-letting properties at a shortfall.
leases when the store is making losses or when stores are earmarked for closure.
These judgements include assessing a For dilapidations provisions, we compared managements number of factors including duration of the lease, estimations estimates to either correspondence of amounts to be paid where of costs and future income potential and as such, was an area stores have been vacated, or in the case of stores yet to be vacated, offocus for us.
historical amounts incurred by the Group for similar stores previously vacated and confirmed that managements estimates were in line with previous experience or were supported by communication from landlords or property consultants.
We performed an independent assessment of whether provisions were required through review of the schedule of leases and comparing these to the individual stores contribution.
The work we performed indicated that management have sufficient provisions held for property matters at 31 August 2016.
Pension scheme valuation Refer to Note 1 o for the directors disclosure on the critical We examined the pension assumptions, including discount accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty rates, salary increases, inflation, and mortality, utilising our and Note 4 Retirement benefit obligations and page 34 for the specialist knowledge of pensions.
We considered and challenged views of the Audit Committee.
the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions comparing the discount and inflation rates used to our internally developed The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which comprise benchmark ranges, finding them to be within an acceptable range.
total plan assets of 1,424m and total pension liabilities of 1,260m.
The valuation of the schemes liabilities requires a significant level of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions including inflation, discount rates and mortality can have a material impact on the position as disclosed in Note 4 of the financial statements.
We focused on this area because of the impact of the judgements inherent in the actuarial assumptions involved in the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
WH Smith PLC 62 Annual report and accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed the going concern basis is appropriate.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, ability to continue as a going concern.
and the industry in which the Group operates.
Other required reporting WH Smith PLC comprises two operating segments, High Street and Travel, and one central function.
Within the two operating Consistency of other information segments there are 15 entities, ten of which are UK, Ireland and Companies Act 2006 reporting Channel Island based and five are overseas in Hong Kong, France, In our opinion: Qatar, Spain and Australia.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors We performed full scope audits on the UK, Ireland and report for the financial year for which the financial statements Channel Island entities of the two operating segments, and the are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: The entities where we performed full scope audits accounted for 98per cent of profit before tax and the entities where we the information given in the Corporate governance statement performed full scope audits or specific audit procedures set out as set out on pages 30 to 56 with respect to internal accounted for 95 per cent of revenue.
control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of ISAs UK & Ireland reporting materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to inour opinion: determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent information in the Annual report is: We have no of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement exceptions to report.
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of materially inconsistent with the misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements information in the audited financial as a whole.
statements: or Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our for the financial statements as a whole as follows: knowledge of the Group acquired in the Overall Group materiality 6.5m.
course of performing our audit: or How we determined it Five per cent of profit before tax.
Rationale for We have applied this the statement given by the directors on We have no benchmarkapplied benchmark, a generally page 35, in accordance with provision exceptions to report.
accepted auditing practice, in C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance the absence of indicators that Code the Code, that they consider an alternative benchmark would the Annual report taken as a whole to be appropriate.
be fair, balanced and understandable We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them and provides the information necessary misstatements identified during our audit above 325,000 as well for members to assess the Groups as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted performance, business model and reporting for qualitative reasons.
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in Going concern the course of performing our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the section of the Annual report We have no statement, set out on page 56, in relation to going concern.
on pages33 to 36, as required by exceptions to report.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we does not appropriately address have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation matters communicated by us to the to the directors statement about whether they considered it Audit Committee.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 63 report governance statements information The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of Responsibilities for the financial statements and the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity the audit of the Group Our responsibilities and those of the directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we As explained more fully in the Statement of directors have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: responsibilities set out on page 57, the directors are responsible the directors confirmation on page 20 We have nothing for the preparation of the financial statements and for being of the Annual report, in accordance with material to add or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have to draw attention to.
carried out a robust assessment of the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the principal risks facing the Group, including financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs those that would threaten its business UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the model, future performance, solvency Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
or liquidity This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the disclosures in the Annual report that We have nothing only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with describe those risks and explain how they material to add or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other are being managed or mitigated.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the directors explanation on page 24 of We have nothing responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the Annual Report, in accordance with material to add or whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they to draw attention to.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why What an audit of financial statements involves they consider that period to be appropriate, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and and their statement as to whether they have disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give a reasonable expectation that the Group reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free will be able to continue in operation and from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the This includes an assessment of: period of their assessment, including any whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups related disclosures drawing attention to any circumstances and have been consistently applied and necessary qualifications or assumptions.
adequately disclosed: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the bythe directors: and principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement the overall presentation of the financial statements.
in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted directors judgements against available evidence, forming of making inquiries and considering the directors process our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the supporting their statements: checking that the statements financial statements.
are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the We test and examine information, using sampling and other knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide We have nothing to report having performed our review.
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive Adequacy of information and explanations received procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is report arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Directors remuneration with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements Corporate governance statement of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2016 and on the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you information in the Directors remuneration report that is described if, in our opinion, a Corporate governance statement has not been as having been audited.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions London, UK of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
