William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditor's report to the members of William Hill PLC Opinion on financial statements of William Hill PLC 94 In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 27 December 2016 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Statement of Group Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 34: and the Parent Company Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 12.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks Consistent with last year, the key risks that we identified were: impairment of goodwill and non-current assets: completeness and accuracy of revenue recognition in Retail and Online: unrecorded retirements in capitalised software: and valuation of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 10.5 million which was determined on the basis of less than 5% of adjusted profit before tax of 214.0 million.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope on audit work at three locations: UK, Gibraltar and Australia.
These locations represent the principal business segments and accounts for over 97% of the Groups revenue, over 95% of operating profit and 96% of the Groups net assets.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies in the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the 95 solvency or liquidity of the Group Financial statements As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention statement on page 59 regarding the appropriateness of the going to in respect of these matters.
concern basis of accounting and the directors statement on the We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be We are required to state whether we have anything material to predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability add or draw attention to in relation to: to continue as a going concern.
the directors' confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 41-44 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention toany necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
There were no significant changes to the scope of our audit in the current year, or to the key risks identified.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditor's report to the members of William Hill PLC continued Impairment of goodwill and non-current assets 96 Risk description The Group has goodwill of 1,209.5m and intangible assets with indefinite lives of 484.3m which is tested annually for impairment against value in use of the Groups cash generating units Retail, Online, Stadia, US and Australia.
The annual impairment test is a complex process requiring significant management judgement and is based on key assumptions about future profitability and cash flows, selecting appropriate discount and long-term growth rates, which are disclosed in key sources of estimation uncertainty, in note 12 of the Group financial statements, and is a significant matter considered by the Audit Committee on page 63.
Our risk is focused on the sensitivity to those key assumptions used in the Groups impairment review, and the ultimate recoverability of goodwill, and non-current assets and the related disclosures.
How the scope of our Our work focused on evaluating the design and implementation of key controls in this area and challenging the audit responded to following key assumptions used by management in conducting their impairment review: the risk agreement of cash flow assumptions to Board-approved forecasts: validating the reasonableness of the cash flow forecasts by comparing value in use to the Groups market value: assessing managements historical budgeting accuracy: challenge of short-term growth rates used in the Groups and components forecasts by reference to current performance and plans: consideration of the appropriateness of long-term growth rates by comparison to independent growth expectations for each country of operation: and using our internal valuation specialists to independently calculate appropriate discount rates for comparison with those used by management.
We carried out sensitivity analysis on managements model to challenge the key assumptions outlined above, aswell as reflecting severe, but reasonably possible alternative future scenarios.
From the result of our procedures, we did not identify any impairment of goodwill and non-current assets for the Groups cash generating units.
Completeness and accuracy of revenue recognition in Retail and Online Risk description The Group has a number of income streams, the most significant being revenue recognised in the Group's Retail 893.9m and Online 544.8m divisions.
Revenue is derived from high volume and typically lower value transactions and is dependent on the outcome of events wagered on.
The Groups accounting policy for revenue recognition is disclosed in Key Accounting Policies on page 104.
The completeness and accuracy of revenue recognised is dependent on the interfacing of systems in Retail and Online segments, and is reliant on the IT control environment of third-party applications such as Openbet.
Due to the complexity of the environment, there is a risk that revenue errors go undetected or are not detected on a timely basis.
How the scope of our Together with our IT audit specialists we tested the operating effectiveness of both automated and manual audit responded to controls in the revenue cycle including cash reconciliations from the betting operating systems.
General IT the risk controls were tested for key revenue and financial information systems involved in the revenue process, as well as the interface between these systems.
We performed substantive analytical review procedures over the Groups Retail and Online gaming revenue streams, and substantively tested the existence and accuracy of a sample of bets placed within the Retail division.
For Online Sportsbook revenues we used a data analytics approach to fully recalculate all simple bets, which comprise over 83% of revenue recognised.
For the remainder, which comprised more complex bets, we recalculated a sample of bets.
Our work was concluded satisfactorily.
Unrecorded retirements in capitalised software Risk description As disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements, 55.6m of computer software additions has been capitalised in 2016 as the Group continues to invest in its technology.
The net book value of computer software assets at thebalance sheet date was 98.2m.
This continued investment in software development gives rise to a risk that existing assets are made obsolete by new technology and should be retired before expiry of their useful economic lives.
In addition, there is a risk that capital projects do not deliver the benefits intended, and should be impaired.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over audit responded to impairment and the capitalisation of costs.
the risk We tested a sample of capitalised software additions, assessing the business case holding discussions with project managers and reviewing internal audit and capital expenditure reports to determine whether new assets created replaced existing assets and indicated a risk of impairment or revised useful life for those existing assets.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Risks that provisions for uncertain tax positions are not valued correctly 97 Risk description The way in which William Hill organises its operations in different jurisdictions requires management to make Financial statements judgements and estimates in relation to interpretation of local tax laws and potential tax provisions and exposures.
A description of key sources of estimation uncertainty used in relation to taxation is included in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies, and is a significant matter considered by the Audit Committee as set out on page 63.
How the scope of our Our audit approach was to use our tax specialists to evaluate the tax provisions recorded by management and audit responded to potential tax exposures.
We challenged managements judgements utilising tax specialists in the UK, Australia the risk and Gibraltar using their experience in country-specific tax law and experience in similar structures and operations.
In assessing those judgements taken we also considered relevant correspondence with tax authorities.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 10.5m 2015: 12.0m Basis for determining Our Group materiality is below 5% 2015: below 5% of adjusted profit before interest and tax, disclosed in note 3 materiality to the Group financial statements.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before interest and tax has been used as it is the primary measure of performance used benchmark applied by the Group.
We have used adjusted profit measures that exclude volatility of exceptional items from our determination, to aid the consistency and comparability of our materiality base each year.
Materiality equates to 6% of profit before tax 2015: 6% and below 1% 2015: 1% of equity.
Following us reassessing the levels at which we would report to the Audit Committee, we discussed and agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2015: 0.2m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at three locations: UK: Gibraltar: and Australia.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for over 97% 2015: over 97% of the Groups revenue, over 95% of operating profit 2015: over 96% and over 96% 2015: over 97% of the Groups net assets.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work on each of the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 5.3m to 7.9m 2015: 6.0m to 7.8m.
The Group audit team also performed analytical procedures over the Groups operations in the US, which were not significant to the Groups results.
At the Parent entity level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing and discuss their risk assessment.
The audit procedures in the UK were performed by members of the Group audit team.
In the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor visited both Australia and Gibraltar.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group audit team discussed audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviewed relevant audit working papers.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditor's report to the members of William Hill PLC continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception 98 We have nothing to Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to Directors remuneration report arising from Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to Corporate Governance Statement report arising from Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating our review.
tothe Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We confirm that we Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report have not identified any Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, such inconsistencies or information in the Annual Report is: misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquiredin the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Franek FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 February 2017
