Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Opinion on the financial statements of Whitbread PLC the directors explanation on page 46 as to how they have In our opinion: assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able as at 3 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they then ended: fall due over the period of their assessment, including any the Group financial statements have been properly prepared related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary in accordance with International Financial Reporting qualifications or assumptions.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Independence the parent Company financial statements have been We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting properly prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our the financial statements have been prepared in accordance other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the prohibited nonaudit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The financial statements comprise the consolidated income The key risks we identified were: statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, revenue recognition: the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the defined benefit obligation: and parent Company balance sheet, Group related notes 1 to 33 management override of controls.
and the parent Company related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation The assessed risks of material misstatement described below of the Group financial statements is applicable law and are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework efforts of the engagement team.
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and Financial The description of risks below should be read in conjunction Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 71 to 73.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Group of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the on these matters.
going concern basis of accounting contained within the directors report on page 96 and the directors statement Risk Revenue recognition on the longerterm viability of the Group contained within We focused on this area due to the significant value of revenue to the strategic report on page 46. the Group, 2.9bn 2015: 2.6bn.
The main revenue streams comprise a high volume of low value transactions in accommodation, restaurants and food and beverage sales.
The risk around revenue is focused We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern on adjustments to revenue outside of these transactional amounts, basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material for example in respect of loyalty schemes and franchise fees.
However, because not all future events or See Note 3, page 116. conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee How the scope of our audit responded to the risk as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
To address this risk we have performed the following procedures: Significant risk areas: we tested a sample of manual journal entries We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in posted to revenue and verified to supporting documentation to relation to: confirm the entry was valid and appropriate.
For loyalty schemes we have tested the redemption rate calculation, agreed the the directors confirmation on page 46 that they have number of loyalty points outstanding to thirdparty evidence and carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing reperformed the liability calculation.
For franchise income we have recalculated the deferred revenue based on agreements the Group, including those that would threaten its business with franchisees.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: We have also performed the following other procedures over revenue: the disclosures on pages 48 and 49 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Controls testing: we tested the controls over revenue including those in the IT systems that support the recording of revenue: the directors statement within the directors report on Analytical reviews: we have performed substantive analytical page 96 about whether they considered it appropriate to procedures on the major revenue streams: and adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Tests of details: we used analytical software to perform substantive them and their identification of any material uncertainties tests of detail for a sample of the revenue balance by reconciling to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period source data for each sample to the general ledger and cash receipts.
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 accounts 2015 16 99 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Risk Defined benefit obligation our tax audit specialists assessed the principles applied to compute We have focused on this risk due to the size of the net deficit, 288.1m the deferred tax balances and performed detailed testing of the 2015: 553.8m.
The actuarial assumptions, such as discount rate, deferred tax balance with consideration of the judgements made: inflation and mortality, used to value the defined benefit pension analysis of adjustments to revenue separately identified as a scheme obligation are judgemental, and a small change in assumptions significant risk please see above : and outside of the requirements of IAS 19 R Employee Benefits may result in a material difference to the liability.
challenge and assessment of journal postings exhibiting key characteristics of fraud and or management override to determine The Group engages independent actuaries to assist in its assessment whether they represent valid journals.
of the defined benefit obligation.
We considered each of these areas individually for evidence of How the scope of our audit responded to the risk management bias in the context of the Groups control environment To address this risk we performed the following procedures: and IT systems, and also performed an overall assessment as to whether there was any cumulative bias across the consolidated Actuarial assumptions: our actuarial audit specialists challenged the financial statements.
key assumptions used by the Groups actuaries in the valuation of the pension scheme by using external data to benchmark against market practice to assess their appropriateness in calculating the scheme Our application of materiality assets and liabilities.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement This included comparison of the discount rate and inflation assumption in the financial statements that makes it probable that the with external market data and benchmarking mortality assumptions economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person against standard mortality tables.
We also tested the information would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in provided to the actuaries: and planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the Asset values: we have verified pension plan assets and values held to results of our work.
external confirmations from relevant fund managers.
We have tested the rollforward of plan asset values to the yearend date.
We have reperformed valuations of quoted funds.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 25.0m, which is below 1% of revenue, below 5% of profit before tax, and below 2% of equity.
Risk Management override of controls There are a number of judgements across the consolidated financial Our audit work at each location was executed at levels of statements which are not significant individually, but which could be materiality applicable to each individual entity which were in combination.
lower than Group materiality and ranged from 0.5m to 20.0m.
We therefore focused on management override of controls in particular in relation to potential management bias in key judgements which include: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to residual values and useful economic lives UELs of fixed assets Note 2 : the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted fixed asset impairments Note 15 : reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit property provisions Note 23 : Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when valuation of the defined benefit pension liability Note 31 : assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
assessment of deferred tax Note 9 : and judgemental items in revenue Note 4.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of Certain of these are included in the Groups assessment of the significant the Group and its environment, including Groupwide controls, accounting judgements and estimates as disclosed in Note 2 of the and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group consolidated financial statements.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit How the scope of our audit responded to the risk scope primarily on the audit work at five components: To address the risk we have performed the following procedures: WHR UK, Costa UK, Costa Poland, Costa Shanghai and WHRI.
we have sample tested the residual values and UELs associated The first four of these were subject to a full audit where the with categories of assets, including benchmarking to industry data extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks and using information provided by the Whitbread property of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups department, and tested the mechanical accuracy of the depreciation model and assumptions: operations at those locations and WHRI was subject to review procedures performed by the Group audit team.
These we tested fixed asset impairments by assessing the assumptions in the business plans, growth rates, discount rates with the assistance of locations represent the principal business units and together valuations experts and key risks to the plan that could impact fixed account for 99.5% of the Groups revenue and 96.9% of the asset impairment: Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide we agreed property provisions to underlying contracts and purchase an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address prices to valuers reports and performed sensitivity analysis on the the risks of material misstatement identified above.
main assumptions, including discount rates, estimates of future sub lease income and periods of nonuse: At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation we benchmarked the key assumptions used in the valuation of the process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm defined benefit pension liability separately identified as a significant risk please see above : our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 accounts 2015 16 100 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 was focused at least once every two years and the most In particular, we are required to consider whether we have significant of them at least once a year.
In the current year identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge we visited China and Poland.
In years when we do not visit acquired during the audit and the directors statement a significant component we will include the component that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and audit team in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately and review documentation of the findings from their work.
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any Act 2006 such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the directors remuneration report to be As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities audited has been properly prepared in accordance with statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation the Companies Act 2006: and of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they the information given in the strategic report and the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and directors report for the financial year for which the express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance financial statements are prepared is consistent with the with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing financial statements.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology Matters on which we are required to report by exception and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records and systems include our dedicated professional standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report review team and independent partner reviews.
to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, we have not received all the information and explanations as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the we require for our audit: or Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken adequate accounting records have not been kept by the so that we might state to the Companys members those parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have matters we are required to state to them in an auditors not been received from branches not visited by us: or report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the parent Company financial statements are not in to anyone other than the Company and the Companys agreement with the accounting records and returns.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors remuneration An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free remuneration have not been made or the part of the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or directors remuneration report to be audited is not in error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting agreement with the accounting records and returns.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Corporate governance statement accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read part of the corporate governance statement relating to the all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report financial statements and to identify any information that is arising from our review.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information implications for our report.
in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Nicola Mitchell fca apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Senior statutory auditor inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, in the course of performing our audit: or Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor otherwise misleading.
London 25 April 2016 Whitbread Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 accounts 2015 16 101
