WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 97 report governance statements information Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Company financial statements in our opinion: the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as require for our audit: or at 31 August 2016: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Companies Act 2006. remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with theaccounting records and returns.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual report and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
accounts the Annual report, comprise: Directors remuneration the Company balance sheet as at 31 August 2016: Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the ended: and Companies Act 2006. the Notes to the Company balance sheet, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Other Companies Act 2006 reporting explanatory information.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report in the Annual report, rather than in the Notes to the financial arising from this responsibility.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Responsibilities for the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the andthe audit preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Our responsibilities and those of the directors United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsibilities set out on page 57, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Other required reporting satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Consistency of other information Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Companies Act 2006 opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to information in the Annual report is: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
WH Smith PLC 98 Annual report and accounts 2016 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements ofWH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2016.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, UK 13 October 2016
