Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 47 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual report and Financial Statements the Annual report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 January 2016: the Company balance sheet as at 31 January 2016: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 12m which represents 5% of Underlying profit before tax 2015: 17.25m.
Audit scope The Group engagement team conducted the majority of our audit work in the UK, with specified procedures Materiality undertaken by a PwC component auditor in the Isle of Man.
In addition, a PwC component audit team undertook a full scope audit of the UK Manufacturing subsidiaries.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our work accounted for 99% of Group revenues.
Areas of focus Audit scope Impairment of property.
Onerous lease provisions and onerous property commitments.
Commercial income and promotional funding.
Capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets.
focus The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at areas where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 48 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Impairment of property Value in use Refer to note 3.1 Accounting policies, page 59 Critical accounting Our audit procedures included a detailed evaluation of the Groups budgeting estimates and judgements and note 3.3 Property, plant and equipment.
procedures upon which forecasts underlying the value in use calculations are based and an assessment of managements discounted cash flow models.
We tested the The Group has a large freehold store estate 5,966m at 31 January 2016. mathematical accuracy of the calculations derived from each forecast model and Given the challenging trading conditions in the UK grocery retail market assessed key inputs in the calculations such as the discount rate of 9%, by reference in recent years and subsequent adverse impact on the market value of to managements forecasts, industry reports and our valuation experts.
We focused traditional supermarket freehold stores, the possibility of impairment of on these key assumptions because small changes can have a material impact on the these assets is an area of focus for management.
value in use assessment and any resultant impairment charge.
We found, based on Management considers each store to be a cash generating unit CGU our audit work, that the key assumptions used by management were supportable and has calculated the recoverable amount of each CGU as the higher and appropriate in light of the current environment.
of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Fair value less costs of disposal Value in use Management has determined their own view of estimated rental values and yields Value in use is based on discounted future cash flow forecasts, requiring for each store used in their calculation of market values.
Management derived these management to make judgements on certain key inputs including, for assumptions having considered available information such as industry data on market example, discount rates and long term growth rates.
conditions, purchase offers recently received for properties and information from an independent third party valuer.
We evaluated managements supporting information, Fair value less costs of disposal including the third party valuation, and assessed this for reasonableness using our Fair value less costs of disposal is estimated by management based on own Real Estate experts, with a particular focus on the assumptions and methodology their knowledge of individual stores, likely demand from grocers or used obtaining third party evidence and market data to corroborate the assumptions.
other retailers in the event those stores were for sale and is further We also evaluated the competency, qualifications, experience and objectivity of informed by a valuation performed by a third party valuer.
The key managements property valuation experts and noted no issues.
We determined that judgements made by the Directors in this fair value calculation relate to the valuations performed by management are reasonable.
the estimated rental values and the yields of the stores.
In addition, we evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 3.3 of the In the prior year an impairment charge of 1,113m was recognised in financial statements, including those regarding the key assumptions and sensitivities respect of freehold property.
Management has calculated that no further to changes in such assumptions by comparing the disclosures against the requirements impairment is required in the current year.
We focused on this area of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and found them to be consistent.
because of the judgemental factors involved in reaching this conclusion, and the significant carrying value of freehold property.
Onerous lease provisions Onerous lease provisions and onerous property commitments Having considered the possibility of impairment in the value of freehold properties Refer to note 5.1 Accounting policies, page 59 Critical accounting see above, we also tested managements calculations in respect of leasehold stores estimates and judgements and note 5.5. where the estimated future benefits are not expected to exceed the future lease Onerous lease provisions commitments, resulting in an onerous lease.
Accounting standards require management to assess the Groups leasehold properties to identify where the expected future benefits We obtained managements onerous lease model, which includes all their leased stores, from a property are less than the future lease commitments which and tested the accuracy and completeness of key data by agreeing inputs such as would indicate that an onerous lease provision is required.
Under IAS 37 individual store cash flows, store locations, which helps provide an insight into store Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets such a provision is profitability, and lease expiry dates for a sample of stores to the original signed lease made for the unavoidable costs of the contract, defined in the standard agreements, noting no issues.
as the least net cost of exit.
We evaluated the Groups budgeting procedures upon which forecasts are based and assessed the principles of the Groups discounted cash flow model, noting no We focused on this area because of the judgements required to be made exceptions.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculation derived from each by management in identifying those stores requiring an onerous lease forecast model and assessed key inputs in the calculations such as revenue growth and provision and the assumptions used in the models, such as the discount discount rate, by reference to managements forecasts, analyst reports and our own rate and those used in developing the associated cash flow forecasts.
Real Estate experts, with no issues noted.
The discount rate used is consistent with Onerous property commitments the Groups cost of debt and the requirements of IAS 37.
The Group has a number of sites that they are contractually committed Onerous property commitments to purchase.
Where management believes that an adverse outcome In respect of onerous property commitments, we obtained managements calculations would result from developing the store, a provision is made.
There are and considered the accuracy of these provisions by performing recalculations judgements involved in determining the expected realisable value of and testing key inputs such as estimates of lease exit costs.
We considered the these sites and therefore this has been an area of focus during our audit.
completeness of these provisions by reviewing documentation in relation to these contracts.
We found no issues in this area.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 49 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Commercial income and promotional funding Our audit work in respect of commercial income and promotional funding comprised a Refer to note 1.1 Accounting policies, page 59 Critical accounting combination of controls testing, substantive testing of a sample of income and funding estimates and judgements and notes 1.6,5.2,5.3 and 5.4. recognised during the period, testing of amounts recognised in the balance sheet and an assessment of the Groups disclosures in this area.
Each element of our work is Commercial income considered in more detail below.
The Group has two categories of commercial income: marketing and Controls testing advertising funding and volume based rebates on purchases.
Our controls work encompassed understanding, evaluating and testing managements Commercial income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales and key controls in respect of the recognition of both commercial income and promotional is earned over the period of the contractual agreements with individual funding.
These key controls included the monitoring of invoices raised and the suppliers, as disclosed in the Groups accounting policy on page 60.
The accuracy of confirmations from suppliers.
We found no significant deficiencies in these total income recognised in the income statement in a year is based on key controls, and our testing of managements key system controls contributed to our the expected entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under evidence in determining whether commercial income and promotional funding had each supplier agreement and requires management to apply judgement been recorded appropriately and in the correct period.
based on the contractual terms in place with each of its suppliers Income statement testing together with estimates of amounts the Group is entitled to where We requested confirmations directly from suppliers, in respect of a sample of transactions span the financial period end.
commercial income and promotional funding.
The confirmations received allowed us to The relative level of judgement in each category of commercial income evaluate whether commercial income or promotional funding had been appropriately is considered below: recognised in the period, as well as assessing the validity of accruals made at the period Commercial income marketing and advertising funding end.
We noted a small number of exceptions in our testing, which were manual input This income is varied with regards to the nature and timing of the errors and not areas of judgement, and resulted in a 22,500 net over recognition of activity to which it relates, and is recognised in accordance with promotional funding 31,700 of errors resulting in over recognition net of 9,200 errors written agreements with suppliers.
This income is based on specific resulting in under recognition.
The net over recognition represented 0.02% of the total agreements, and its recognition requires limited judgement or estimation sample of invoices.
by management in determining the amount that the Group is entitled We also analysed commercial income and promotional funding recognised each to.
Our focus was on assessing whether a written agreement for month and compared it to the previous period to identify whether there were any the marketing and advertising funding existed, whether the relevant unusual trends in the amounts or timing of commercial income and promotional marketing or advertising had taken place and whether the income funding recognised in each period.
We also considered managements Key Performance recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
Indicators in this analysis, including the aging profile of accrued and deferred income and levels of cash collection.
No unusual trends were identified.
Commercial income volume based rebates Volume based rebates are driven by the Group achieving purchase Balance sheet testing volume targets set by individual suppliers for specific products over We wrote to a sample of suppliers, and obtained independent evidence of the value a pre-determined period.
There is therefore judgement involved and timing of commercial income and promotional funding to evaluate whether it had in estimating the volume of purchases, particularly where rebate been recognised in the correct period.
We also agreed a sample of accrued income agreements span a financial period end.
In order to narrow this to evidence of post-year end cash receipt, or offset from trade creditors, where judgement, management endeavours to structure agreements to relevant.
We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further coincide with the Groups financial period end, thereby reducing or evidence to support the timing of the recognition of both commercial income and eliminating the degree of estimation.
In instances where the rebate promotional funding.
Cut-off work involved testing a sample of commercial income agreement does not fully coincide with the period end the key and promotional funding recognised both pre and post the period end and evaluating judgement that we focused on was the estimate of commercial income by reference to documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was to be accrued at the period end.
We found no issues as a result of our audit procedures.
Promotional funding Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the period end in order The Group separately recognises promotional funding on promotions to identify any instances of commercial income or promotional funding being that are partially funded by suppliers.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
We tested Promotional funding is an automated deduction from cost of sales, the recoverability of invoiced commercial income and promotional funding unsettled triggered when a sale is recognised.
The funding is recognised when the balances included within trade debtors in note 5.3 to the financial statements and transaction occurs in accordance with the terms of supplier agreements.
where the Group does not have the right of offset against trade creditors.
This The amount receivable is wholly based on sales volumes achieved, testing was performed by agreeing a sample to proof of settlement post year end.
multiplied by rates agreed with each supplier up-front.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding commercial income and promotional funding debtors together with understanding the details of any disputes, and obtained We focused on promotional funding because of the significance of explanations from management to assess whether any provisions were appropriate.
the amounts to the Groups gross profit, the significant number of No exceptions were noted.
transactions and agreements in place with suppliers covering a range of periods and the industry wide focus on this area of accounting.
However Disclosures we acknowledge that the level of judgement and subjectivity in the We read the disclosures within the Annual report in respect of commercial income calculations is lower because of the level of automation.
Our focus was and promotional funding and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent on whether a written agreement for the promotional funding existed, with accounting standards and the guidance on the reporting of complex supplier whether the relevant promotion had taken place, and whether the arrangements issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
funding recognised was recorded in the appropriate period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 50 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets We tested a sample of costs capitalised in the period to assess whether these had Refer to note 3.1 Accounting policies and page 59 Critical accounting been appropriately treated in line with the Groups accounting policy and accounting estimates and judgements.
standards, most notably IAS 38 Intangible assets.
We met with management responsible for particular costs to obtain an understanding of the associated projects The Group balance sheet includes capitalised intangible assets of 483m, and to independently assess whether project costs met the criteria for capitalisation of which the majority relates to software development costs incurred as set out in accounting standards.
We found the explanations obtained from in connection with the Groups IT improvement programme, details management to be consistent with our understanding of developments in the business of which are shown on page 71 of the Annual report.
The Group has and supported managements assessment that the costs met the relevant capitalisation developed a significant amount of its own software and systems that is criteria.
Where external third party contractors were used, we agreed the hours and charge out We focused on this area because of the significance of the costs rates to the invoices issued by the contractor, and assessed whether the costs were capitalised and the fact that there is judgement involved in assessing directly related to a capital project, with no exceptions noted.
whether the criteria, set out in accounting standards, required for To determine whether internal employee costs were directly attributable to projects, capitalisation of such costs have been met, including the likelihood of the we obtained listings of hours worked on individual projects for the employment costs project delivering sufficient future economic benefits.
We selected a sample of the individual hours recorded and obtained an incurred are internally generated for example employee costs there is understanding of the work performed by the employee.
We also checked that the further judgement required in the calculation, such as the accuracy of hours charged equated to the value of costs capitalised by comparing the proportion amount of time spent on the projects.
of costs capitalised to the employees salary, without exception.
In light of the development of new software and systems, we also We obtained managements assessment as to whether the development of new focused on whether the carrying value of existing capitalised software software or systems superseded or impaired any of the existing assets on the balance or systems was impaired.
We also applied our own understanding of both new and existing projects and considered whether, in our view, any existing software was no longer in use or whether its life had been shortened by development activity.
We re-visited the expected costs budgeted by management within the cost benefit analysis and compared them to actual outcomes in the current period and we assessed the future expected benefits of the projects, with no issues identified from our work.
Overall we found that the costs capitalised were supportable and consistent with the requirements of accounting standards for capitalising such costs.
No material impairment of the intangible assets was identified from our work.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 51 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Stock valuation We attended stock counts throughout the period at a sample of the Groups Refer to note 5.1 Accounting policies, page 59 Critical accounting supermarkets, distribution centres and manufacturing locations.
In addition to estimates and judgements and note 5.2. performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of the count controls in operation at each site.
We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts performed The valuation of stock of 616m 2015: 658m was focused on because by management and third parties throughout the period to assess the level of count of the nature of the judgements made by management when assessing variances.
We found no material variances or control deficiencies across these sites.
the level of provisions required.
As disclosed in note 5.1 to the financial We tested managements shrinkage assumptions determined by the count procedures statements, provisions are held against stock for estimated losses related and their comparison of this to historical data.
The historical data included the results to shrinkage and obsolescence as well as a deduction for unearned of the recent counts at each location, and our analytical procedures did not identify commercial income as the stock related to that commercial income any significant unusual fluctuations in the data.
and promotional funding has yet to be sold.
When the stock is sold the commercial income and or promotional funding is recognised in the The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental percentage to the income statement.
period end stock levels, with this judgement being informed by historical data on the levels of obsolescence as well as managements view of the current stock profile and As stock is counted by the Group on a cyclical basis, rather than in full at age.
We considered this provision by assessing the accuracy of the historical data versus the period end date, the shrinkage provision at 31 January 2016 contains a actual outcomes, and assessing the explanations provided by management on the degree of estimation.
current profile and age, noting no issues.
We tested the unearned commercial income deduction by performing a recalculation using the profile of period end stock and the trends of commercial income historically received, with no issues noted.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a group finance function at its head office in Bradford.
Within the head office, supporting finance functions exist for each of the key business operating areas Group, Supermarkets including Manufacturing and Property, and these report to the group finance team as appropriate.
The Group also maintains local finance teams at each of its key manufacturing sites.
Other than group reporting from a component audit team from a PwC member firm in the Isle of Man auditing specific account balances within Farock Insurance Company Limited, and from a PwC component team from the UK firm auditing the complete financial information of a UK Manufacturing subsidiary, Wm Produce Limited, both of which operated under our instructions, all work was conducted in the UK by the same Group audit team.
Where the work was performed by the component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
As part of our year end audit procedures, we held detailed discussions with the Isle of Man and UK Manufacturing component audit teams, including holding a detailed planning meeting with them and attending the audit clearance meeting with management by conference call Isle of Man or in person UK Manufacturing.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 52 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 12m 2015: 17.25m.
How we determined it 5% of Underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark because, in our view, this is the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
Underlying profit is defined by management as profit before impairment, onerous lease provisions and other similar items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis, profit loss arising on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses and IAS 19 pension interest, at a normalised tax rate, as reconciled in note 1.4 of the Group financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 600,000 2015: 875,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 21 and the Directors report on pages 44 to 46 for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 22 to 32 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 53 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual report is: We have no materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or exceptions to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 46, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no Code the Code, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable exceptions to report.
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual report on page 28, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 17 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they We have nothing have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its material to add or business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the Directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how We have nothing they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period material to add or to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to to draw attention to.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Financial statements 54 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC continued Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 46, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 9 March 2016
