GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Wizz Air Holdings plcs group financial statements the financial statements : E give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: E have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and E have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: E the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2016: E the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: E the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: E the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and E the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality E Overall group materiality: 10.1 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope E The group financial statements are a consolidation of Wizz Air Holdings plc, the trading subsidiary Wizz Air Hungary Kft and a number of insignificant intermediate holding, small trading, dormant and ceased operation companies.
E The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is largely centralised in Hungary where the majority of our audit work was performed.
E Our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the significant components.
Areas of focus E Aircraft maintenance provisioning.
E Net presentation of government taxes and other similar levies.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 64 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Aircraft maintenance provisioning We evaluated the integrity of the maintenance The group operates aircraft, which are held under provision system MPS and tested the operating lease arrangements, and incurs liabilities for calculations therein.
This included assessing the maintenance during the term of the lease.
Provisions process by which the variable factors within the arise from legal and contractual obligations relating to provision were estimated, evaluating the the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the the lessor.
input data and re-performing calculations.
We Maintenance provisions of 83.7 million for aircraft found no significant issues in the MPS input data maintenance costs in respect of operating leased aircraft or the calculated maintenance assets and are recorded in the financial statements at 31 March 2016 provisions.
The basis for these calculations was refer to note 29 to the financial statements.
found to be consistent with prior periods and in For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, line with the detailed accounting policy set out in the group is contractually committed to either return note 2. the aircraft in a certain condition or to compensate the We compared the cost assumptions in the MPS to lessor based on the actual condition of the aircraft and recent invoices, inspected future flight schedules its major components upon return.
and approved maintenance plans as well as Provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs validated current flight hours and flight cycles to of specific future obligations created by the lease at non-financial data sources.
We found no material the time when such obligation becomes certain.
This is exceptions from these procedures and estimates.
when the respective aircraft component no longer We read new or amended aircraft lease contracts meets the lease re-delivery conditions.
Commonly and validated the updated MPS input data.
We there is a warranty period for components at the start, focused our testing on the current year during which no obligation arises: provisioning only amendments to the Fleet Hour Agreement FHA.
commences after this warranty period.
Specifically this year, we focused our testing on At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the the accounting for additional spare engine credits.
maintenance provision, derived from the maintenance We agreed the fair value of the engine credits to provision system MPS, includes a number of variable market value and ensured the appropriate factors and assumptions including: likely utilisation of accounting as spare engines were received.
the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance We found no material exceptions from check and the time it is expected to occur: the condition these procedures.
of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
We tested modifications to the original purchase Modifications to these contracts represents changes in agreement with Airbus and IAE.
Our testing of the accounting estimates and are adjusted prospectively.
changes from MPS to the amended purchase A focus for the audit was to confirm that all agreement found no material exceptions from amendments to the Fleet Hour Agreement FHA these modifications and changes in estimates.
which modifies the number of hours before heavy maintenance are required and impacts future costs, are updated in the MPS as a change in estimate.
The company leases a large volume of aircraft and has received a certain number of spare engines free of charge, the value of which was allocated to all engines proportionately and released over their lease period netted against the aircraft rental expense.
As the aircraft and spare engines are received by the company over a period of time, the deferred income for the discount and spare engine asset value is recognised at the time the aircraft is received.
We focused on maintenance provisioning because of the inherent level of management judgement required in calculating the amount of provision that is considered appropriate as a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable factors and assumptions.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 65 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Hedge and derivative accounting We evaluated the processes, procedures and controls The group uses derivative financial instruments in respect of the groups treasury and other options to hedge transaction currency comprising management functions which directly impact the fuel, leasing and maintenance US dollar payments relevant account balances and transactions.
We and jet fuel price risks.
tested managements year-end account At 31 March 2016, derivative financial assets reconciliation process, including cut-off procedures.
amounted to 1.7 million and derivative financial The results of this work allowed us to focus on liabilities were 17.6 million.
Further details are set substantiating the year-end positions recorded in the out in notes 2, 3 and 20 to the financial statements.
We independently obtained We focused on these balances because of their direct confirmations from each of the counterparties materiality to the financial position of the group, the to test the cut-off at the year end.
We found no level of manual involvement in monitoring open, material exceptions from these confirmations.
closed and settled derivatives and the complexity of We assessed the appropriateness of hedge the requirements in order to apply hedge accounting for the derivative financial instruments accounting e. g. timely tailored documentation, and adequate hedge documentation and including details of how hedge effectiveness is effectiveness testing was found to be in place.
We monitored both prospectively and retrospectively.
tested, using independent data-feeds, the fair values being ascribed to those instruments at the year end and noted no significant exceptions.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of derivative financial instruments.
We did not identify any significant issues with the measurement or presentation of the groups derivative financial instruments.
Net presentation of government taxes and other similar levies We read significant new or amended airport The group assesses all charges levied by airports and contracts to validate the correct accounting government authorities to ensure that any amounts treatment of tax or tax-like items.
We found that the recovered from passengers in respect of these treatment adopted was consistent with the criteria charges are appropriately classified within the set out in the groups accounting policies.
We tested charges levied by airports and The groups accounting policy stipulates that where government authorities to ensure appropriate charges levied by airports or government authorities recognition within the income statement.
Our work on a per passenger basis represent a tax in fact or did not identify any inappropriate netted amounts substance, such amounts are presented on a net basis within revenue or airport handling and en-route in the consolidated income statement revenue and charges financial statement line items.
airport handling and en-route charges lines.
In addition, we analysed the costs per passenger, Given the variability of these charges and the investigating significant variances from prior years number of airports and jurisdictions within which the to identify potential non-compliance with the group operates, the assessment of whether these groups accounting policy.
We found no material items constitute taxes in nature is an inherently more exceptions from these procedures.
complex area, requiring a level of judgement.
As such, we focused on whether these charges had been accurately assessed and classified within the financial statements.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 66 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The group operates through Wizz Air Holdings plc and its trading subsidiary Wizz Air Hungary Kft, which includes branch operations in base countries.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of these entities and a number of insignificant intermediate holding, small trading, dormant and ceased operation companies.
The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is centralised in Hungary.
Our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the significant components.
The audit is performed by a single engagement team comprising individuals based in the UK and in Hungary.
The operations are audited by applying their collective knowledge and understanding of the group and its financial reporting processes and controls.
In addition to the standard audit work performed by the engagement team based in Hungary, the UK team members visited the Budapests management team three times during the audit cycle.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach, areas of focus and issues arising from our work.
The UK team members also attended the local clearance meeting in Hungary and all Audit Committee meetings in Switzerland, either in person or via telephone call.
This gave us the evidence we required for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 10.1 million 2016: 9.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with the prior year, we applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4 million 2016: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern The directors have complied with provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and provided a statement in relation to going concern, set out in the Directors report.
The directors have requested that we review the statement on going concern as if the Company were a UK registered company.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 67 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required and voluntary reporting Consistency of other information Opinion on Strategic Report and Directors report The directors voluntarily prepare a Strategic Report and Directors Report in accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we express an opinion on the consistency of that information with the financial statements in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: E information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
E the statement given by the directors on page 63, in accordance with We have no exceptions provision C. 1.1 of the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a to report.
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
E the section of the Annual Report on pages 43 to 45, as required by provision We have no exceptions C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not to report.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: E the directors confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report, in accordance We have nothing with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust material to add or to assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would draw attention to.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
E the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain We have nothing how they are being managed or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
E the directors explanation on pages 59 to 60 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed material to add or to the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why draw attention to.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and we have also reviewed the statement the directors have made in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 68 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Other required and voluntary reporting continued Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
The Corporate Governance Statement includes the information with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures required by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The directors have requested that we report on the consistency of that information with the financial statements.
In our opinion, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 43 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and on pages 60 to 61 about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors remuneration The directors voluntarily prepare a Directors remuneration report in accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the Directors remuneration report specified by the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 63, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: E whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: E the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and E the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 69 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit continued What an audit of financial statements involves continued In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
David Snell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 May 2016 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 70 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 71
