Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 July Wolseleyplc 2016 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company profit and Loss Account, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained and theDirectors within note 2 to the financial statements on page 120 and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Company assessment of the contained within the principal risks and their management section on page 35. principal risks that We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: would threaten the the Directors conrmation on page 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the solvency or liquidity Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: ofthe Company the disclosures on pages 34 to 39 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the Company financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 35 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the of risks of material allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
misstatement The key risks we identied are: Completeness of supplier rebates Goodwill and intangible asset carrying values Inventory valuation Completeness of supplier rebates Risk description As described in the Audit Committee report on page 51 and the Accounting policies in the notes to the Financial Statements on page 78, the Group recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of amounts receivable from suppliers in the form of rebate arrangements.
Where the rebate arrangements are at rate, there is limited judgement.
However, a proportion of the rebate arrangements comprise annual volume rebates, for which the end of the period is often not coterminous with the Groups year-end.
Additionally, in some cases the rebate rises as a portion of purchases as higher quantities or values of the purchases are made.
Judgement is required in estimating the expected level of rebates for the rebate year, driven by the forecast purchase volumes.
This requires a detailed understanding of the specic contractual arrangements themselves as well as complete and accurate source data to apply the arrangements to.
How the scope of We assessed the design and implementation of manual and automated controls over the recording of supplier rebate income.
ouraudit responded Our procedures on supplier rebates included: tothe risk we interviewed a sample of Wolseleys internal buyers to supplement our understanding of the key contractual rebate arrangements: we tested the accuracy of the amounts recognised by agreeing a sample to individual supplier agreements.
We circularised a sample of suppliers to test whether the arrangements recorded were complete: we tested the completeness and accuracy of the inputs to the calculations for recording supplier rebates by agreement to supporting evidence, including historical volume data.
We challenged the assumptions underlying managements estimates of purchase volumes including looking at the historical accuracy of previous estimates and historical purchase trends and recalculation of rebates for a sample of suppliers: we performed margin analysis to understand trends in order to identify apparent anomalies which may indicate potential rebate income errors.
Such anomalies were investigated to assess whether they were indicative of a misapplication of contractual terms or other calculation errors: and we also tested post year-end cash receipts, where relevant, to test the recoverability of amounts recorded.
Wolseley plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Goodwill and intangible asset carrying values Risk description The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets at 31 July 2016 was 1,104m.
Details of the valuation is included by management in the Audit Committee report on page 51 and the Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements in note 1 to the accounts.
Management performs an impairment review under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets on an annual basis and whenever an indication of impairment exists.
A significant risk of material misstatement exists over certain cash generating units CGU as a result of the application of management judgement and estimates in performing the impairment review, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash ows used in the value in use calculation.
In the current year the risk has been identied over CGUs where market conditions have been challenging UK CGUs and or where there has previously been limited headroom Nordic region, Canada PVF and Tobler.
How the scope of Challenge was given to managements identication of CGUs.
ouraudit responded Our audit work on managements impairment review, for the CGUs specified above, included: tothe risk assessment of the design and implementation of the controls relating to the preparation and review of managements impairment models: determining whether the forecasts used had been challenged by the Board and approved by it: challenge of the reasonableness of the assumptions which underpin managements forecasts with reference to recent performance, market conditions and historical trend analysis: assessment of the historical forecasting and budgeting accuracy: testing the integrity of the model using data analytic tools with specic review and challenge, involving our internal valuation specialists, of the discount rates applied for each of the CGUs against the Group weighted average cost of capital and third party data relating to adjustments to be considered to take account of cash ows arising in overseas locations: challenge of managements assessment of the assets recoverable amount and assumptions in determining value in use: and sensitivity analysis on key assumptions based on comparison to readily available economic data, industry data and using our own professional scepticism.
Inventory valuation Risk description The Group had inventory of 2,017m at 31 July 2016, held in distribution centres, warehouses and numerous branches, and across multiple product lines.
Details of its valuation are included in the Audit Committee report on page 51 and the Accounting policies and critical estimates and judgements in the note 1 to the accounts.
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As a result, the Directors apply judgement in determining the appropriate values for slow-moving or obsolete items.
Inventory is net of a provision of 124m which is primarily driven by comparing the level of inventory held to future projected sales.
The provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
Where local systems require manual interfaces and inputs, there is a risk that inappropriate management override and or error may occur.
How the scope of We challenged the appropriateness of managements assumptions applied in calculating the value of the inventory provisions by: ouraudit responded evaluating the design and implementation of key inventory controls operating across the Group, including those at a sample of tothe risk distribution centres, warehouses and branches: attending 89 inventory counts and reconciling the count results to the inventory listings to test the completeness of data: comparing the net realisable value, obtained through a detailed review of sales subsequent to the year-end, to the cost price of a sample of inventories and comparison to the associated provision to assess whether inventory provisions are complete: reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning, and the level of inventory write-offs during the year: and challenging the completeness of inventory provisions through assessing actual and forecast sales of inventory lines to assess whether provisions for slow-moving obsolete stock are valid and complete.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 51.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Our application ofmateriality decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the We determined materiality for the Group to be 40m, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding exceptional items.
profit before tax is a key metric for users of the financial statements and adjusting for exceptional items is to reect the underlying Group to be 40m.
In 2015 the previous auditors applied materiality of 38m based on 5% of profit before tax and We reported all exceptional items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Materiality PBT Group materiality 40m Group materiality 727m 40m Component materiality range 20m to 30m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc continued An overview of the Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, scope of our audit and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at nine locations.
Eight of these were subject to a full audit and one was subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
These nine locations represent the principal business units and account for 96% of the Groups revenue and 86% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identied above.
Revenue profit before tax Net assets Full audit 96% 86% 99% Analytical procedures 4% 14% 1% At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the most significant locations where the Group audit scope was focused every year, being USA, UK and Denmark.
Our visit programme for other locations including Canada and Switzerland is that they are visited at least once every two years.
In years when we do not visit a significant component we will include the component audit partner in our team brieng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
For all components we attend the local close meetings.
Given this was our first year as auditors, we have visited all regions.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of by our engagement the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company: and letter the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records we are required to Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleadingstatements.
Corporate governance Although not required to do so, the Directors have voluntarily chosen to make a corporate governance statement detailing the extent of their compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We reviewed the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Wolseley plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the responsibilities of financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Directors and auditor Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of the financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Ian Waller for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, UK 26 September 2016 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117
