100 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc 1.
Our opinion on the financial Overview statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements Materiality: of Worldpay Group plc for the year ended Group financial 14m 2015: 20m 31 December 2016 set out on pages 106 statements as a whole 5% normalised profit before tax 2015: 0.5% of revenue to 152.
In our opinion: Coverage 80% 2015: 83% of Group profit before tax the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys Risks of material misstatement vs 2015 affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year Recurring risks Transaction-based revenue and settlement balances then ended: the Group financial statements have Trade receivables impairment and related provisions been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Event-driven risks Visa Europe and CVR-related liabilities Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 101 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The risk Our response Transaction-based revenue Data capture: Transaction service charges Our procedures included: and settlement balances revenue is recognised based on the value Control design: Testing general IT controls and nature of transactions processed relating to access to programs and Transaction service charges revenue and the rates agreed with merchants.
data, program change and development 4,037.7m: 2015: 3,508.1m The value of transactions is extracted and computer operations in order from operational IT systems through to address the risk of unauthorised Settlement balances: which payments are processed.
These changes being made to the operation operational IT systems are highly complex of IT application controls.
Merchant float and processed in excess of 14 billion Control design: Testing the design, 1,012.1m: 2015: 696.4m transactions during the year with total implementation and operating gross transaction value in excess of 450bn.
effectiveness of IT application controls, Scheme debtor including controls around customer set 1,821.8m: 2015: 534.5m Processing error IT systems : There up and changes to master data that are is a risk that these systems may not be designed to ensure the appropriate rates Merchant creditor configured correctly from the outset such are assigned to each merchant in the 2,833.9m: 2015: 1,230.9m that revenues and settlement amounts system based on signed contract terms.
are calculated incorrectly, that data does Control re-performance: Testing the Refer to page 74 Corporate governance not correctly flow through the operational operating effectiveness of the manual report, page 114 and Notes 2a and 4a IT systems, and that unauthorised changes controls over the reconciliation of accounting policies and financial may be made to any of these systems, settlement accounts to scheme reports disclosures.
which may result in the misstatement and internally generated reports.
of revenue and settlement balances.
Test of details: On a sample basis vouch items recorded back to source Processing error finance processes : data including: The output from the operational IT systems Examination of cash receipts is used to calculate and record revenue from merchants, third-party and determine settlement balances.
confirmations, or inspection The correct classification of settlement of transaction detail.
balances within the balance sheet is Comparing to source data key dependent upon correctly capturing system inputs from which the the status of all in-progress transactions revenue amounts are derived.
This requires core finance Agreeing scheme debtor, processes accurately reporting on and merchant creditor and merchant reconciling the transactions as reported float amounts to third-party by the IT systems.
confirmations, third party reports, or subsequent cash receipts or payments.
Assessing the year end cut-off of these amounts, paying particular attention to the classification between settlement funds and own cash on the balance sheet based upon the underlying legal and commercial rights to funds.
Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue recognition and settlement balances provide sufficient detail for users to understand the nature of transactions.
102 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc continued 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Visa Europe and CVR-related liabilities Subjective valuation: On 21 June 2016 Our procedures included: the Group sold its 5.9% investment in Benchmarking assumptions: Loss Sharing Agreement provision Visa Europe to Visa Inc. and entered Comparing the key input assumptions 268.5m into a Loss Sharing Agreement and the within the Directors valuation model to Litigation Management Deed to indemnify externally and internally derived data as Visa Inc. preference shares Visa Inc. for the Groups share of potential well as our own assessments, including: 192.1m value of the preference liabilities relating to ongoing interchange Considering the correlation between shares is affected by the Litigation litigation involving Visa Europe together the information obtained and the Management Deed liability in that its Visa Europe liabilities.
For more details judgements made by the Directors.
level adjusts the conversion ratio of see Note 5i of the financial statements.
Considering the existence of the preference shares.
contradictory or disconfirming Determining the fair value of the Visa evidence Financial liabilities CVR Liabilities Europe liabilities, and therefore the fair Our legal expertise: Utilising our own 302.5m: 2015: 140.9m value of the Visa Inc. preference shares, legal specialists to collect and assess and subsequently the carrying value of information on claims available in the Refer to page 73 Corporate governance the related CVR liabilities, requires the public domain.
report and Note 5i accounting policy Directors to construct a valuation model Methodology choice: Consulted with and financial disclosures.
that considers the potential cash flows valuation specialists regarding the for a range of possible outcomes.
Due to valuation methodology utilised.
the potentially large range of outcomes Sensitivity analysis: Assessing the in value terms, there is a high level of impact of change in assumption judgement required and therefore there on the valuation of Visa Europe is a risk of material misstatement in the and CVR-related liabilities.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosure about significant judgements in relation to the Visa Europe liabilities and CVRs.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 103 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The risk Our response Trade receivables impairment and Data capture: Worldpay support around Our procedures included: related provisions 400,000 merchants, most of whom are Control design: Assessing the design small and medium sized, which makes and operating effectiveness of key Trade receivables impairment provisions the assessment of impairment of trade manual controls within the Groups 34.9m: 2015: 38.0m receivables inherently difficult to track.
merchant onboarding and ongoing Reporting capabilities for certain monitoring processes.
Merchant Potential Liabilities MPL IT systems are limited and manual Test of details impairment provisions : 3.0m: 2015: 0.1m interventions are required to ensure Assessing the trade receivables complete and relevant data is captured impairment provision by considering Refer to page 74 Corporate governance to allow appropriate monitoring and the cash collected from merchants report, page 113 accounting policies management of collections across the subsequent to the year end and and Notes 4b and 4d financial entire management portfolio.
There is a assessing the Directors judgements disclosures.
risk over the accuracy of information used on recoverability of amounts that to reliably assess potential exposure and remain unpaid, taking into account the resulting provision requirement.
specific customer circumstances known to the Directors, and publicly Subjective estimate: The Group also available data on liquidations and bears the risk of recoverability of gross insolvencies post year end.
cardholder transaction amounts due from Test of details MPL provisions : a merchant that arise from a chargeback Validating the completeness of the being raised by a cardholder i. e. a claim output of the Groups monitoring from a cardholder where the payment has activities against publicly available been made but the merchant has failed industry outlook reports and publicly to deliver the goods or services.
available data on liquidations and insolvencies within the year and Where the Group anticipate that, due to subsequent to year end.
merchant difficulties e. g. liquidation or Test of details MPL liabilities : bankruptcy, it will not be possible to Assessing the impairment and recover chargeback amounts from the provision recorded by reference merchant, a provision should be recorded.
to the output of the Groups internal The Group refer to this as the Merchant monitoring and review processes, Potential Liability MPL exposure.
focusing in particular on industries where there is a delay between a With regards to MPL, significant cardholder paying for a good or service judgement is required in assessing the and when that good or service is risk of future chargebacks being raised delivered by the merchant.
Where in respect of payments that have already a specific risk was identified for a been processed and the recoverability particular merchant, we evaluated of those amounts from merchants, for the Directors judgements on potential example due to bankruptcy or other exposure and recoverability, taking merchant failure.
into account specific customer circumstances known to the Directors and publicly available information on the financial performance of that merchant.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosure about significant judgements in relation to trade receivables impairment provisions including MPL.
104 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of Worldpay Group plc continued 3.
Our application of materiality and Normalised profit before tax Materiality an overview of the scope of our audit 277.1m 14.0m 2015: 20.0m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 14.0m 2015: 20.0m, determined with reference 14.0m to a benchmark of normalised profit before Whole financial statements tax of 277.1m profit before tax adjusted materiality 2015: 20.0m for all SDIs except for amortisation as disclosed in Note 2b, of which it represents 12.0m Normalised 5%.
2015: benchmark of total revenues of Range of materiality at four profit Group materiality before 3,963.0m, of which it represented 0.5%.
components 7.5m to 12.0m tax The Group team performed procedures 2015: 8.0m to 15.0m on the items excluded from normalised profit before tax.
0.7m Misstatements reported to the We now consider normalised profit before Audit Commiee 2015: 1.0m tax to be the most appropriate benchmark as the Group is now well progressed in its transition away from private equity ownership and related financing Group revenue Group profit before tax structures into a fully standalone Group.
% % 96 80 We report to the Audit Committee any 96 83 corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements relating to Income 7 Statement accounts exceeding 0.7m 2015: 1.0m and relating wholly to Income Statement or Balance Sheet classification 96% 80% exceeding 4.0m 2015: 5.0m, in addition 2015: 96% 2015: 83% to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 31 2015: 31 reporting components, we subjected four to audits for Group reporting purposes and two to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The components for which we performed Group total assets Group total liabilities specified risk-focused procedures were % % 91 55 not individually financially significant 5 92 58 enough to require an audit for Group 5 reporting purposes, but did include specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The audits of the four reporting 91% 55% components and the work performed 2015: 92% 2015: 58% on the Group consolidation covered 96% 2015: 96% of total Group revenue: 80% 2015: 83% of total profits and losses that 39 made up the Group profit before tax: 91% 27 2015: 92% of total Group assets: and 55% 2015: 58% of total Group liabilities.
The specified risk-focused procedures covered 7% 2015: nil of total profits and Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 losses that made up the Group profit specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 before tax: 5% 2015: 4% of total Group Full scope for Group audit purposes 2015 assets relating to settlement balances specified risk-focused audit procedures 2015 and 27% 2015: 39% of total Group Residual components liabilities relating to the borrowings as shown on page 135.
Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 105 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The remaining 13% 2015: 17% of total 5.
We have nothing to report on certain disclosures of Directors Group profit before tax is represented the disclosures of principal risks remuneration specified by law are by 27 2015: 27 reporting components, Based on the knowledge we acquired not made: or none of which individually represented during our audit, we have nothing material we have not received all the more than 3% 2015: 4% of Group to add or draw attention to in relation to: information and explanations profit before tax.
For these remaining the Directors statement of viability we require for our audit.
components, we performed analysis at on page 46, concerning the principal an aggregated Group level to re-examine risks, their management, and, based Under the Listing Rules we are required our assessment that there were no on that, the Directors assessment to review: significant risks of material misstatement and expectations of the Groups the Directors statements, set out on continuing in operation over the page 46, in relation to going concern within these.
three years to 31 December 2019: or and longer-term viability: and The Group audit team instructed the disclosures in Note 1a of the the part of the Corporate governance component auditors as to the significant financial statements concerning report on page 65 relating to the the use of the going concern basis Companys compliance with the 11 areas to be covered, and the information to be reported.
The Group audit team of accounting.
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our approved the component materialities, which ranged from 7.5m to 12.0m 6.
We have nothing to report in respect review.
of the matters on which we are required 2015: 8.0m to 15.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are the above responsibilities.
The work on one of the four components required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during Scope and responsibilities was performed by a component auditor and the rest by the Group audit team.
our audit, we have identified other As explained more fully in the Statement information in the annual report that of Directors responsibilities set out on The Group audit team visited the contains a material inconsistency with page 99, the Directors are responsible component auditor in the United States either that knowledge or the financial for the preparation of the financial twice, including an assessment of the statements, a material misstatement statements and for being satisfied audit risk and strategy, and telephone of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
that they give a true and fair view.
meetings were held with the component A description of the scope of an audit auditor throughout the year.
At these In particular, we are required to report of financial statements is provided on visits and meetings, the Group audit to you if: the Financial Reporting Councils website we have identified material team also discussed the findings at www.
reported in more detail and assessed inconsistencies between the This report is made solely to the Companys knowledge we acquired during our the adequacy of the work performed members as a body and is subject to by the component auditor.
audit and the Directors statement important explanations and disclaimers that they consider that the annual regarding our responsibilities, published 4.
Our opinion on other matters report and financial statements on our website at www.
com uk taken as a whole is fair, balanced prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 auditscopeukco2014a, which are is unmodified and understandable and provides incorporated into this report as if set the information necessary for In our opinion: out in full and should be read to provide the part of the Directors shareholders to assess the Groups an understanding of the purpose of this Remuneration report to be audited has position and performance, business report, the work we have undertaken been properly prepared in accordance model and strategy: or and the basis of our opinions.
with the Companies Act 2006: and the Audit Committee report does the information given in the Strategic not appropriately address matters report and the Directors report for the communicated by us to the Audit financial year is consistent with the Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Michael Harper Based solely on the work required to required to report to you if, in our opinion: Senior Statutory Auditor be undertaken in the course of the audit adequate accounting records have for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, of the financial statements and from not been kept by the parent Company, Statutory Auditor reading the Strategic report and the or returns adequate for our audit have Chartered Accountants Directors report: not been received from branches not 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL we have not identified material visited by us: or 7 March 2017 misstatements in those reports: and the parent Company financial in our opinion, those reports have statements and the part of the been prepared in accordance with Directors Remuneration report to the Companies Act 2006. be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or
