Our 2016 financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 32.
Accounting policies f Foreign currency and interest rate hedging The principal accounting policies of WPP plc the Company are The Companys policy on interest rate and foreign exchange rate summarised below.
These accounting policies have all been applied management sets out the instruments and methods available to hedge consistently throughout the year and preceding year.
interest and currency risk exposures and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
a Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared under The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Jersey to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
FRS 100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative Reporting Council.
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
As permitted by effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
available under that standard in relation to share-based payment, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash-flow At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the statement and certain related party transactions.
relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on a going and on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging concern basis, further details of which are in the Directors report on instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in page 50. offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
b Translation of foreign currency Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Foreign currency transactions arising from operating activities are as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together translated from local currency into pounds sterling at the exchange rates with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities to the hedged risk.
denominated in foreign currencies at the period end are translated at the period-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains or losses are credited The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are or charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
designated and qualify as cash flow or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised c Investments immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in d Taxation the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all to net profit or loss for the period.
taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that or losses reported in the consolidated income statement.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised 33.
Interest receivable and similar income if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill 2016 2015 or other assets and liabilities other than in a business combination in m m a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Interest receivable from subsidiary undertakings 0.6 Interest receivable on financial instruments 0.6 e Group and treasury share transactions 1.2 Where a parent entity grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, IFRS 2 share-based payment requires the subsidiary to record an expense for such compensation with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, in the financial statements of the parent WPP plc, the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the aggregate amount of these contributions of 106.5 million in 2016 2015: 99.0 million, with a credit to equity for the same amount.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 225 Our 2016 financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 34.
Interest payable and similar charges 39.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year The following are included in creditors falling due within one year: 2016 2015 m m 2016 2015 m m Interest payable on corporate bonds 33.7 65.1 Bank overdrafts 1,238.7 1,010.3 Bank and other interest payable 5.4 8.9 Corporate bonds 403.1 367.2 Interest payable to subsidiary undertakings 63.4 72.1 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 2,659.2 2,436.5 102.5 146.1 Interest payable on corporate bonds 18.0 33.4 35.
Taxation on loss on ordinary activities Other creditors and accruals 3.0 8.3 The tax assessed for the year differs from that resulting from applying 4,322.0 3,855.7 the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015: 20.25%.
The differences are explained below: Corporate bonds include 400 million of 6% bonds due April 2017.
Further 2016 2015 details are given in note 10. m m Loss on ordinary activities before tax 97.3 138.3 40.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Tax at the rate of 20% thereon 19.5 28.0 The following are included in creditors falling due after more than one year: Factors affecting tax charge for the year: 2016 2015 Revaluation of financial instruments 1.7 0.8 m m Unrecognised losses carried forward 17.8 27.2 Corporate bonds 411.8 Tax charge for the year Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 1,363.4 600.5 1,363.4 1,012.3 36.
Fixed asset investments The following are included in the net book value of fixed asset investments: Total borrowings are repayable as follows: Subsidiary 2016 2015 undertakings m m m Within one year 4,322.0 3,855.7 1 January 2016 12,863.8 Between one and five years 656.1 411.8 Additions 106.5 Over five years 707.3 600.5 31 December 2016 12,970.3 5,685.4 4,868.0 Fixed asset investments primarily represent 100% of the issued share capital of WPP Jubilee Limited, a company incorporated in Great Britain.
Equity share owners funds Fixed asset investments were purchased in a share-for-share exchange.
Other reserves at 31 December 2016 comprises a translation reserve At 31 December 2016 cost and net book value were the same.
Details of of 10.0 million 2015: 10.0 million.
indirect subsidiaries are given in note 29.
At 31 December 2016 the Companys distributable reserves amounted to 37.
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 8,595.7 million 2015: 9,310.3 million.
Further details of the Companys The following are included in debtors falling due within one year: share capital are shown in note 26.
Debtors: amounts falling due after one year The following are included in debtors falling due after more than one year: 2016 2015 m m Fair value of derivatives 19.1 226 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our 2016 financial statements Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements of WPP plc Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current In our opinion: year were: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the R evenue recognition accounting for media state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs volume income as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Goodwill Parent Companys loss for the year then ended: Taxation reserves the Group financial statements have been properly The key risks are the same as the prior year.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the was 94.5 million which was determined on the European Union: basis of 5% of profit before tax.
the Parent Company financial statements have been Scoping Those entities subject to audit provide for coverage properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom of 81% of the Groups consolidated revenue 2015: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 83% : achieved through a combination of direct Reduced Disclosure Framework: and testing and specified audit procedures including substantive analytical review procedures the financial statements have been properly prepared in performed by the Group auditor and or accordance with the requirements of the Companies component auditors across the world.
Significant There have been no significant changes in our The financial statements that we have audited comprise: changes in our approach compared with the prior year.
the accounting policies: approach the consolidated income statement excluding the US dollar information : the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs the consolidated cash flow statement: as issued by the IASB the consolidated balance sheet: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: As explained in the accounting policies to the Group the Parent Company profit and loss account, balance financial statements, in addition to applying IFRSs as sheet and statement of changes in equity: and adopted by the European Union, the group has also applied the related notes 1 to 41.
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards The financial reporting framework that has been Board IASB.
applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as In our opinion the group financial statements comply adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Going concern and the directors assessment Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS of the principal risks that would threaten the 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
solvency or liquidity of the Group We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting on page 50 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: t he directors confirmation on page 46 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 227 Our 2016 financial statements Independent auditors report t he disclosures on pages 47 to 50 that describe those risks and Independence explain how they are being managed or mitigated: We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils t he directors statement on page 175 to the financial statements Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their accordance with those standards.
identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have the date of approval of the financial statements: fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the t he directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Our assessment of risks of material liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any misstatement necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention The assessed risks of material misstatement described to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors adoption below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future directing the efforts of the engagement team.
As part of our events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
risk assessment procedures we obtained an understanding of and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal controls at Group level and at each of the full scope audit components that respond to the identified risks, in addition to performing the substantive audit procedures detailed below.
How the scope of our substantive audit procedures responded Risk to the risk Key observations Revenue recognition accounting for media We have: The results of our volume income testing were satisfactory.
C hecked that management could demonstrate that We consider the Assessing the timing of recognition and valuation persuasive evidence exists in respect of the arrangement timing and valuation of media volume income earned from media with the media owner at the time media volume income of media volume owners is an area of complexity and judgement is recorded, and viewed this evidence on a sample basis.
income recognised due to the need for management to determine at C hallenged the timing of recognition and valuation of in the year to what point persuasive evidence of agreement media volume income earned from media owners by be reasonable.
with the media owner exists and to interpret understanding the rationale for income recognised in the the variety of language used in the underlying current year in respect of media investment activity in prior contractual terms with media owners.
periods and verifying the accounting for arrangements that Assessing the valuation of media volume income are non-coterminous with the Groups year end.
is also an area of complexity with regards to A ssessed managements interpretation of contractual terms whether the media volume income is required to with media owners and clients in determining the valuation be passed back to the client and on what basis to of media volume income and determined whether calculate such passback.
Given the complexity consistent judgement has been applied year on year.
and judgement involved the timing of recognition A ssessed the ageing of balance sheet provisions for and the valuation of media income are the pass back of media volume income to clients and considered to be key audit risks.
challenged management where brought forward Refer to page 125 Review of the Audit provisions had been released.
Committee and page 177 accounting policies.
A nalysed and understood the trend of media volume income recognised against prior year activity.
228 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Our 2016 financial statements Independent auditors report How the scope of our substantive audit procedures responded Risk to the risk Key observations Goodwill We have: The results of our testing were satisfactory and Given the magnitude of the goodwill balance C hallenged the key assumptions used in the impairment we concur that the and the continued economic uncertainty in model for goodwill, including specifically the operating cash assumptions used in certain regions, it is important to ensure that the flow projections, discount rates, and long term growth rates.
the impairment model, goodwill impairment review is approached in a The key assumptions used for estimating cash flow including the discount robust manner to identify potential impairments, projections in the Groups impairment testing are those rate, and level of where necessary.
relating to revenue growth and operating margin.
goodwill impairment Determining whether the carrying value of C ompared these assumptions to externally derived data booked in the year are goodwill is recoverable requires management to where applicable as well as forming our own assessment.
make significant estimates concerning the E ngaged our internal fair value specialists who assisted in estimated future cash flows and associated computing an independent assessment of the discount rates discount rates and growth rates based on used and assessing the methodology used in preparing the managements view of future business prospects.
The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given T ested the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the the magnitude of the goodwill balance 2016: impairment model.
13,214 million, 2015: 10,671 million, and the relative sensitivity to certain inputs to the C onsidered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model impairment testing process, in particular the to changes in key assumptions.
discount rate, the valuation of goodwill is We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures considered a key audit risk.
in respect of its goodwill impairment testing and whether Refer to page 125 Review of the Audit disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the Committee, page 177 accounting policies impairment assessment to reasonably possible changes and page 200 financial disclosures.
in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Taxation reserves We have: The results of our testing were satisfactory.
There is uncertainty in respect of resolving D iscussed and considered all significant taxation exposures There were no material matters with tax authorities around the world.
with Group management including their tax specialists.
exceptions noted The highly disaggregated nature of the Group T ogether with our internal taxation specialists we when corroborating coupled with its acquisitive nature means that challenged the estimates and judgements made by managements there are a number of different tax jurisdictions management when calculating the income tax payable in judgement to the in which the Group could be liable to pay tax, each territory and the associated provisions held.
correspondence and making potential tax exposures a key audit risk.
We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in support reviewed Therefore assessing the Groups exposure to significant locations where available, as well as reviewing the for those significant significant tax risks and the level of provisions support or opinions received from external counsel and other tax reserves.
recognised is an area of judgement.
advisors where management has utilised such opinions to Refer to page 125 Review of the Audit make assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
Committee, page 177 accounting policies and page 196 financial disclosures.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 125.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2016 229 Our 2016 financial statements Independent auditors report Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the Group, in the financial statements that makes it probable that the with operations in 112 countries and more than 3,000 offices economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person among more than 150 companies within the Group, a would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in significant portion of audit planning time is spent so that the planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the scope of our work is appropriate to address the Groups results of our work.
identified risks of material misstatement.
In selecting the components that are in scope each year, we refresh and Group materiality update our understanding of the Group and its environment, 94.5m including obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, in order to check that the profit before tax 1,891 million units selected provide an appropriate basis on which to undertake audit work to address the identified risks of Audit Committee material misstatement.
Such audit work represents a reporting threshold 1m combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
Those entities subject Based on our professional judgement, we determined to audit provide for coverage of 81% of the Groups materiality for the financial statements as a whole consolidated revenue 2015: 83% : achieved through a as follows: combination of direct testing and specified audit procedures including substantive analytical review procedures Group 94.5 million 2015: 76.6 million performed by the Group auditor and or component auditors materiality across the world.
Our audit work at the components is Basis for 5% of profit before tax 2015: 5% of profit before tax.
executed at levels of materiality appropriate for such determining components, which in all instances are capped at 50% of materiality Group materiality.
In order to support our conclusion that Rationale We have determined that the critical benchmark there were no significant risks of material misstatement for the for the Group was profit before tax because we of the aggregated financial information of the remaining benchmark consider this measure to be what the shareholders applied believe to be a key performance indicator for the components not subject to audit, we tested the consolidation Group.
We also considered this measure to be process and carried out analytical procedures at the parent suitable having compared to another benchmark: entity level using our bespoke data analytics tool.
our materiality is below 1% of equity 2015: below 1%.
Materiality is higher than for the year ended 31 December 2015 primarily as a result of higher profit before tax achieved in 2016.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.0 million 2015: 0.75 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
