2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC with whom the AIFM has engaged to provide certain Report on the financial statements administrative functions.
Our opinion We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the In our opinion, Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLCs financial types of investments within the Company, the involvement statements the financial statements : of the third parties referred to above, the accounting give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys processes and controls, and the industry in which the affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its loss for the year then Company operates.
ended: Areas of focus have been properly prepared in accordance with United Income.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Valuation and existence investments.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Performance Fees.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, The scope of our audit and our areas of focus comprise: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & the Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2016: Ireland.
the Income Statement for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial ended: and statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors the notes to the financial statements, which include a made subjective judgements, for example in respect of summary of significant accounting policies and other significant accounting estimates that involved making explanatory information.
assumptions and considering future events that are Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the addressed the risk of management override of internal financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of financial statements and are identified as audited.
bias by the directors that represented a risk of material The financial reporting framework that has been applied in misstatement due to fraud.
the preparation of the financial statements is United The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments Our audit approach we make on the results of our procedures should be read in Overview this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified Materiality by our audit.
Overall materiality: 8,818,000 which represents 1% of net assets.
Audit scope The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Frostrow Capital LLP the AIFM to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from the AIFM and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 43 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Income We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to pages 52 and 53 Accounting Policies and pages 55 compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and and 59 Notes to the Financial Statements.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
We focused on the accuracy and completeness of income from investments amounting to 10,482,000 for the year and We found that the accounting policies implemented were in its presentation in the Income Statement as set out in the accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, requirements of The Association of Investment Companies and that income has been accounted for in accordance with Statement of Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
We also focused on the calculation of realised and We understood and assessed the design and implementation unrealised gains and losses on investments amounting to a of key controls surrounding income recognition.
In addition, we tested dividend income by agreeing the This is because incomplete or inaccurate income for both dividend rates from a sample of investments to independent the revenue and capital return columns of the Income third party sources.
No misstatements were identified by our Statement could have a material impact on the Companys testing which required reporting to those charged with net asset value.
To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for a sample of investment holdings in the portfolio.
Our testing did not identify any unrecorded dividends.
We did not identify any special dividend income.
We have also tested the gains or losses on investments held at fair value comprising realised and unrealised gains or losses.
For realised gains or losses, we tested a sample of disposal proceeds to bank statements.
For unrealised gains or losses, we tested the valuation of the portfolio at the year-end, together with testing the reconciliation of opening and closing investments.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 44 2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation and existence investments Quoted investments: Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 52 We tested the valuation of quoted investments by agreeing Accounting Policies and pages 59 Notes to the Financial the prices used to third party sources.
We tested the existence of the quoted investment portfolio Fixed asset investments at 31 March 2016 comprised quoted by agreeing the holdings to an independent custodian investments, unquoted debt investments and OTC swaps confirmation from J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp. totalling 935,670,000.
No differences were identified which required reporting to We focused on the valuation and existence of investments those charged with governance.
because investments represent the principal element of the Unquoted debt investments: net asset value as disclosed on the Statement of Financial We tested the valuation of unquoted debt investments by Position in the financial statements.
agreeing the prices used to third party sources.
We tested the existence of the unquoted debt investments by agreeing the holdings for investments to an independent custodian confirmation from J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp and an independent confirmation from the loans administrative agent RBC Capital Markets.
No differences were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
OTC derivative financial instruments swaps : We tested the valuation of the OTC derivatives by agreeing the prices used for a sample in the valuation to independent third party sources.
We tested the existence of the OTC derivatives by agreeing the holdings to an independent custodian confirmation from J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp and the Broker, Goldman Sachs International.
Performance fees We independently recalculated the performance fee using Refer to page 37 Audit Committee Report, page 53 the methodology set out in the AIFM Agreement and Accounting Policies and page 55 Notes to the Financial Portfolio Management Agreement and agreed the inputs to Statements.
the calculation, including the benchmark data, to independent third party sources, where applicable.
At 31 March 2016, outperformance was not maintained and No misstatements were identified by our testing which therefore a provision for performance fees was not required required reporting to those charged with governance.
which resulted in a write back of 5,460,000 to the Income Statement.
We focused on this area because the performance fee is calculated using a complex methodology as set out in the AIFM Agreement and Portfolio Management Agreement.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 45 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 Presentation and Disclosure FRS 102 The financial statements are prepared in compliance with have been prepared for the first time under FRS 102.
We have assessed that the changes applicable to the Company the AIC SORP, Companies Act and FRS 102, including financial statements disclosures and presentation.
have been implemented, this includes the amendments to the disclosure of fair value hierarchy information and As this is the first year FRS 102 was implemented, we presentational aspects relating to the Statement of Financial focused on whether the financial statements were presented Position.
No issues were noted in the presentation of the in compliance with FRS 102 as well as the compliance of AIC financial statements.
SORP, Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code was published in September 2014, with a further update published on 23 October 2015.
The new Code requires disclosure of a viability statement, a robust assessment of risks and a new-style going concern confirmation in the Annual Report.
We have reviewed the information provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and no issues were noted in disclosure of corporate governance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we them misstatements identified during our audit above 441,000 2015: 491,000 as well as misstatements below performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the types that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
of investments within the Company, the involvement of the Manager and Administrator, the accounting processes and Going concern controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the The Companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator Directors statement, set out on page 28, in relation to going who maintain their own accounting records and controls and concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our report to the Manager and the Directors.
Materiality Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for relation to the directors statement about whether they materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the material to add or to draw attention to.
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern and on the financial statements as a whole.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern Based on our professional judgement, we determined basis presumes that the company has adequate resources to materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, Overall materiality 8,818,000 2015: 9,825,000. for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the How we determined it 1% of net assets.
directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this However, because not all future events or conditions can be benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that companys ability to continue as a going concern.
an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 46 2 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC continued Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would Consistency of other information threaten the solvency or liquidity of the company Companies Act 2006 opinion Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if In our opinion: we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in the information given in the Strategic Report and the relation to: Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the the directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, financial statements.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the information given in the Corporate Governance principal risks facing the company, including those that Statement set out on page 29 with respect to internal would threaten its business model, future performance, control and risk management systems and about share solvency or liquidity.
capital structures is consistent with the financial We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those ISAs UK & Ireland reporting risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
information in the Annual Report is: the Directors explanation on page 22 of the Annual materially inconsistent with the information in the Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as audited financial statements: or to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company whether they have a reasonable expectation that the acquired in the course of performing our audit: or company will be able to continue in operation and meet otherwise misleading.
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their We have no exceptions to report.
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing the statement given by the Directors on page 28, in attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the understandable and provides the information necessary directors statement that they have carried out a robust for members to assess the companys position and assessment of the principal risks facing the company and performance, business model and strategy is materially the directors statement in relation to the longer-term inconsistent with our knowledge of the company acquired viability of the company.
Our review was substantially less in in the course of performing our audit.
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries We have no exceptions to report.
and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment the section of the Annual Report on page 37, as required by with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge Committee does not appropriately address matters acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
have nothing to report having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 47 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act we require for our audit: or 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other adequate accounting records have not been kept, or purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown returns adequate for our audit have not been received or into whose hands it may come save where expressly from branches not visited by us: or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement What an audit of financial statements involves with the accounting records and returns.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have no exceptions to report arising from this disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give responsibility.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Directors remuneration error.
This includes an assessment of: Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the opinion companys circumstances and have been consistently In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration applied and adequately disclosed: Report to be audited has been properly prepared in the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates accordance with the Companies Act 2006. made by the directors: and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors directors judgements against available evidence, forming remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement We test and examine information, using sampling and other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We not been prepared by the company.
We have no exceptions to obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of report arising from this responsibility.
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further information in the Annual Report to identify material provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to performed our review.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Responsibilities for the financial statements and knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the the audit audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Our responsibilities and those of the Directors misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors implications for our report.
Responsibilities set out on page 28, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements in accordance with applicable law and for and on behalf of  LLP ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
London This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for 14 June 2016 and only for the companys members as a body in Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 48
