INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Opinion on financial statements of Zoopla Property Group Plc In our opinion: the directors confirmation on page 29 that they have carried outarobust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30September2016 including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the disclosures on pages 26 to 28 that describe those risks and the group and financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs explain how they are being managed or mitigated: as adopted by the European Union: the directors statement in note 1.4 to the financial statements the parent company financial statements have been properly about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of Companies Act 2006: and approval of the financial statements: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the directors explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their The financial statements comprise the Consolidated statement statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that ofcomprehensive income, Consolidated and company statement of the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its financial position, Consolidated and company statement of cash flows, liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, Consolidated and company statement of changes in equity, the related including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Notes 1 to 29 to the consolidated financial statements and Notes 1 to 15 necessary qualifications or assumptions.
to the company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis ofaccounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with as a going concern.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
of accounting contained within Note 1.4 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group contained within the strategic report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team in decreasing order of significance.
76|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Financial statements Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our procedures entailed: Acquisition of Property Software Group PSG Valuation ofacquired intangible assets i A uditing the acquired balance sheet prior to the purchase This is a new risk for 2016 following the acquisition of Property priceallocation to gain assurance over the valuation of net Software Group in the period.
On 28 April 2016, the Group completed assetsacquired: its previously announced acquisition of Property Software Group on ii Engaging our internal experts to review the methodologies acash-free, debt-free basis.
employed, and challenge assumptions utilised by management The gross valuation of acquired intangible assets as part intheir valuation of acquired intangible assets with reference to ofthepurchase price allocation PPA exercise is reliant third party data for comparable transactions and asset types: , and hence there is a risk that if managementuse inappropriate methodologies or assumptions iii obtaining the underlying cash flow forecast calculations and challenging their reasonableness: withinthe PPA exercise, that the intangible assets will not be statedwithin an acceptable range of valuations.
iv Confirming that the useful economic lives allocated to each class ofasset are appropriate based on their nature and Group accounting We have included the risk in our audit report due to the quantum ofthe balance, its highly judgemental nature, and the fact that it had policies: and asubstantial impact on our overall audit strategy.
v Reviewing the associated disclosures within the financial statements to assess whether they are in accordance with IFRS 3.
The purchase price was settled through consideration of 69.6 million, of which 22.2 million was paid in cash, 24.9 million was the repayment of external debt, and a further 22.5 million is deferred.
An additional 5.7 million is payable to management shareholders as remuneration, contingent on them remaining in employment.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquiredhas been recognised as intangible assets comprised ofcustomer relationship intangibles of 20.5 million, brands of2.2million and goodwill of 47.2 million.
Refer to notes 1, 1.20 and 13 for the group accounting policy, managements consideration of critical accounting judgements anddisclosure note respectively.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our procedures entailed: Revenue recognition in the Comparison Services division Valuation of accrued income i As sessing managements processes and the design and Comparison services revenue is accrued each month based upon implementation of controls in respect of the appropriate thenumber of switches provided to suppliers, net of an estimated recognitionof revenue, in particular the valuation of switches drop-out.
At the period end there is a proportion of switches that has inlinewith contractual terms and the subsequent confirmation not been confirmed as having been completed and accepted by the ofswitches through third party customer confirmations: third party provider.
There is therefore a risk in respect the valuation ii Verifying that for a sample of customer contracts, that revenue ofaccrued revenue balance at year-end.
hadbeen appropriately recognised in line with the contractual During 2016, management implemented a new system which has enabled terms and IAS 18: more accurate matching of confirmations back to original switches iii Analysing revenue streams to understand the drivers of and hence has enabled more accurate recognition of accrued income.
fluctuations and obtain support for any unusual movements: and Refer to notes 1, 1.20 and 2 for the group accounting policy, iv For a sample of suppliers for which there is accrued income at managements consideration of critical accounting judgements anddisclosure note respectively.
yearend, obtaining post year-end confirmation of the balance fromthe relevant third party.
Revenue recognition in the Property Services division Our procedures entailed: Completeness of agency subscription arrangements i Analysing revenue streams to understand the drivers of Revenue in the property services division primarily consists of  monthly partner numbers and the Average recurring subscription payments in return for property listings on Revenue perAdvertiser ARPA trend, and obtaining support theGroups websites.
Individual contracts exist with each customer forany unusualmovements: with arange of different terms and conditions, and as a result there ii Assessing managements processes and the design and are asignificant number of agreements.
implementation of controls in respect of the appropriate Consequently there is a risk that customer subscription agreements recognition of revenue, in particular the billing of customers may not be appropriately captured and accounted for in line with inlinewith contractual terms: underlying contractual terms and hence the revenue population iii Selecting a sample of estate agents, ascertaining whether they were maynot be complete.
aZPG customer or not, and if so, obtaining the underlying contract to We have included the risk in our audit report due to the quantum determine whether the information within the Customer Relationship ofthe balance and the fact that it had a substantial impact on our Management system is accurate and hence the revenue population overallaudit strategy.
is complete: and Refer to notes 1, 1.20 and 2 for the group accounting policy, iv Verifying information for a sample of customer contracts orequivalent managements consideration of critical accounting judgements agreements selected from the Customer Relationship Management anddisclosure note respectively.
system to subscription details, and then in turn back to the ledger to determine whether revenue has been appropriately recognised.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in our report this year: Accounting for the acquisition of uSwitch, which was aone off event in the prior year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages49to 50.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
78|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Financial statements Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and areasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and We have identified three components, namely Property Services inevaluating the results of our work.
excluding Property Software Group Property Portals, Comparison We determined materiality for the group to be 2.1 million 2015: Services and Property Software Group, which mirror the structure and 1.7million, which is 4.5% 2015: 5.1% of pre-tax profit, and below locations of the Group.
Of these components, Property Portals and 1.5% 2015:1.5% of equity.
We consider that pre-tax profit is the Comparison Services are considered to be financially significant, mostappropriate statutory measure for a listed business.
whereas Property Software Group is not given that the acquisition was completed in H2 2016 and the contribution to the consolidated We agreed with the Audit Committee, following reassessing the results is not significant.
levelat which we would report misstatements to them, to report all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2015: 35,000, as well as We focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work in differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting respect of Zoopla PLC, ZPG Limited and the entities that make up the on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on Comparison Services division, which were subject to a full scope audit, disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall as was the case in the prior year.
Property Software Group was subject presentation of the financial statements.
to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups operations at that location.
The Property Portals PBT Group materiality and Comparison Services operations represent 96% of the groups revenue 2015: 100%, 97% 2015: 100% of the groups profit before tax and 98% of the groups net assets 2015: 100%.
Our audit work for those components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality and ranged from 1.2 million to 1.5 million 2015:0.8million to 1.4 million.
PBT There were no component audit teams, with the entire audit including 46.2m the testing of the consolidation being conducted in ZPGs London head office by one central audit team.
Full audit scope Specified audit procedures Audit Committee 4% reporting threshold 0.1m Component materiality range 1.5m to 1.2m 96% Revenue Group materiality 2.1m 3% Profit 97% before tax 2% Net assets 98% Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED To the members of Zoopla Property Group Plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated Matters on which we are required to report by exception professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, inour opinion: inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not received all the information and explanations we companys members those matters we are required to state to them require for our audit: or inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received other than the company and the companys members as a body, for from branches not visited by us: or our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements are not in agreement Scope of the audit of the financial statements with the accounting records and returns.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Directors remuneration misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been thegroups and the parent companys circumstances and have been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall nothing to report arising from these matters.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Corporate Governance Statement financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to theCorporate Governance Statement relating to the companys identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
inthe course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report theimplications for our report.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Kate J Houldsworth FCA Senior statutory auditor statements: or for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of London, UK performing our audit: or 29 November 2016 otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
80|The consumer champion at the heart of the home
