Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Opinion on financial statements of The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income The Restaurant Group plc Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, In our opinion: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the related notes 1 to 26 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at notes i to v of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
1 January 2017 and of the groups loss for the 53 week period then ended: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law the group financial statements have been properly prepared and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: of the parent company financial statements is applicable law the parent company financial statements have been properly and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Summary of our audit approach Key risks The key risks that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of tangible fixed assets Onerous contracts and provisions associated with the review of the operating estate Recognition of commercial discounts Within this report, any new risks are identified with and any risks which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.5m which was determined on the basis of 4.5% of adjusted profit before tax, calculated by adjusting statutory profit before tax for the exceptional charge for impairments, onerous contracts and provisions associated with the review of the operating estate.
100 50 0 -50 Statutory loss Impairment Void period costs Other Adjusted profit before tax of fixed assets & onerous leases exceptional costs before tax Scoping Our group audit scope focused on the groups head office in London and the accounting function in Chester, which were subject to a full audit by our London based audit team.
This represents 100% of the groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 57 Independent auditors report continued Significant The onerous contract provisions and costs associated with the review of the operating estate have been changes included a key risk in the current year.
in our approach As noted above, an adjusted measure of profit before tax has been used to determine materiality.
We note adjusted measures are the focus of managements Strategic Report to reflect their view that the adjusted measures better reflect the underlying trading performance of the business.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors We confirm that we have nothing material to add statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
of accounting contained within the accounting policies to the financial statements on page 66 and the directors statement on the longer-term We agreed with the directors adoption of the viability of the group contained within the strategic report on page 12. going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add However, because not all future events or or draw attention to in relation to: conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to the directors confirmation on page 11 that they have carried out a continue as a going concern.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 11-12 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 53 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation on page 12 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils We confirm that we are independent of the Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent group and we have fulfilled our other ethical of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities responsibilities in accordance with those in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
58 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
With the exception of the inclusion of the risk relating to onerous contracts and provisions associated with the review of the operating estate the risks identified below are the same risks as identified in the prior year.
Impairment of tangible fixed asset Risk description Tangible fixed assets are the most quantitatively significant item on the balance sheet with a net book value at 1 January 2017 of 346.0 million 2015: 403.6 million.
The fixed asset balance is primarily comprised of freehold and leasehold buildings and the plant and equipment therein that support the Groups restaurant operations.
There are 493 2015: 506 separate restaurant sites.
For the period ended 1 January 2017 the Group has recorded an impairment charge of 68.1m which relates to 66 underperforming sites which do not generate adequate levels of return and the impairment of a further 41 sites which the Group has exited or is exiting.
The assessment of the carrying value of tangible fixed assets requires evaluating whether any indicators of impairment exist in the asset base by reference to expected future profitability of cash generating units CGUs within the restaurant estate.
Other than where restaurants are located together in a cluster such as concessions in airports, CGUs are primarily individual restaurant sites.
The Chairmans Statement states that 2016 was a challenging year for the Group with a consistently disappointing trading performance exposing fundamental issues across our three Leisure brands.
This trend and an overriding concern about brand positioning has been reflected in managements forecast cash flows with only modest future performance improvements in the operating estate factored in.
This is recognised as a critical judgement in the accounting policies on page 70 of the financial statements.
See also note 11 to the financial statements.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 59 Independent auditors report continued Impairment of tangible fixed assets How the scope of our audit To audit the risk of potential fixed asset impairment our audit procedures included responded to the risk the following: We challenged managements identification of CGUs and whether it is appropriate given the requirements in IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Specifically we considered whether it is appropriate to treat certain sites together in clusters, given their location and impact of customers.
We assessed managements process for identification of sites with a potential impairment, including reviewing the analysis performed by management and that assets were appropriately written off.
We also considered the indicators of impairment identified by management, if any, and performed an analysis to challenge their assumptions.
Our work included: obtaining evidence, including market based evidence, to support the growth and discount rates used: testing the mechanics of managements impairment model: performing analysis to assess and challenge the assumptions underpinning the model.
This included analysis of forecast site performance, taking into account: historical performance of the sites and the overall brand, managements strategy and expectations for the sites and recent local market trends: assessed completeness of managements process by considering other market-based factors indicating other potential site impairments such as low historic profitability: and i n addition, we held discussions with business heads to corroborate and challenge the assumptions used in determining the value in use of both impaired sites and other sites not subject to an impairment.
Key observations Given recent operating performance and the number of challenges faced by the leisure brands, as set out in the Strategic Report, the modest future performance improvement built into the impairment model is not unreasonable.
Therefore, based on our testing and challenge of the assumptions, we concur with the amount recognised as an impairment charge.
60 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Onerous contract provisions and costs associated with the review of the operating estate Risk description As set out in note 5, provisions relating to onerous contract provisions and costs associated with the review of the operating estate totalled 48.6m as at year end.
34.8m of this balance relates to provision on onerous contracts and the remaining 13.8m to other strategic actions resulting from the review of the operating estate.
The calculation of these provisions requires judgement, including the appropriate discount rate to use, assumptions for sub-let income and assessment of the facts and range of likely outcomes.
Management has performed a site by site review which makes an assessment of: the estimated period of time it will take to agree a sub-let arrangement: any rent-free period required and the likely sub-let rental income rate when compared to the passing rent in the lease.
Therefore there is a range of possible scenarios and considerable judgement involved.
How the scope of our To audit this risk we have performed a range of procedures including: audit responded to the risk We have challenged the judgements supporting the amount provided with reference to contractual rent obligations, third party support & market views from our experts for potential sub-let income and evidence for the estimated cost of void periods.
We have reviewed the calculation of onerous lease provision and assess their completeness by challenging all sites with negative EBITDA.
We have performed sensitivity analysis flexing the data for various variables including like for like revenues, margins and discount rates.
We consulted with our valuation specialists to assess the 10.6% discount rate 2015: 8.1%.
In addition we have discussed site by site assumptions with senior brand management and the director of property.
Further we have agreed a sample of property disposal provisions to correspondence with landlords and other supporting evidence.
Key observations Based on our work, the recent experience in exiting sites, interest from potential tenants and market considerations, we concur with the approach taken by management.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 61 Independent auditors report continued Recognition of commercial discounts Risk description The restaurant business uses a wide range of suppliers.
It is typical for suppliers to be on term contracts mostly annual and as part of the process to agree the contract, it is common for price discounts to be agreed.
These principally take the form of rebates for meeting quantitative volume targets.
See the accounting policies on page 69.
The recognition of commercial discounts in the Income Statement within cost of sales is a risk given their scale and, in certain cases, the judgement that is required in calculating the discount.
Commercial discounts should be recognised in accordance with negotiated supplier contracts and over the correct period to which they relate.
How the scope of our audit We held meetings with those negotiating commercial discount arrangements to identify responded to the risk the types of deal in place.
Our testing focussed on completeness of discount arrangements, cut-off and the appropriate recognition in the financial year by: agreeing and recalculating amounts recorded to a sample of supplier contracts and the actual cash receipt or accrued income : comparing amounts recorded for suppliers with discount arrangements to amounts recognised in prior periods and obtaining evidence and or explantions for changes.
With reference to ageing of amounts outstanding, we have also assessed the reasonableness of any provisions held against commercial discounts receivable.
Key observations Non-judgemental volume related discounts make up the majority of the discounts received and we concur with the amounts recognised.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
62 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 3.5m 2015: 4.3m Basis for determining We have used 4.5% of adjusted profit before tax, calculated by adjusting statutory profit materiality before tax for the exceptional charge for impairments, onerous contracts and provisions associated with the review of the operating estate.
In the prior year, materiality was determined on the basis of less than 5% of statutory pre-tax profit.
Rationale for the During the year the Group has incurred a significant charge 116.7m primarily relating to benchmark applied onerous contracts and provisions associated with the review of the operating estate.
This has impacted the statutory profit before tax.
To be consistent with prior periods and to be in line with the ongoing trading of the business, we have chosen 4.5% of adjusted profit before tax as our metric as set out in the summary table above giving a materiality of 3.5m.
This has been done to determine a materiality that reflects the underlying business and then the one-off exceptional items have been tested in detail.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 70,000 2015: 86,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on this assessment, and as in the prior year, our group audit scope focused on the groups head office in London and the accounting function in Chester, which were subject to a full audit.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual subsidiary entity, which were lower than group materiality, ranging from 2.8m to 0.3m.
All audit work done across all components was carried out by the group audit team.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 63 Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain arising from these matters.
disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate arising from our review.
Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report We confirm that we have not Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report identified any such to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: inconsistencies or misleading statements.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
64 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Lee Amies FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 65
