Independent Auditors Report Opinion on financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements of Assura plc give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs asat 31 March 2016 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements, the Consolidated andParent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and ParentCompany Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 26 and A to F. The financial reporting framework that hasbeen applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the Directors assessment appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Directors of the principal risks Report and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within that would threaten the the strategic report on page 32. solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 30 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 33 to 37 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the Directors Report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 32 as to how they have assessed the prospects of theGroup, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we didnot identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of material misstatement effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts ofthe engagement team: 90 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of property We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external valuers.
portfolio The Group owns and We reviewed the external valuation reports to assess whether the approach taken is in manages a portfolio of accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
primary care properties including a number of We performed data analysis, stratifying the properties into sub-categories and identifying a development properties.
The range of average yields for each category.
We then benchmarked these ranges both internally valuation of the portfolio is and against relevant external data where available.
underpinned by a number of judgements and assumptions We held calls with the third party valuers, Savills and Jones Lang LaSalle, appointed by which creates significant management for the valuation of the property portfolio and we challenged and evaluated the estimation uncertainty.
significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuations including outstanding rent reviews and yields.
We also challenged and discussed any outliers identified through our analysis.
The properties are valued atsix-monthly intervals Further, our in-house property specialists were integrated into the audit of the property byprofessionally qualified portfolio in order to provide sector specific knowledge as part of our evaluation and challenge external valuers using the of the valuations.
Development We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuers, by properties are valued by consideration of their professional qualifications and market standing as valuers of primary thesame method with a care properties.
We verified the integrity of a sample of information provided to valuers by deduction of all costs management relating to rental income, occupancy and life of the lease.
necessary to complete the development together with We assessed the forecast costs to complete and developers margin on development adevelopers margin.
properties, agreeing any committed amounts to underlying contracts and agreeing a sample of costs incurred in the year to supporting documentation.
The closing fair value of the portfolio as at 31 March 2016 is1,109.4 million 2015: 925.3million.
See accounting policies in Note 2 and Note 10 to the financial statements.
Accounting for acquisitions We challenged the assumption that the acquisitions constitute asset purchases rather than During the current year, business combinations.
theGroup has undertaken anumber of significant We verified the fair value of consideration paid by reference to acquisition agreements and acquisitions of companies other external evidence.
which own one or more properties.
We performed procedures to assess the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and assessed the accounting treatment adopted, with reference to the significant judgements and estimates involved as per Note 2.
We considered the date at which the transactions completed based on the acquisition or disposal agreements and considered the impact of these transactions on revenue recognition.
We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the transactions in the financial statements.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 91 Independent Auditors Report continued The risks included within this audit report are consistent with those reported in the year ended 31 March 2015 audit report.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 55.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that of materiality makesit probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 1.5 million 2015: 1.5 million.
In determining the materiality of the Group, we have considered a number of factors including net assets, underlying profit and profit before tax being the critical performance measures of the Group.
The figure represents 5% of pre-tax profit and less than 0.5% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 30,000 2015: 30,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its of our audit environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited in its entirety by Deloitte LLP in Manchester.
Our audit work on the individual subsidiary entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we arerequired to report byexception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
92 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, other information in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: in the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge ofthe Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are of Directors and auditor responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Scope of the audit of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free frommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
RACHEL ARGYLE SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Manchester, UK 17 May 2016 www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 93
