Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report the directors statement on page 103 to the financial statements about whether they considered Opinion on financial statements of Barratt Developments PLC it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them andtheir In our opinion: identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions qualifications or assumptions.
ofthe Companies Act 2006: and We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group and Parent Independence Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Accounting Policies, the Impact of Standards and we confirm that we are independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical and Interpretations in issue but not yet Effective, the Critical Accounting Judgements and responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and the related notes 1 to 7.4.
The financial reporting anyofthe prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted Our assessment of risks of material misstatement by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of Going concern the engagement team.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the At 30 June 2016, the balance of directly held available for sale financial assets is no longer appropriateness of the going concern basis contained within note 1.3 on page 115 and the material to the Group.
We have therefore removed this as a focus area of our audit.
directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained on page 43.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 4245 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: 106 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Carrying value of land and work in progress land 2,880.2m 2015: 2,826.1m, work in progress 1,386.3m 2015: 1,287.4m Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement, page 123 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 3.1 financial statement disclosures The Groups assessment of the carrying value of land and Our work involved the following: work in progress, being the lower of cost and net realisable We have tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the Groups controls relating to the determination of costs to complete as this is the most significant judgement applied to value, is a judgemental process.
This requires the estimation each site valuation.
We attended a number of valuation meetings across all regions that review the carrying value of land and work in progress of individual sites.
A sample of sites were also visited of selling prices, sales rates and costs to complete, to enable us to verify how surveyors measure the degree of build completion of the developments against the costs incurred to date and to measure the subcontractor accruals at the year end.
determined on a site by site basis.
These factors drive the For multi-phased sites we have performed procedures to validate the appropriateness of actual and forecast margin maintained across the individual phases of the entire site.
gross margin for each site and hence the profit recognised atthe point of sale.
We have reviewed the land acquisition appraisal process and viability assessment at acquisition and tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls.
The outcome of the EU referendum has resulted in greater We have sample tested and agreed certain costs incurred to date included within land and work in progress as well as reviewing the proportion of that expenditure recognised as a cost of sale political and economic uncertainty which may impact selling inthe year in respect of units sold.
prices, sales rates and build costs, especially in the longer We have used IT interrogation tools to test the model prepared by Management to calculate the net realisable value of sites to ascertain the mechanical accuracy of the formulae being applied term.
Such assumptions impact the Groups assessments tothe inputs to specific sites.
onthe carrying value of land and work in progress.
We have tested each of the key assumptions within Managements model on forecast sales values, sales rates and costs to complete which support the basis of the carrying value of land The net impairment charge for the year was 8.6m 2015: and work in progress.
We have compared the Groups assumptions to external market forecasts for sales price inflation and build cost inflation and have tested a sample of sites to current 11.7m.
market data on sales rates, sales prices and cost assumptions.
We have also tested the accuracy of costs to complete assumptions on a sample basis.
In addition, revenue recognition on social housing We have performed independent sensitivity analysis, informed by external forecasts, to measure the impact on the carrying value of land and work in progress through possible deviations developments accounted for under IAS 11 Construction around the assumptions applied by management.
This included consideration of the outcome of the EU referendum.
Contracts requires additional judgement in calculating the revenue and profit to be recognised, estimating the total A sample of construction contracts for social housing developments have been tested by verifying the costs incurred to date and recalculating the percentage of completion at the balance sheet expected costs to complete each site and the percentage of date.
A selection of these schemes have been reviewed with a sample of costs agreed to third party surveyors certificates, total sales values agreed to contracts, and the recognition formula completion at the balance sheet date.
verified to support revenue recognised.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures within the Annual Report and Financial Statements relating to the estimation uncertainty.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets goodwill 792.2m 2015: 792.2m, intangible assets 100m 2015: 100m Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement, page 129 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 4.2 financial statement disclosures The goodwill and David Wilson Homes brand intangible asset Our work involved the following: arose upon the acquisition of Wilson Bowden see note 4.2.
We have assessed the design and implementation of the Groups controls relating to Managements impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets.
The Groups assessment of impairment of goodwill and We have tested the accuracy of the underlying model to assess whether the processes are applied to the correct input data and the outputs are mapped accurately.
intangible assets is a judgemental process which requires We challenged each of the key assumptions employed in the annual goodwill impairment test.
This included reference to our internal valuation specialists benchmarking of the estimates concerning the forecast future cash flows weighted average cost of capital rate WACC employed as the discount rate employed, including its methodology and constituent inputs, comparison to independent market associated with the goodwill and brand assets held, the forecasts of revenue and cost growth in the housebuilding sector and an assessment of the Groups historic forecasting accuracy.
discount rates and the growth rate of revenue and costs to be applied in determining the value in use.
We have tested Managements sensitivity analysis in relation to the key inputs to the goodwill impairment test model, as well as performing our own sensitivity analysis which included changes to volume, margin, incentives and the discount rate applied.
As described in the previous significant risk, the outcome of the EU referendum has resulted in greater political and We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
economic uncertainty which may impact selling prices, salesrates and build costs, especially in the longer term.
There were no impairments in the current year 2015: nil.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality Matters on which we are required to report by exception We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the results of our work.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate We determined materiality for the Group to be 33.5 million 2015: 27.6 million, which is for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or determined based on 5.0% 2015: 5.0% of statutory pre-tax profit.
Profit before tax was used as the benchmark because this it is a key performance indicator for the groups stakeholders and the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records isconsistent with the benchmark used for comparable companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in excess of 1.7 million 2015: 0.55 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, Directors remuneration in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
An overview of the scope of our audit We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, Corporate Governance Statement including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Group level.
The entire Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate The audit is performed centrally and comprises all of the divisions which comprise the Groups Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
housebuilding segment, the Groups commercial developments segment and the head Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report office consolidation.
Consistent with prior years, we choose to visit the Groups three London Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, housebuilding divisions each year, as well as five further non-London housebuilding divisions inour opinion, information in the annual report is: across each of the Groups regions, selected on a rotational basis and with reference to size and complexity among other factors.
We also visit Wilson Bowden Developments Limited on materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or anannual basis, which constitutes the Groups commercial developments segment.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or In our opinion: otherwise misleading.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006: and our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider forwhich the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies ormisleading statements.
108 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Mark Goodey Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109
