Independent auditors report to the members of Big Yellow Group PLC Opinion on financial statements of In our opinion: Big Yellow Group plc the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the Directors As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the assessment of the principal risks going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2 to the financial statements and the Directors that would threaten the solvency or statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 37. liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors' confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 34 to 36 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material The assessed risk of material misstatement described below is the one that had the greatest effect on our audit misstatement strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
84 Investment property valuation Risk description See also note 14 to the financial statements, and the Audit Committees Report on pages 80 to 82.
Refer to the accounting policies of the Group set out on page 96 and 97 for the Groups investment property valuation policy and the associated critical accounting estimate for determining fair value.
As at 31 March 2016, the Group held wholly-owned investment properties and investment properties under construction valued at 1,126.2 million 2015: 1,022.8 million all located within the United Kingdom.
The Group also has minority investments in two associate entities Armadillo Storage Holding Company Limited and Armadillo Storage Company 2 Limited, together the Associates for which equity accounting is applied.
The Associates control a combined gross value of 57.7 million 2015: 53.3 million in self storage assets, of which 20% is recognised by the Group.
Investment properties are held at fair value on the Group Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The net valuation gain in the year relating to Group held wholly-owned investment properties was 58.0 million 2015: 64.5 million, which was recognised through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The net valuation gain, included within the share of profit of associates, relating to the properties held by the Associates was 3.5 million 2015: 11.5 million on a gross basis and therefore 0.7 million 2015: 2.3million on a Group share basis.
Fair values are calculated using actual and forecast inputs such as: occupancy, capitalisation rates, maximum lettable area, operating expenses and net rent per square foot by property as at 31 March 2016.
In addition, external valuers apply professional judgement concerning market conditions and factors impacting individual properties.
We consider investment property valuation to be at significant risk of material misstatement as the valuation process is subjective and inherently judgemental in nature.
The investment market for prime self storage, in particular, is subject to market uncertainty due to the low volume of transactions.
How the scope of our audit We assessed the design and implementation of the key internal controls around the property valuation process: responded to the risk We tested the integrity of the information provided to the external valuers by management by agreeing key inputs such as actual occupancy and net rent per square foot to underlying records and source evidence: We modelled nine years of valuations and key valuation inputs of the investment properties subject to audit, to understand the historical trends of key inputs and compared these against the key forecast assumptions included in the property valuation: We met with the external valuers covering both the Group and Associate portfolios and assessed their independence, the scope of the work they were requested to perform by management, quality control procedures in place internally and the valuation methodology applied: We challenged the external valuers on the key assumptions applied and focussed on properties we identified as having significant or unusual valuation movements compared to market data or previous periods.
Our challenge was informed by input from our internal valuation specialists, utilising their knowledge and expertise in the market at a macro level and the relevant geographies to challenge the key judgmental inputs.
We also researched comparable transactions and understood trends in analogous industries and utilised this information in our audit challenge.
We understood the rationale for outlying valuations or movements and obtained corroborative evidence.
We also assessed the valuations for a sample of other properties: and We visited a sample of properties to assess the condition of the buildings and validate a sample of occupancy data inputs.
85 Independent auditors report to the members of Big Yellow Group PLC continued Investment property valuation Key observations Management have recognised a 58.0 million uplift in the valuation as at 31 March 2016.
During the course of the audit of the investment property valuation, we noted the following key observations: A portfolio wide reduction was applied to the capitalisation rate of each store in the valuation reflecting an improvement in investor appetite for self storage assets: and An increase in the average stabilised occupancy rate has been applied to the portfolio.
This reflects the increasing number of stores reaching occupancy levels above 80%.
We found the assumptions adopted by management in the valuation were reasonable and the methodology applied was appropriate in all material respects.
Last year our report included one risk which is not included in our report this year fair value assessments in the acquisition of the Big Yellow Limited Partnership: this transaction completed during the prior year.
Our risk around investment property valuation was addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.9 million 2015: 6.9 million, based on professional judgment, the requirements of International Standards of Auditing and the financial measures most relevant to users of the financial statements.
We have used 1.0% of net assets 2015: 1.0% of net assets as the benchmark for determining materiality.
We concluded that determining materiality based on net assets is consistent with industry peers, in particular real estate investment trusts, and because it reflects a measure of interest to investors.
Net Assets: 829.4m Materiality: 7.9m In addition to net assets, we consider adjusted profit before tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors and has substantial prominence in the Annual Report.
Adjusted profit before tax is 49.0 million 2015: 39.4 million, which is reconciled to profit before tax of 112.2 million 2015: 105.2 million in accordance with IFRS in note 10 of the financial statements.
We applied a lower threshold of 2.3 million 2015: 1.9 million for testing all balances impacting adjusted profit before tax.
This lower threshold was based on 5% 2015: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 400,000 2015: 138,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We have re-assessed the appropriateness of this threshold since the prior year.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
86 Investment property valuation An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its control environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in previous years, the audit team performed full scope statutory audits of all non-dormant entities within the Group.
We have performed an audit to statutory materiality for the purposes of supporting the Group audit opinion for each non-dormant entity.
As such, the scope of our audit covered 100% of both consolidated profit before tax and consolidated net assets.
Statutory materiality adopted for subsidiaries companies ranged from between 0.1 million and 7.8 million.
During the previous year the Group acquired 20% of the equity of the Associates and continues to manage these portfolios.
The Group applies equity accounting for these interests and the equity interest in Armadillo Holdings 1 Limited and Armadillo Holdings 2 Limited amounts to 4.2 million and 2.2 million respectively.
We have performed audit procedures on all balances and transactions material to these entities for the purposes of supporting the Group audit opinion.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned site visits during March 2016.
At each site visited we undertook an inventory count, performed design and implementation testing of key controls, verified a sample of fixed assets and occupancy data, agreed cash balances to bank reconciliations and held discussions with key store staff.
Opinion on other matters prescribed In our opinion: by the Companies Act 2006 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, the Annual Report information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
87 Independent auditors report to the members of Big Yellow Group PLC continued Investment property valuation Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Respective responsibilities of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the Directors and auditor preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to statements give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Darren Longley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 23 May 2016 88
