Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion: Our 2016 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact the British Land Company PLCs Group financial statements and that the Groups operations were largely unchanged in nature from Company financial statements the financial statements give a true the previous year, additionally, there have been no significant changes and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as to the valuation methodology and accounting standards relevant to the at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year Group.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in terms of scoping and then ended: areas of focus was largely unchanged.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs A full scope audit was performed by the Group team for all subsidiaries as adopted by the European Union: of the Group, and the following joint ventures: Broadgate, Meadowhall the Company financial statements have been properly prepared and Leadenhall.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Materiality the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Overall Group materiality: 138 million 2014 15: 130 million which the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group represents 1% of Total assets.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Specific Group materiality, applied to pre-tax profit: 18 million 2014 15: 15 million which represents 5% of underlying pre-tax profit.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: Areas of focus the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: Valuation of investment and development properties.
the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2016: Revenue recognition, specifically focusing on non-standard revenue the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of transactions.
Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: Accounting for transactions including acquisitions and disposals of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: investment properties, review of the accounting treatment of the deferred the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: consideration received from one of the Groups joint venture partners, the and 110 million debenture bonds tender offer and purchase and the issuance the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of of 350 million convertible bonds in the year.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Taxation REIT status and tax provisions.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting example in significant accounting estimates that involved making framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
116 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and development properties We read the valuation reports for all the properties and confirmed Refer to pages 80 to 83 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 127 that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS to 129 Accounting policies and pages 136 to 139 Note.
standards and suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
The Groups investment property portfolio is split between office and residential properties in London, retail and leisure properties We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their across the UK, and the assets at the Canada Water site, with a terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there valuation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet of 9,643 million.
were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered The valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio is inherently fee arrangements between the Valuers and the Group and other subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each engagements which might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
property, its location and the expected future rentals for that particular We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the Valuers property.
For developments, factors include projected costs to complete in their performance of the valuations was compromised.
and timing of practical completion.
We performed testing on the standing data in the Groups information The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CB Richard Ellis systems concerning the valuation process.
We carried out procedures, and Knight Frank the Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged by the on a sample basis, to satisfy ourselves of the accuracy of the property Directors, and performed their work in accordance with the Royal information supplied to the Valuers by management.
For developments, Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional we confirmed that the supporting information for construction contracts Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group have considerable and budgets, which was supplied to the Valuers, was also consistent experience of the markets in which the Group operates.
In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into The audit team, including our valuation specialists, attended account property-specific information such as the current tenancy meetings with each of the Valuers at which the valuations and the key agreements and rental income.
They apply assumptions for yields and assumptions therein were discussed.
Our work focused on the largest estimated market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market yields properties in the portfolio and those where the assumptions used and or and comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
year-on-year capital value movement suggested a possible outlier For developments, the residual appraisal method is used, by estimating versus market data for the relevant sector.
We also focused on the fair value of the completed project using a capitalisation method less superstores, Canada Water and completed developments for the estimated costs to completion and a risk premium.
We compared the investment yields used by the Valuers with an estimated range of expected yields, determined The significance of the estimates and judgements involved, coupled with via reference to published benchmarks.
We also considered the the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement, with published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value ERV, void warrants specific audit focus in this area.
Finally, we evaluated year-on-year movements in capital value with reference to published benchmarks.
There were also a number of specific factors affecting the valuations Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise in the year: unusual, and or valuations showed unexpected movements, we a number of developments that were completed in the year are now discussed these with the Valuers in our meetings held with them and valued as standing investment properties so we have paid particular obtained additional audit evidence to support the explanations received focus to the valuation methodology applied to those assets: e. g. copies of lease agreements to support new lettings that have the nature of the Canada Water site, which comprises three contiguous increased valuation during the period.
In this way professional sites that British Land are currently master-planning as a combined scepticism was exercised in our evaluation of whether assumptions were large scale, mixed use development site, resulted in our audit paying appropriate in light of the evidence provided by significant transactions particular focus to the relevant valuations: and which had taken place in the market during the year.
the UK supermarket sector continues to be an area of focus given performance in the sector.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers, and from our review of the valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
The evaluation of what were the appropriate assumptions to apply to any given property included determining the level of impact that recent and significant market transactions should have on each individual propertys valuation, given its unique characteristics did not reveal any issues.
We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management and the Valuers, before determining the final valuation.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR CONTINUED Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We carried out tests of controls over the cash and accounts receivable Refer to pages 80 to 83 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 127 processes and the related IT systems to obtain evidence that postings to to 129 Accounting policies and page 131 Note.
For rental income balances, we then used data-enabled audit techniques to identify all standard revenue journals Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income.
Rental posted using these systems and processes.
income is based on tenancy agreements where there is a standard process in place for recording revenue, which is system generated.
The remaining journals related to non-standard transactions.
These There are however certain transactions within revenue that warrant included reclassifications within revenue, accrued income, and bad debt additional audit focus because of an increased inherent risk of error provisions.
For each category of non-standard revenue summarised due to their non-standard nature.
above, we have understood the nature and assessed the reasonableness of journals being generated, and performed substantive testing over These include spreading of occupier incentives and guaranteed rent a sample of these items.
There have been no exceptions arising from increases these balances require adjustments made to rental income our testing over non-standard revenue transactions.
to ensure revenue is recorded on a straight-line basis over the course of a lease.
For balances not included within rental income, such as service charge income, we performed substantive testing on a sample basis.
Accounting for transactions For each transaction, we understood the nature of the transaction and Refer to pages 80 to 83 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 127 assessed the proposed accounting treatment in relation to the Groups to 129 Accounting policies and pages 130 to 164 Notes to Accounts.
accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
There have been a number of transactions during the year.
For the purchase of additional units in HUT, we agreed the net asset These warranted additional audit focus due to the magnitude value used in the share price calculation to supporting information of transactions and the potential for complex contractual terms including external Net Asset Value certificates.
that introduce judgement into how they were accounted for.
Key transactions subject to additional audit focus were: For all acquisitions and disposals, we obtained and reviewed the key purchase of additional units in HUT for 59 million: supporting documentation such as Sales and Purchase Agreements acquisition of One Sheldon Square for 210 million: and completion statements.
Consideration received or paid was agreed issuance of 350 million convertible bonds: to bank statements and deferred consideration postings.
No material recognition of deferred consideration received from issues were found as a result of these procedures.
one of the Groups joint venture partners: profit on disposal of investment properties and trading For the convertible bond we have inspected the bond agreement properties of 45 million: and and obtained evidence of all the key inputs into the bond issue price.
110 million debenture bonds tender offer and purchase We have also considered the accounting treatment and concurred with managements treatment.
For the deferred consideration received from one of the Groups joint venture partners, we have inspected the shareholder agreement that governs the fee payment, obtained evidence that the milestones that trigger the payment have been met and have inspected the calculation of the payment amount and agreed the cash receipt.
We have assessed the accounting treatment and concur with the treatment.
For the debenture bonds tender offer and purchase we have agreed the repayment of the debentures and recalculated the finance charge incurred through agreeing the various tender documents, resolutions contained in the Committee of the Board and cash payments.
The finance charges have been expensed through the Income Statement.
We have reviewed this treatment and concur with this.
118 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation We re-performed the Groups annual REIT compliance tests, as well as Refer to pages 80 to 83 Report of the Audit Committee, those tests for the Broadgate REIT.
Based on our work performed, we pages 127 to 129 Accounting policies and pages 133 and 146 Notes.
agreed with managements assessment that all REIT compliance tests had been met to ensure that the Group and Broadgate maintains its The Groups status as a REIT underpins its business model and REIT status.
For this reason, it warrants special audit focus.
The obligations of the REIT regime include requirements to comply with We used our tax expertise to evaluate tax provisions and potential balance of business, dividend and income cover tests.
The Broadgate exposures as at 31 March 2016, challenging the Groups assumptions and joint venture is also structured as a REIT and as such, REIT compliance judgements through our knowledge of tax circumstances and by reading is also of relevance for this joint venture in addition to the overall Group.
relevant correspondence between the Group and Her Majestys Revenue & Customs and the Groups external tax advisors.
We concluded that the Tax provisions are in place to account for the risk of challenge tax provisions were within an appropriate range based on the supporting of certain of the Groups tax provisions.
Given the subjective information provided by the Groups tax department.
nature of these provisions, additional audit focus was placed on tax provisions.
How we tailored the audit scope In addition, we set a specific materiality level of 18 million 2014 15: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough 15 million for items within underlying pre-tax profit.
This equates to 5% work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, of profit before tax adjusted for capital and other items.
In arriving at this taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes judgement we had regard to the fact that the underlying pre-tax profit and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
is a secondary financial indicator of the Group refer to note 2 of the financial statements page 130 where the term is defined in full.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using a single consolidation system that has a direct interface with the general We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them ledger.
We performed our audit procedures over the general ledger misstatements identified during our audit of underlying pre-tax items system and tested the interface with the consolidation system.
above 1 million 2014 15: 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
A full scope audit was performed by the Group audit team for all This year, we agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to subsidiaries of the Group, and the following joint ventures: Broadgate, them, any misstatements identified during our audit of capital and other Meadowhall and Leadenhall.
This gives coverage over substantially items above 6.9 million 2014 15: n a as well as misstatements below all of the Group.
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk Going concern of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, statement, set out on page 77, in relation to going concern.
we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing We have nothing to report having performed our review.
required over each balance in the financial statements.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have Materiality anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements as a whole.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the for the financial statements as a whole as follows: financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys How we determined it 1% of total assets.
ability to continue as a going concern.
Rationale for benchmark applied A key determinant of the Groups value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDITOR CONTINUED Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity Consistency of other information of the Group Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Directors confirmation on page 76 We have nothing material of the Annual Report, in accordance with to add or to draw ISAs UK & Ireland reporting provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have attention to.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, carried out a robust assessment of the in our opinion: principal risks facing the Group, including Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions those that would threaten its business model, materially inconsistent with the information to report.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
in the audited financial statements: or the disclosures in the Annual Report We have nothing material apparently materially incorrect based on, or that describe those risks and explain how to add or to draw materially inconsistent with, our knowledge they are being managed or mitigated.
of the Group and Company acquired in the the Directors explanation on page 58 We have nothing material course of performing our audit: or of the Annual Report, in accordance with to add or to draw otherwise misleading.
provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how attention to.
The statement given by the Directors on We have no exceptions they have assessed the prospects of the page 76, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 to report.
Group, over what period they have done of the UK Corporate Governance Code the so and why they consider that period to Code, that they consider the Annual Report be appropriate, and their statement as taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to whether they have a reasonable understandable and provides the information expectation that the Group will be able necessary for members to assess the Groups to continue in operation and meet its and Companys performance, business model liabilities as they fall due over the period and strategy is materially inconsistent with of their assessment, including any related our knowledge of the Group and Company disclosures drawing attention to any acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 82, We have no exceptions as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, to report.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors describing the work of the Audit Committee statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the does not appropriately address matters principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
120 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors remuneration What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the Companies Act 2006. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting adequately disclosed: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified the Directors: and by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors Corporate governance statement judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable Responsibilities for the financial statements basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through and the audit testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a Our responsibilities and those of the Directors combination of both.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 113, the Directors are responsible for the preparation In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited and fair view.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 May 2016 a The maintenance and integrity of the The British Land Company PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121
