FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 Independent Auditors report Report on the financial statements Our audit approach Overview Our opinion Materiality In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: 50.5 million Derwent London plcs Group financial statements and Company 2015: 46.4 million which represents financial statements the financial statements give a true Materiality 1% of total assets.
and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit Specific materiality: 4.0 million 2015: and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year 4.0 million applied to property and then ended: other income, administrative expenses, Audit scope provisions and working capital balances.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Audit scope IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Group audit team carries out the Areas of focus statutory audits of all components within the Company financial statements have been properly prepared the Group and the consolidation.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Areas of focus the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Valuation of investment properties due to significance the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards and subjectivity.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Compliance with the REIT guidelines on which the Groups What we have audited tax status is based due to the consequences of any breach.
The financial statements, included within the Report and Accounting for borrowings and the associated interest Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: rate swaps.
the balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the Group income statement and Group statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the cash flow statements for the year then ended: We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
the statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective and judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the notes to the financial statements, which include a estimates that involved making assumptions and considering summary of significant accounting policies and other future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits explanatory information.
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial misstatement due to fraud.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas the European Union and, as regards the Company financial in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties The valuers used by the Group are CBRE Limited for the Central Refer to pages 107 and 108 Report of the Audit Committee, London portfolio and Savills for the remaining investment pages 137 to 139 Notes to the financial statements Note 16 property portfolio in Scotland.
They are well-known firms, with and page 167 Significant accounting policies.
sufficient experience of the Groups market.
We assessed the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the firms and verified The Groups investment properties were valued at 4,803.8m their qualifications by discussing the scope of their work and as at 31 December 2016 and a revaluation deficit of 37.1m reviewing the terms of their engagements for unusual terms or was accounted for under revaluation deficit in the Group fee arrangements.
Based on this work, we are satisfied that the income statement.
In excess of 98% of the value of the Groups firms remain independent and competent and that the scope of investment property portfolio comprises offices and commercial their work was appropriate.
The remainder of the portfolio represents a retail park, cottages and strategic land in Scotland.
We agreed the data inputs underpinning the investment property valuation for a sample of properties, including rental Valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance income, acquisitions and capital expenditure, by agreeing them with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards and IAS 40. to the underlying property records held by the Group to assess There are significant judgements and estimates to be made in the reliability, completeness and accuracy of the underlying relation to the valuation of the Groups investment properties.
The underlying property records were assessed for Where available, the valuations take into account evidence of reliability by reviewing signed and approved lease contracts or market transactions for properties and locations comparable to sale purchase contracts and by reviewing approved third party those of the Group.
For the properties currently under development, we traced the costs included within development appraisals to The Central London investment property portfolio mainly quantity surveyor reports and confirmed that they were features office accommodation and includes: comparable to costs incurred on similar completed projects.
Standing investments: These are existing properties that In addition, we visited a number of the key properties in Central are currently let.
They are valued using the income London that are under development to confirm the status of capitalisation method: developments.
We met with the external valuers independently of management and obtained the valuation reports to discuss Development projects: These are properties currently under and challenge the valuation methodology and assumptions.
development or identified for future development.
They have a different risk and investment profile to the standing We involved our internal valuation specialists to compare the investments.
These are valued using the residual appraisal valuations of each property to our independently formed market method i. e. by estimating the fair value of the completed expectations and challenged any differences.
In doing this project using the income capitalisation method less estimated we used evidence of comparable market transactions and costs to completion and a risk premium.
focused in particular on properties where the growth in capital values was higher or lower than our expectations based on The most significant judgements and estimates affecting the market indices.
valuation included yields and estimated rental value ERV growth as described in note 16 of the financial statements.
We identified the following assets for further testing: standing For development projects, other assumptions including costs investments where the valuation fell outside the expected to completion and risk premium assumptions are also factored range: ongoing and planned development projects: high value into the valuation.
assets valued in excess of 100m: and acquisitions.
The deficit on revaluation was a result of softening of yields, In relation to these assets, we found that yield rates and ERVs particularly in the second half of 2016 following the outcome were predominantly consistent with comparable information for of the EU Referendum.
Despite this, ERVs have generally Central London offices and assumptions appropriately reflected continued to improve in the central London property market comparable market information.
Where assumptions did not fall with significant new lettings and progress on a number of within our expected range, we assessed whether additional development projects where further capital expenditure has evidence presented in arriving at the final valuations was been incurred and the risk weighting applied to the valuation appropriate, and, whether this was robustly challenged by the has decreased hence increasing the capitalised value.
Variances were predominantly due to property specific factors such as new lettings at higher The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled rents, movements in ERV or yield to reflect market transactions with the fact that only a small percentage difference in in close proximity or the derisking of development projects individual property valuations when aggregated could result nearing completion.
We verified the movements to supporting in material misstatement, is why we have given specific audit documentation including evidence of comparable market focus and attention to this area.
We challenged the Directors and Audit Committee on the movements in the valuations and found that they were able to provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Compliance with REIT guidelines We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to Refer to page 108 Report of the Audit Committee ensuring compliance with the REIT regime rules.
and page 127 Significant judgements, key assumptions We obtained managements calculations and supporting and estimates.
documentation, checking their accuracy by verifying the inputs The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status and calculation.
We involved our internal specialists to verify the provided they meet the rules within the regime.
The rules are accuracy of the application of the rules.
complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on We found that the assessment prepared was free from material the financial statements.
The complexity of the rules creates a error and consistent with the UK REIT guidelines risk of inadvertently breaching and the Groups profit becoming subject to tax.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives We obtained and reviewed each loan contract to understand the Refer to page 108 Report of the Audit Committee, terms and conditions.
Where debt covenants were identified, we pages 144 to 151 Notes to the financial statements re-performed managements calculations to verify compliance Note 23 and page 168 Significant accounting policies.
The carrying value of all debt was agreed to third party confirmations.
The Group has secured and unsecured debt totalling 898.6m 2015: 895.0m.
The debt includes unsecured convertible debt For all derivatives, we agreed the carrying value to valuations of 142.9m 2015: 140.2m with an option for the Group to obtained directly from the third party valuers, JC Rathbone convert the debt when certain criteria have been met.
We assessed the competence and capabilities of the external valuers by considering their qualifications and market The Group uses interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
We involved our internal specialists who performed The interest rate swaps were valued at 31 December 2016 by independent valuations to recalculate the value using external valuers and the fair value was 17.3m 2015: 17.6m.
The valuation of the swaps is based on market movements which can fluctuate significantly in the year and could From our work on of the terms of the debt arrangements in have a material impact on the Group financial statements.
place as at 31 December 2016, we consider the borrowings and The valuation also involves judgement and therefore is derivatives to be accounted for appropriately, valued correctly in considered an area of audit focus.
the context of materiality, and disclosed appropriately.
How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the industry in which the Group operates.
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the The Groups properties are spread across 64 statutory entities effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of statements as a whole.
these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
All parts of the Group, including the joint ventures, were identified as requiring an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics or statutory requirement.
This work, all of which was carried out by the Group audit team, together with additional procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 50.5 million 2015: 46.4 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax excluding investment property valuation movements and profit on disposal of investment properties capped at 4.0 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant of the Groups value is direct property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
In addition, a number of key performance indicators of the Group are driven by income statement items and we therefore also applied a lower specific materiality for testing property and other income, administrative expenses, provisions and working capital balances.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Other required reporting to them misstatements identified during our audit above Consistency of other information 2.5 million 2015: 2.3 million for financial statement line Companies Act 2006 opinions items where overall materiality applied and 0.4 million In our opinion: 2015: 0.4 million for line items where specific materiality the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors applied as well as misstatements below those amounts that, Report for the financial year for which the financial statements in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Going concern the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors set out on pages 77 to 84 with respect to internal control and statement, set out on page 84, in relation to going concern.
risk management systems and about share capital structures is We have nothing to report having performed our review.
consistent with the financial statements.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we ISAs UK & Ireland reporting have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the in our opinion: financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions attention to.
materially inconsistent with the to report.
information in the audited financial As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have statements: or concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial apparently materially incorrect statements using the going concern basis in preparing the based on, or materially financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that inconsistent with, our knowledge the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in of the Group and Company operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at acquired in the course of least one year from the date the financial statements were performing our audit: or signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the otherwise misleading.
Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
the statement given by the Directors We have no exceptions However, because not all future events or conditions can be on page 116, in accordance with to report.
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report We have no exceptions on page 107, as required by provision to report.
C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121 Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give if, in our opinion: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
we have not received all the information and explanations we This includes an assessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been applied and adequately disclosed: received from branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors by the Directors: and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our Directors remuneration own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Directors remuneration report financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 opinion We test and examine information, using sampling and other In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain Companies Act 2006. audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, Other Companies Act 2006 reporting substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration information in the Annual Report to identify material specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to arising from this responsibility.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect Corporate governance statement based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not become aware of any apparent material misstatements or been prepared by the company.
We have no exceptions to inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Craig Hughes Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further Senior Statutory Auditor provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having for and on behalf of  LLP performed our review.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 28 February 2017 Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 116, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
