Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 155 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Great Portland Estates plc Opinion on financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longerterm viability of the Group contained on page 74.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors conrmation on page 64 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 66 to 73 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 122 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Financial statements 156 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below, which are the same risks as identied in the prior year, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts oftheengagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that, while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, weinclude in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Valuation of property portfolio The Group owns a portfolio of property assets We assessed and discussed managements process We conclude that in central London.
The portfolio is valued at for reviewing and challenging the work of the the assumptions 3,703.9 million, including share of joint venture external valuer.
We also assessed the competence, used in the valuations properties, as at 31 March 2016. independence and integrity of the external valuer.
were supportable in light of available and The valuation of the portfolio is a significant We obtained the external valuation reports and met comparable market judgement area and includes a number of with the external valuer to discuss the results of their evidence.
assumptions including yields and future work on a sample of properties.
of a specialist member of the audit team, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged The level of development activity has also the valuation process, performance of the portfolio increased in recent years and is an area and significant judgments and assumptions applied of specic focus for our audit due to the in their valuation model, including yields, occupancy judgements required in assessing the value of rates, lease incentives and break clauses.
We development properties, such as forecast costs benchmarked and challenged the key assumptions to complete, the level of developers profit, to external industry data and comparable property and nancing costs.
transactions, in particular the yield.
Please see accounting policy at page 133 and We tested the integrity of a sample of the data notes 10 and 12 to the financial statements.
provided to the external valuer.
This included verifying a sample of information provided to the external valuer to underlying lease agreements.
We assessed the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with project managers, testing managements process to forecast costs to complete and inspecting commitments of key developments.
Acquisitions and disposals For each transaction, we understood the nature We found that the The Group has undertaken a number of of the transaction and assessed the proposed acquisitions and acquisitions and disposals during the year accounting treatment in relation to the Groups disposals during the including: i the exchange of 33 Margaret accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
year were properly Street for 216.3 million for 50 Finsbury Square accounted for and for 119.0 million: ii the sale of 60 Great We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and disclosed.
We found Portland Street for 103.2 million: and iii the purchase agreements for all significant acquisitions no material issues sale of 95 Wigmore Street for 222.4 million.
and disposals in the year, assessing whether they as a result of our These are significant due to the individual were appropriately recognised in the period based procedures.
nature, size, cash ows involved and the related upon the risks and rewards of ownership and specic disclosure requirements.
There is also properly disclosed in the financial statements.
the potential for complex contractual terms We also assessed whether key terms and pricing that introduce judgement into how they are were appropriately reected in any calculation of accounted for.
costs of the acquisition or profit or loss on disposal Please see accounting policy at page 133 and by inspecting sale and purchase agreements.
notes 10, 11 and 12 to the financial statements.
Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 157 Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Revenue recognition Revenue for the Group consists primarily of We have reviewed and understood the key terms We did not identify rental income.
Rental income is based on and conditions of a sample of leases identifying the any material tenancy agreements where there is a standard quantum of surrender premia, rent free periods and surrender premia in process in place for recording revenue.
We recalculated the required the period.
Revenue Thereare however, certain transactions within adjustment to the annual rent in relation to these was recognised in revenue that have an increased inherent items to determine whether the correct amount of line with the lease risk of error due to them being impacted revenue had been recognised in the year.
terms and we found by the specic terms and conditions of the the Groups revenue relevant tenancy agreements.
These include: recognition to be i accounting for surrender premia, ii rent free in line with the periods, and iii capital incentives.
accounting standards and the Groups Please see accounting policy at page 133 accounting policy.
andnote 2 to the financial statements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 91.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 27 million 2015: 25 million, which is below 1% of EPRA NAV 2015: below 2% of equity.
We consider net assets to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric used by management, investors, analysts and lenders.
In addition to EPRA NAV, we consider EPRA profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 2.2 million 2015: 2.2 million based on 5% 2015: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.55 million 2015: 0.50 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained athead ofce.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level, which is lower than Group materiality.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identied any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Financial statements 158 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Independent auditors report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or o therwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Muschamp, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 25 May 2016
