INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC Opinion on the financial statements of Significant changes to our approach Hammerson plc The only significant change to our audit approach in 2016 was the inclusion of Ireland as a separate component.
The ownership In our opinion: interests in a portfolio of loans secured against a number of Irish The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the property assets had been acquired in 2015.
During 2016, the Group Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 acquired the interests in these underlying investment properties, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: thereby creating the new component of the Group.
We also: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Focussed our property transactions significant risk to the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards acquisition of the Irish property portfolio: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Broadened the risk around the valuation of the property portfolio The parent company financial statements have been properly to include the valuation of premium outlets held by Value Retail.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The accounting for the investment in Value Retail is therefore not Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 separately included within our audit report as a key risk this year.
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Going concern and the Directors assessment the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the of the principal risks that would threaten the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
solvency or liquidity of the Group The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement contained on page 136 regarding the appropriateness of the the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28 for the consolidated viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 59. financial statements and the related notes A to H for the parent We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: company financial statements.
The Directors confirmation on page 54 that they have carried out a The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and those that would threaten its business model, future performance, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting solvency or liquidity: framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent The disclosures on pages 55 to 58 that describe those risks and company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 The Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their Summary of our audit approach identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date Key risks of approval of the financial statements: Valuation of the property portfolio including premium outlets held by Value Retail : and The Directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and Property transactions, specifically the acquisition of the Irish why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their property portfolio.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that Materiality the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its The materiality that we used in the current year was 50 million liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, December 2015: 40 million which is less than 1% of including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Shareholders Equity.
Scoping We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of We performed a full scope audit on the UK and French components.
accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
Following the acquisition of the Irish property portfolio resulting However, because not all future events or conditions can be from the conversion of the loans acquired in 2015 into the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to underlying investment properties this year, Ireland was included continue as a going concern.
as a separate component in our audit for the first time.
Independence We performed an audit of specified account balances for the Irish component, Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Together these five components account for 99% of the Groups Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent net assets and 100% of profit before tax.
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC Opinion on the financial statements of Significant changes to our approach Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Hammerson plc The only significant change to our audit approach in 2016 was the The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of inclusion of Ireland as a separate component.
The ownership In our opinion: resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
There has been no significant change in the Groups operations however interests in a portfolio of loans secured against a number of Irish we note the inclusion of Ireland as a separate component in our audit following the conversion in the year of the loans acquired in 2015 into the The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the property assets had been acquired in 2015.
During 2016, the Group underlying investment properties including Dundrum Town Centre and the Ilac Centre.
Due to the complex nature if this transaction we have Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 acquired the interests in these underlying investment properties, refocused our property transaction risk to the acquisition in the year of the Irish property portfolio.
Furthermore, as the nature of the investment and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: thereby creating the new component of the Group.
We also: in Value Retail has not changed during the year, we have focussed this risk to the valuation of the investment which is primarily driven by the The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in valuation of the underlying property portfolio and has been incorporated in to the valuation of the property portfolio risk.
Focussed our property transactions significant risk to the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards acquisition of the Irish property portfolio: and These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Broadened the risk around the valuation of the property portfolio not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The parent company financial statements have been properly to include the valuation of premium outlets held by Value Retail.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The accounting for the investment in Value Retail is therefore not Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Valuation of the property portfolio including premium outlets separately included within our audit report as a key risk this year.
"FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and held by Value Retail The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Going concern and the Directors assessment Hammerson plc ""Hammerson"" owns a portfolio of retail property We assessed managements review of the work of the external valuers: the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the assets valued at 8,282 million at 31 December 2016 31 December of the principal risks that would threaten the We met with the external valuers of the portfolios including those Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
solvency or liquidity of the Group 2015: 7,130 million of which 4,764 million are held by subsidiaries held by Value Retail to discuss and challenge the valuation process, The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income 31 December 2015: 4,652 million and 3,518 million by joint performance of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors ventures and associates 31 December 2015: 2,478 million.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement contained on page 136 regarding the appropriateness of the judgement areas, including estimated rental values, yields, future net the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and The Group has further investments in premium outlets through the operating income and discount rates.
We benchmarked these going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash investment in Value Retail VR.
The total value of the premium assumptions to relevant market evidence including specific property financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28 for the consolidated outlets held by Value Retail at 31 December 2016 was 4,096 million viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 59. transactions and other external data: financial statements and the related notes A to H for the parent 31 December 2015: 3,333 million of which Hammersons share is We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: company financial statements.
external valuers: The Directors confirmation on page 54 that they have carried out a The valuation of the property portfolio is a significant judgement We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity of information The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including area and is underpinned by a number of assumptions including provided to the external valuers including agreement on a sample preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and those that would threaten its business model, future performance, estimated rental values and yields and for premium outlets, future net basis back to underlying lease agreement: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting solvency or liquidity: operating income and discount rates.
The Group uses professionally Under our direction, the component auditors assessed the integrity framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent qualified external valuers to fair value the Groups portfolio at sixThe disclosures on pages 55 to 58 that describe those risks and of the information provided to the external valuers and through use company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom monthly intervals.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated: of their valuation specialists challenged the assumptions used in Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Please see notes 11, 12 and 13 to the financial statements and the valuations.
Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 The Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 77.
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their Key observations Summary of our audit approach identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to We concluded that the assumptions applied in the arriving at the fair value of the Groups property portfolio, including premium outlets held by continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date Value Retail, by the external valuers were appropriate.
Key risks of approval of the financial statements: Valuation of the property portfolio including premium outlets Property transactions, specifically the acquisition of the Irish held by Value Retail : and The Directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed property portfolio We have reviewed the legal agreements for the acquisition of the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and Property transactions, specifically the acquisition of the Irish During 2016 the Group continued its asset disposal programme each Irish asset, paying specific attention to the ownership why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their property portfolio.
recycling the proceeds into high-quality retail property including the interests acquired: statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that acquisition of the Irish property portfolio primarily Dundrum Town We have determined whether the acquisition for each property Materiality the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Centre and the Ilac Centre.
is accounted for in accordance with IFRS and that each property The materiality that we used in the current year was 50 million liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, We focussed the risk around property transactions to the acquisition is appropriately recorded in the financial statements depending on December 2015: 40 million which is less than 1% of including any related disclosures drawing attention to any of the Irish property portfolio due to its size with a cost in excess of the ownership interests acquired: and Shareholders Equity.
1 billion and the fact that the transaction is inherently complex, We have considered the presentation and disclosure of the Scoping We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of reflecting a number of steps to secure the consensual conversion of transaction in the financial statements.
We performed a full scope audit on the UK and French components.
the loans acquired in 2015 into the underlying investment properties.
Following the acquisition of the Irish property portfolio resulting However, because not all future events or conditions can be The transaction was further complicated by the fact that each from the conversion of the loans acquired in 2015 into the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to property has different ownership interests resulting in increased risk underlying investment properties this year, Ireland was included continue as a going concern.
of inaccurate presentation as a joint venture or a joint operation in as a separate component in our audit for the first time.
Independence We performed an audit of specified account balances for the Irish Hammersons accounting policy in respect of the transaction is component, Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils detailed in note 1 on page 137 which includes the accounting Together these five components account for 99% of the Groups Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent treatment of each investment property acquired and discussion net assets and 100% of profit before tax.
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in in the report of the Audit Committee on page 77. accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided Key observations any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
We concluded that the acquisition of the Irish property portfolio has been appropriately accounted for and disclosed within the financial We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have statements.
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
COM 127 126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 HAMMERSON.
COM 127 Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
primarily on the audit work at five significant components being Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the UK, France, Ireland, Value Retail and VIA Outlets VIA for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 2015: four with the additional component reflecting the acquisition in the year of the Irish property portfolio.
Together these components comprise 99% 2015: 99% of the Groups net assets Group materiality 50 million 2015: 40 million and 100% 2015: 100% of profit before tax.
The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, We determined materiality for the Group whilst Ireland, Value Retail accounted for as an associate and VIA Basis for determining to be 50 million 2015: 40 million, accounted for as a joint venture were subject to an audit of materiality which is below 1% 2015: below 1% of specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was shareholders equity.
based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
We determined materiality based on Our audit work at the five locations was executed at levels of shareholders equity as net asset value is a materiality applicable to each individual entity which were Rationale for the key performance indicator as it takes into lower than group materiality and ranged from 22.5 million to benchmark applied consideration the valuation of 37.5 million 2015: 10 million to 22 million.
For those balances Hammersons property portfolio and the impacting EPRA Adjusted Profit before Tax the materiality range investment in premium outlets.
was 5 million to 8.4 million 2015: 2.6 million to 6 million.
The group audit team are responsible for the work performed on the UK and Irish components with component teams performing the In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit before work for France, VR and VIA.
We discuss our component teams risk Tax as a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure assessment with them, review documentation of the findings from used within the Real Estate industry.
We applied a lower threshold their work and attend their key meetings, including close meetings.
of 11.2 million 2015: 10.9 million which equates to 4.8 % 2015: 5.1% of that measure for testing all balances impacting At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process that measure.
and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the Group and component materiality aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which Group materiality 50m Component materiality are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material 5,857m 22.5m to 37.5m misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
Audit Committee reporting threshold 2.5m Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Group net assets The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5 million 2015: Act 2006: 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We increased our Report for the financial year for which the financial statements threshold for reporting audit differences in line with market are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and practice.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
128 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 128 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit Matters on which we are required to report Respective responsibilities of directors and by exception auditor We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and Adequacy of explanations received and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial accounting records or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial in our opinion: primarily on the audit work at five significant components being statements in accordance with applicable law and International Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality the UK, France, Ireland, Value Retail and VIA Outlets VIA We have not received all the information and explanations we Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 2015: four with the additional component reflecting the require for our audit: or us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards acquisition in the year of the Irish property portfolio.
Together these Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on components comprise 99% 2015: 99% of the Groups net assets Group materiality 50 million 2015: 40 million company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and and 100% 2015: 100% of profit before tax.
received from branches not visited by us: or tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, The parent company financial statements are not in agreement The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include We determined materiality for the Group with the accounting records and returns.
whilst Ireland, Value Retail accounted for as an associate and VIA our dedicated professional standards review team and independent Basis for determining to be 50 million 2015: 40 million, accounted for as a joint venture were subject to an audit of partner reviews.
materiality which is below 1% 2015: below 1% of We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was shareholders equity.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and Directors remuneration in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We determined materiality based on our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not Our audit work at the five locations was executed at levels of Companys members those matters we are required to state to shareholders equity as net asset value is a been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be materiality applicable to each individual entity which were them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Rationale for the key performance indicator as it takes into audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
lower than group materiality and ranged from 22.5 million to extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility benchmark applied consideration the valuation of We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
For those balances to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Hammersons property portfolio and the impacting EPRA Adjusted Profit before Tax the materiality range as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we investment in premium outlets.
Corporate Governance Statement was 5 million to 8.4 million 2015: 2.6 million to 6 million.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of The group audit team are responsible for the work performed on the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Scope of the audit of the financial statements UK and Irish components with component teams performing the compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Adjusted Profit before An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and work for France, VR and VIA.
We discuss our component teams risk Governance Code.
Tax as a critical performance measure for the Group and a measure disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assessment with them, review documentation of the findings from used within the Real Estate industry.
We applied a lower threshold We have nothing to report arising from our review.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material their work and attend their key meetings, including close meetings.
of 11.2 million 2015: 10.9 million which equates to 4.8 % misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Our duty to read other information in the 2015: 5.1% of that measure for testing all balances impacting At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to that measure.
Annual Report and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Group and component materiality are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Annual Report is: subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We have overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read obtained an understanding of the Groups system of internal Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report controls and undertaken a combination of procedures, all of which financial statements: or to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material statements and to identify any information that is apparently Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially misstatement in the most effective manner possible.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
the course of performing our audit: or Opinion on other matters prescribed by the If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Otherwise misleading.
Companies Act 2006 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have In our opinion: identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5 million 2015: Act 2006: the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We increased our Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor Report for the financial year for which the financial statements have been disclosed.
threshold for reporting audit differences in line with market for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and practice.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation London, United Kingdom or misleading statements.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
17 February 2017 In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
COM 129 128 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 HAMMERSON.
