Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Hansteen Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 andofthe Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and asapplied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, asregards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern and the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Directors report on page 54.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 22 and 23 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation on page 54 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue asagoing concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
Wealso confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Independent Auditors report continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Investment property valuation Risk description At 31 December 2016, the Group held wholly-owned investment property valued at 1,718 million.
Investment properties are held at fair value on the balance sheet.
During the year, a net valuation gain of 43.4 million was recorded excluding acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange gain.
The fair values are calculated by third party valuation experts using information, such as lease agreements and tenancy data, in addition to professional judgement concerning marketing conditions and factors impacting individual properties.
The valuation process is inherently judgemental, which is why we consider this to be a key risk of material misstatement.
In particular, changes in assumptions such as the time a property will remain vacant when a tenant leaves, the rent free period required to attract a new tenant, and the level of expenditure required to maintain the property can lead to significant movements in the value of the property, as can changes in the underlying market conditions.
See also critical accounting judgements in note 4, and the investment property in note 18 of the financial statements and the Audit Committees report on pages 29 to 32.
How the scope of our For all significant jurisdictions, we met and challenged the external valuers with our own specialist valuation expert, and audit responded to assessed whether they were acting independently, including consideration of any other services provided to the Group therisk and the basis upon which their fees are calculated.
This included reviewing the terms of their engagement.
We tested the tenancy schedules for integrity by agreeing a sample of entries to lease agreements, and agreeing a sample of lease agreements to the tenancy schedule to test for completeness.
In addition, we visited a selection of properties with both occupied and vacant units in Germany and the UK to obtain assurance surrounding the existence ofassets in the portfolio.
Audit analytics were applied to compare the audited tenancy schedule with the data provided to the valuers thereby testing the integrity of the underlying data used by the valuers in their valuations.
This was supported by review of the reconciliation that management had performed to determine whether the data used by the valuers matched the tenancy schedules maintained by the Group.
We further employed audit analytics to identify properties which exhibited valuation movements and yields outside of our predetermined thresholds.
These were discussed in detail with the external valuers and key explanations provided were corroborated to underlying lease or cost data.
In addition, we tested a sample of other properties to determine whether the valuations were appropriately performed, and considered the value realised on property disposals compared to previous valuations to assess historical valuation reliability.
We checked that the valuation reports have been recorded correctly in the financial statements and appropriate disclosures have been made.
Key observations We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable marketevidence.
60 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Significant non-recurring transactions Risk description The nature of the Groups operations give rise to non-recurring transactions which can result in significant gains andlosses.
In the current year, the Group completed the acquisition and consolidation of the remaining Ashtenne Industrial Fund General Partner shares and the remaining units in the Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
These transactions are, by their nature, one-off and are complex.
There are management judgements inherent in their measurement, such as in calculating the value of the transaction or its resulting gain or loss, and their presentation in the financial statements has a material impact on the results for the year.
See also significant accounting policies in note 3 and business combinations in note 15 and the Audit Committees report on pages 29 to 32.
How the scope of our We evaluated the presentation of significant non-recurring transactions in the Annual Report.
Throughout our audit audit responded to work we were alert to significant non-recurring transactions, in addition to completing a review of legal correspondence the risk and Board meeting minutes, to assess whether the list of these transactions we considered was complete.
Specifically in relation to the Ashtenne Industrial Fund transaction, we have performed the following procedures: we have audited the underlying figures that arose as part of the transaction: we have assessed whether the accounting treatment proposed, including the transfer of control to the Group and full consolidation as a subsidiary, has been appropriately recorded in the accounts: we have assessed the disclosures in the Annual Report for consistency with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Key observations We concluded that significant non-recurring transactions during the year were properly accounted for and disclosed.
Wefound no material issues as a result of our procedures.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year the three-year Founder LTIP vested for the first time and we identified the calculation and presentation of this as a key risk, due to the size of the award.
For the current year, no Founder LTIP awards vested since the current three-year performance period commenced on 1 January 2016, and therefore this has no longer been identified as a key risk.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 14 million 2015: 10.4 million Basis for determining materiality 1.5% net assets.
Rationale for the benchmark applied We determined Group materiality using net assets on the basis that the Group is an asset-intensive business, with shareholder value being driven by net asset value movements.
The most significant balances in the financial statements are investment property and associated borrowings.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA earnings per share to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors.
EPRA earnings per share is based on the Groups EPRA earnings which is reconciled to IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent in note 14.
We applied a lower threshold of 2.7 million, which represents 5% of EPRA earnings, for testing all balances impacting EPRA earnings.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Independent Auditors report continued 924.2m 52.6m 2.7m 14m 1.385 -1.8m 7-9.1m 0.7m 0.7m NAV EPRA Earnings Group materiality Group materiality Component materiality range Component materiality range Audit committee reporting threshold Audit committee reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 700,000 2015: 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our threshold used to calculate this was 5% 2015: 2% and the increase in the year was to align with market practice.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, where full audits were carried out based on our assessment of the identified risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team performed the audits of the wholly owned entities in the United Kingdom and Germany, and component auditors performed the audits, based on instructions from the Group audit team, of the wholly owned entities in the Netherlands.
In a change from the prior year, following its consolidation, we have performed the audit of the UK-based Ashtenne Industrial Fund AIF rather than relying upon component auditors.
In addition, the Groupteam also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The components subject to a full audit represent the principal business units of the Group and account for 98% 2015: 97% of the Groups revenue, 99% 2015: 98% of the Groups profit before tax and 99% 2015: 98% of the Groups net assets.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each component and ranged between 7 million to 9.1 million 2015: 4.2 million to 7.8 million.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the Groups principal business units every year, including the overseas components audited directly by the Group audit team.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, we visited operations in Germany, the Netherlands and the UK.
62 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Revenue Profit before tax Net assets 2% 1% 1% 98% 99% 99% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at group level Review at group level Review at group level Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified anymaterial misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing ouraudit: or otherwise misleading.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Independent Auditors report continued In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Claire Faulkner Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London 19 March 2017 64 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
