98 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: intu properties plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2016: the Group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Context During the year to 31 December 2016, there have been no significant changes to business operations, investment property market yields, or to accounting standards relevant to the Group.
The most significant transactional activity was in relation to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in intu Merry Hill and the disposal of interest in intu Bromley.
As a result our audit approach is largely consistent with the prior year.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 104 million 2015: 101 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Specific Group materiality: 10 million 2015: 9 million which represents 5% of underlying profit before tax and Materiality associates applied to income statement line items that impact underlying earnings and to other finance costs.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced by the Groups central finance department using a single, consolidated general ledger, and the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
Audit scope Valuation of investment and development property.
Areas of focus Acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in intu Merry Hill.
Valuation of interest rate swaps.
Financial statements 99 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessing the Valuers expertise and objectivity Valuation of investment and development property We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, page 115 Accounting terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were policies, page 113 Use of estimates and assumptions and note 18 any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have to the financial statements.
imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered other The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with engagements which might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of any Valuer in valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material change, warrants their performance of the valuations was compromised.
specific audit focus in this area.
Data provided to the Valuers The Groups investment and development properties are shopping We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether property centres and comprise the majority of the assets in the Group balance specific information supplied to the Valuers by management reflected sheet, their carrying value amounting to 9.2 billion.
Additionally the the underlying property records held by the Group and which had been carrying value of the Groups share of investment and development tested during our audit.
We found them to be consistent.
properties held within joint ventures is 0.73 billion.
Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective due We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings to, among other factors, the individual nature of each property, its location with each of the Valuers.
We confirmed that the valuation approach for and the expected future rental revenues for that particular property.
each was in accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining Each valuation was carried out by one of the following third party the carrying value in the Consolidated balance sheet.
valuers, CB Richard Ellis, Knight Frank, Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Our work focused on the largest properties in the portfolio and those Lang LaSalle the Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, properties where the assumptions used and or year on year market and performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of value movement suggested a possible outlier versus market data for Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
The the shopping centre sector.
We compared the investment yields used Valuers used by the Group are well-known firms, with considerable by the Valuers to an estimated range of expected yields, determined via experience of the market in which the Group operates.
We also considered the In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into account reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable property specific current information such as the current tenancy to published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value, void rates agreements and rental income attached to the asset.
They then apply and rent free periods.
Finally, we evaluated year on year movements other assumptions such as yield and current market rent, which are in market value with reference to published benchmarks.
Where influenced by prevailing market yields and comparable market assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise deemed transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due to the unique nature unusual, and or valuations appeared to experience unexpected of each shopping centre, the assumptions to be applied are determined movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, having regard to the individual property characteristics at a granular, held further discussions with the Valuers.
unit by unit level, as well as considering the qualities of the shopping It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers centre as a whole.
and our review of the valuation reports that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
The evaluation of what were the appropriate assumptions to apply to any given property included determining the level of impact that recent significant market transactions could have on each individual propertys valuation, given its unique characteristics.
We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management and the Valuers, before determining the final valuation.
100 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Other factors that could affect valuations this year Valuation of investment and development property We noted that the Valuers did not include any market uncertainty continued clauses, although such clauses were included at the half-year in the immediate aftermath of the UKs EU Referendum.
We considered this to be reasonable and in line with current market practice among valuers, there being a sufficient level of transaction activity to support valuations.
Overall findings Our testing, which involved the use of our internal real estate valuation specialists, qualified chartered surveyors with deep market knowledge, indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in the context of the Groups investment and development properties portfolio and reflected market transactions during the year and the market circumstances as at year end.
With respect to the acquisition, we inspected the purchase agreements Acquisition of intu Merry Hill and assessed the assumptions underlying the acquisition date valuation.
Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, pages 114-117 Accounting We assessed whether the classification as a business combination and policies and note 38 to the financial statements.
treatment of the various aspects of the transaction were in accordance On 22 June 2016, intu acquired the remaining 50% of intu Merry Hill with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
from their previous joint venture partner, for 410 million.
The We carried out procedures to assess the fair value of the consideration acquisition was treated as a business combination and a gain on and of the assets and liabilities being acquired, the most significant being acquisition of 34.6 million was recorded in the income statement.
the investment property for which we reviewed the Valuers report This transaction resulted in derecognition of the Groups investment valuing the property on the date of acquisition.
See the Valuation of in joint venture and intu Merry Hill being recognised as a subsidiary.
investment and development property Area of Focus for a more detailed explanation of work we perform over property valuations.
Additionally we have considered the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of this transaction.
We are satisfied that this transaction has been accounted for and disclosed appropriately in accordance with IFRS 3 in the annual report.
We understood the Groups methodology in respect of determining the Valuation of interest rate swaps fair value as at the balance sheet date and assessed compliance with the Refer to page 117 Accounting policies, pages 46-51 Financial review requirements of relevant accounting standards.
and notes 13, 27 and 33 to the financial statements.
For a sample of swaps outstanding as at year end, we computed an The Group has entered into various interest rate swaps swaps which independent estimate of fair value as at the balance sheet date.
are carried at fair value through profit and loss.
Assessing the fair value Additionally we have considered the disclosures in the financial statements of the swaps is inherently subjective as the Group uses its judgement to in respect of swaps outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
select suitable valuation techniques and make assumptions which are We are satisfied that the fair value of swaps and presentation in the mainly based on market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
annual report is appropriate and is in line with the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
Financial statements 101 How we tailored the audit scope In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Although the Group has some interests in shopping centre operations outside the UK and the Group is structured as two operating segments, it operates a single reporting process with a centralised accounting function, therefore the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using numbers which are maintained on a single, consolidated trial balance, by the Groups finance department.
The majority of the underlying accounting records are maintained on the Groups single general ledger.
For Manchester Arndale, Cribbs Causeway, Centaurus Retail Park and St Davids, Cardiff rental income and property expense numbers are submitted quarterly by external property managers to the Groups finance department, who then review and enter the numbers onto the Groups general ledger.
We perform tests of controls over the review of the quarterly submissions and entry onto the Groups general ledger, and tests of details over the numbers within those submissions.
Quarterly submissions are also submitted to the Groups finance department for intu Asturias and Puerto Venecia, from the intu Spain finance team.
We carry out controls testing over these submissions in the same manner as for the UK submissions.
The UK audit team instructs the audit team in PwC Spain to perform specified substantive procedures on the submission packs for the Spanish centres.
The UK audit team determined the level of audit work required over the Spain submission packs by the audit team in Spain, and held regular discussions throughout the planning and execution phases of the audit.
We assessed the findings of the work performed by the audit team in Spain in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 104 million 2015: 101 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of investment property.
This represents a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality.
Specific Group materiality 10 million 2015: 9 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax and associates.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to underlying profit acknowledging that this is a secondary measurement attribute of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2015: 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons or relate to line items that impact underlying earnings.
102 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 113, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 58 to 96 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 58 to 96 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Financial statements 103 ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 96, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and to report.
understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 1, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would material to add or to threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 68 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
104 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Financial statements 105 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Ranjan Sriskandan Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 February 2017 The maintenance and integrity of the intu properties plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
