JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 94 Independent Auditors report To the members of JRP Group plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of JRP Group plc for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2016 set out on pages 100 to 153.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the 18 month period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview 11.5m 30 June 2015: 6.5m Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 0.7% 30 June 2015: 0.8% of Group net assets Coverage 98% 30 June 2015: 100% of Group net assets Risks of material misstatement vs 30 June 2015 Recurring risks Insurance liabilities No change Loans secured by residential mortgages No change Reinsurance assets and deposits received from insurers No change Event driven Acquisition accounting New risk Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: The Risk Our response Insurance liabilities The Group has significant insurance liabilities Our procedures included: 15,748.0 million: representing 71% 30 June 2015: 71% of the 30 June 2015: 7,440.3 Groups total liabilities.
This is an area that Control design and reperformance: testing of key million involves judgment in selecting an appropriate controls of review and approval over the methods methodology and significant judgement over and assumptions adopted over the Groups Refer to page 62 uncertain future outcomes, mainly the ultimate calculation of the insurance liabilities through Audit Committee Report, total settlement value of insurance liabilities.
inspecting signed documents and meeting page 111 accounting policy minutes.
We also involved our own IT specialists to and pages 133 to 137 Subjective estimates test the completeness and accuracy of the data financial disclosures.
extracted from the relevant systems used in The valuation of the insurance liabilities requires performing the calculation of the insurance the exercise of significant judgement in setting liabilities.
assumptions, in particular mortality and credit risk assumptions where the level of judgement We involved our own actuarial specialists to assist involved is greatest and a small change can have us in our challenge of the methodology and a significant impact on the reported balance.
Our procedures included: Mortality assumptions Benchmarking assumptions: evaluating the Changing trends on mortality and emerging appropriateness of the base table and mortality medical trends means there is a high level of assumptions used in the valuation of the uncertainty in the assumptions.
Retirement Income liabilities by reference to company and industry data on historical Credit risk assumptions mortality experience and mortality In setting the valuation discount rate, an explicit improvement rates: allowance for credit risk is included by making a our sector experience: assessing the credit risk deduction from the yields on debt and other fixed assumptions and appropriateness of the Groups income securities.
The assumptions used require methodology used to determine the liquidity significant judgement.
premium applied to the risk-free rate, by reference to industry practice and our Data capture expectation derived from market experience: The calculation of the insurance liabilities and involves a number of reports generated from the independent reperformance: using our own Groups systems and there is a risk that the valuation models and the Groups assumptions, reports do not contain complete and accurate we calculated the insurance liability balance for data.
a sample of policies across the reserves and compared to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of insurance liabilities, in particular the sensitivities of the valuations to alternative scenarios and inputs.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 96 Independent Auditors report continued To the members of JRP Group plc only 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The Risk Our response Loans secured by Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: residential mortgages Control design and reperformance: testing the The loans are measured at fair value, determined review and approval of the estimates and 6,430.4 million: 30 June through projecting the discounted cashflows using assumptions in the valuation process, including 2015: 3,471.8 million pricing model methodologies developed internally.
Our IT The methodology and its application involve specialists performed testing over the Refer to page 62 significant judgement, as do the estimates and completeness and accuracy of the data extracted Audit Committee Report, assumptions in the projected discounted from the relevant systems used in performing the page 109 accounting policy cashflows.
calculation of the fair value of loans secured by and pages 125 to 132 residential mortgages.
Subjective estimates We specifically focused on the assumptions used in the valuation model as expert judgements are The critical estimates include projected future required.
We used our actuarial specialists to receipts of interest and loan repayments and assist us in performing our audit procedures in this future house prices.
The key assumptions include area, which included: property price volatility, voluntary redemption Methodology choice: assessing pricing model rates, mortality rates and liquidity premium added methodologies against industry practice and to swap curve.
These are key inputs which affect valuation guidelines: the cashflow projection and the discount rate methodology design: critically assessing whether applied.
A small change of these assumptions can the valuation process is appropriately designed have a significant impact on the overall valuation.
and captures relevant valuation inputs: and benchmarking assumptions: assessing the Data capture estimates and assumptions used within the The calculation of the loans involves a number of valuation process, taking into consideration the reports generated from the Groups systems and Groups historical experience and industry data.
there is a risk that the reports do not contain Assessing transparency: considering the complete and accurate data adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages, in particular the sensitivity of the valuations adopted to alternative outcomes.
Acquisition accounting The acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc Our procedures in relation to the acquisition 571.9 million purchase was effective as at 1 April 2016.
There are a balance sheet of Partnership Assurance Group plc price resulting in 0.3 number of judgements and complex calculations included: million goodwill when applying acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 Our sector experience: critically evaluating the Business Combinations as follows: fair values of acquired identifiable assets and Refer to page 62 liabilities determined on initial recognition, Audit Committee Report, Subjective valuations including challenging the Groups judgements by pages 106 and 108 comparing to our sector knowledge and accounting policy and Measurement of the fair value of the identifiable experience: pages 112 to 113 financial assets and liabilities acquired as part of the accounting analysis: assessing the alignment of disclosures.
acquisition: and accounting policies between JRP Group plc and Purchase price allocations were performed by Partnership Assurance Group plc for determining external experts and any previously the fair value of insurance liabilities, loans unrecognised intangible assets acquired secured by residential mortgages and identified and fair valued.
These intangible reinsurance assets at acquisition date: assets included Acquired Value of In-Force benchmarking assumptions: with assistance Business in respect of the insurance contract from our own actuarial and corporate finance portfolios.
Additional intangible assets were valuation specialists, we assessed the recognised in relation to distribution and methodology used by the Group to identify the customer relationships, brands, technology and different intangible assets and challenged the software including IP.
assumptions in the external experts valuation models by comparing to market data: and assessing valuers credentials: evaluated the objectivity and competence of the external experts.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc during the period.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The Risk Our response Reinsurance assets Accounting treatment Our procedures included: and deposits received Accounting analysis: evaluating the classification of from insurers The Group needs todetermine based on the deposits from reinsurers between IFRS 4 and IAS 39 underlying cash flows and treaty terms whether based on the underlying cash flows and terms of the Reinsurance assets the deposits received from reinsurers should be treaties: 6,057.1 million: accounted for under either IFRS 4 or IAS 39.
Independent reperformance: assessing the Groups 30 June 2015: calculation of all reinsurance balances in respect of 2,477.1 million Forecast-based valuation the recapture transactions during the period through re-performance: and Deposits received from Under IFRS 4, the valuation of the reinsurance Enquiry of counterparties: obtaining counterparty insurers assets is sensitive to movements in mortality and confirmations for all recapture transaction amounts in 5,231.4 million: 30 economic assumptions.
Under both IFRS 4 and the period June 2015: 2,473.6 IAS 39, the valuation of the deposits received We involved our actuarial specialists to assist us in our million from reinsurers are driven by the discount rate challenge of the assumptions.
Our procedures applied to the cash flows.
The calculation of these included: Refer to page 62 balances involves significant judgement over Test of details: evaluating the appropriateness of Audit Committee uncertain future outcomes.
the mortality experience, discount rates and Report, pages 110 to 111 economic assumptions where applicable based on accounting policy and Complex process and inputs classification used in the valuation with reference pages 133 and 138 to the bases used for policyholder liabilities and the financial disclosures.
As part of the reinsurance arrangements the terms of the reinsurance treaty: Group has the option to re-capture the methodology implementation: comparing the reinsurance in accordance with the reinsurance Groups valuations for the reinsurance assets and treaty.
There is an increased risk of material error deposits received from reinsurers against the in the accounting treatment due to the calculation basis set out in the reinsurance treaties complexities of the recapture process as there is a and industry practice: and large amount of inputs required in the calculation our sector experience: considering the Groups and due to the non-recurring nature of the analysis of the movements in reinsurance assets transaction.
and deposit liabilities with reference to the movements in policyholder liabilities, our Calculation error understanding of developments in the business and our expectation derived from market experience.
In addition, the calculation of the recaptured Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of insurance balances is also complex and the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions susceptible to error.
used in the calculation of reinsurance balances, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 98 Independent Auditors report continued To the members of JRP Group plc only 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Total Group net assets Materiality of the scope of our audit 1,610.6m 11.5m 30 June 2015: 6.5m The materiality for the Group financial statements 30 June 2015: 814m as a whole was set at 11.5 million 30 June 2015: 11.5m 6.5 million, determined with reference to a Whole financial benchmark of Group net assets, of which it statements materiality represents 0.7% 30 June 2015: 0.8%.
We 30 June 2015: 6.5m consider Group net assets to be the most appropriate benchmark because it is a key 7.1m financial statement metric used in assessing the Materiality at 6 components performance of the Group.
30 June 2015: 6.5m We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 530,000 30 June 2015: 325,000 in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 28 30 June 2015: 14 reporting Total Group net assets 530k components, we subjected 6 30 June 2015: 14 Group materiality Misstatements reported to to audits for Group reporting purposes.
For the the audit committee remaining 22 components 30 June 2015: 0, 30 June 2015: 325k we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material mistatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work Total Group revenue Total profits and losses accounted for the percentages illustrated that make up Group opposite.
profit before tax 1 8 The Group team approved the component 0 0 materiality of 7.1 million 30 June 2015: 6.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
99% 92% 2015: 100% 2015: 100% The Group team performed the audit of the Group, the audits of significant components and analyses at group level of financial information for the 100 100 non-significant components.
99 92 Total Group net assets 2 0 98% 2015: 100% 100 98 Key: Full scope for group audit purposes 31 December 2016 Analysis at aggregated group level 31 December 2016 Full scope for group audit purposes 30 June 2015 Analysis at aggregated group level 31 December 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Act 2006 is unmodified The Directors statements, set out on pages 86 and 87, in In our opinion: relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 87 has been properly prepared in accordance with the relating to the Companys compliance with the eleven Companies Act 2006: and provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the information given in the Strategic Report and the specified for our review.
Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Scope and responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, wehave As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities nothing material to add or draw attention to in relationto: Statement set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for The Directors statement of viability on pages 86 and 87, the preparation of the financial statements and for being concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the on that, the Directors assessment and expectations of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Groups continuing in operation over the three years to Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body and is subject to important the disclosures on page 86 of the Annual Report and Accounts explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding which we are required to report by exception of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, the basis of our opinions.
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Ben Priestley Senior Statutory Auditor We have identified material inconsistencies between the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 15 Canada Square financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and London E14 5GL understandable and provides the information necessary for 9 March 2017 shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
