Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc What we have audited Report on the financial statements The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Our opinion accounts the Annual Report, comprise: In our opinion: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: Ladbrokes Coral Group plcs formerly Ladbrokes plc group the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016: financial statements and company financial statements the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement thefinancial statements give a true and fair view of of comprehensive income for the year then ended: thestateofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year at31December 2016 and of the Groups profit and cash thenended: flowsforthe year thenended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year the group financial statements have been properly prepared then ended: and inaccordance with International Financial Reporting the notes to the financial statements, which include a Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: summaryof significant accounting policies and other the company financial statements have been properly explanatory information.
preparedin accordance with United Kingdom Generally AcceptedAccounting Practice: and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are thegroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 4.7 million which represents 5% of average profit before tax and non-trading items of Ladbrokes over a three year period, with additional consideration for thepost-acquisition results arising from the 1 November 2016 Coral Group acquisition.
Materiality We conducted full scope audits at six reporting units: Ladbrokes UK Retail, Ladbrokes UK Digital, Coral, Australia and two reporting units included within Corporate costs.
Our audit scope addressed 83% of the Groups revenue and 74% of its profit before tax and Audit scope non-trading items.
Retail licence intangible assets and PPE.
focus Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing nature of the digital gaming sector.
Recognition and disclosure of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Nature and presentation of non-trading items.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
com The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order toprovide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be readin this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Net assets excluding acquired intangible assets and consideration Acquisition of Coral Group We obtained the acquisition agreement and read it to understand Refer to page 51 Audit Committee report, note 30 of the financial the substance of the transaction, including the consideration and statements and note 4 for the directors disclosures of therelated the assets and liabilities acquired.
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further We reviewed managements assessment of the fair value of the information.
assets and liabilities and audited the adjustments that were made On 1 November 2016 the Group acquired GC Group Jersey Limited as a result of this assessment to record assets and liabilities at Coral Group for consideration of 1.17 billion, satisfied entirely fairvalue.
through the issue of shares.
Accounting for the acquisition required We concluded that appropriate adjustments had been made to a fair value exercise to assess the assets and liabilities acquired, reflect fair value or to align accounting policies.
Specifically we including valuing any separately identifiable intangible assets agreed the fair value of divested shops, recognised as held for andthe resulting goodwill.
saleonthe acquired balance sheet, to the sale agreement.
As a condition of the acquisition, the Group was required to Recognition and measurement of Intangible assets disposeof 360 licenced betting offices LBOs.
We assessed the completeness and quantum of intangible assets Management identified and quantified the fair values of identified by management against our own expectations formed from  assets, with the assistance of an external our knowledge and experience of the industry and the Coral Group, expert.
Management identified 1,275 million of intangible assets and from the disclosures surrounding the rationale for the transaction.
inrespect of trade names, customer relationships, premises We determined that the analysis prepared by management was licences, franchisee agreements and software technology.
appropriate based on our understanding of the Coral Groups particular circumstances and our knowledge and experience of the industry.
The valuation of these intangible assets involves significant judgement as it required managements use of assumptions We assessed the fair value of those intangible assets determined including revenue growth, theoretical royalty rates used to value bymanagements external expert, utilising our own valuation trade names, customer churn rates and the application of a specialists.
In this process, we evaluated the professional competence discount rate that is reflective of the risks of the business.
and objectivity of that expert and performed the following: We focused on this matter due to the significance of management We challenged management on the completeness of the identified assumptions and judgements exercised.
The identification and intangible assets: valuation ofintangible assets can be a particularly subjective We audited the methodology, underlying assumptions and process.
Any difference to these assumptions could cause a mechanical accuracy of valuation models for each of the material misstatement.
significant acquired intangible assets and consideration paid: We assessed the appropriateness of the cash flow projections The residual goodwill arising from this acquisition amounted to thatunderpinned each of these valuations, by comparing to 913 million.
Coralmanagement budgets, historical cash flows and understanding the reasons for the growth profile of projections: We carried out an independent assessment of key assumptions such as royalty rates and agreed the customer churn rates used inthe valuation of customer relationships to managements historical experience: We evaluated the useful economic lives assigned to the intangible assets by reference to the assumptions used in the valuation including discount rate, growth rate, useful economic lives, industry comparisons and our own expectations: We then considered the amount of residual goodwill in proportion to the total consideration and the fair value of the other assets acquired.
From our procedures above, we did not find any significant differences inthe identified intangibles and the arising values recognised in the financialstatements.
As a result of our work, we determined that the acquisition of Coralhas been appropriately disclosed in note 30 to the group financial statements.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Retail licence intangible assets and PPE We agreed the forecasts used in the impairment calculation to the At 31 December 2016 Retail licence intangible assets amounted to latest Board approved plans.
We evaluated the assumptions in these 291.6million and predominantly related to the Ladbrokes business.
forecasts and plans and considered the evidence in support of them, principally in relation to historical trends and actual performance At 31 December 2016 the Group performed an impairment in2016.
This included considering trends in staking, gross win assessment for the Ladbrokes Retail UK and Ireland cash andmargins and to the operating cost base of the retail estate.
generating units and indefinite lived licences.
Ourwork did not highlight any material issues.
As disclosed in note 14 this resulted in an impairment charge of We considered whether the changes in assumptions and 91.4 million, in part resulting from a change in the Groups methodology in the impairment calculation were to more methodology for assessing such impairments, including no longer appropriate bases.
We found conducting an impairment assessment to group shops operating close together where judgement had on a shop by shop basis to be more consistent with overall retail previously been exercised that their cash flows were not entirely sector practice and consistent with the way the Group intends to independent and to increase the allocation of direct costs and evaluate performance within its retail estate.
We found a fuller assets in the impairment exercise to a more fully absorbed basis allocation of direct costs and assets to individual shops and a rather than marginal contribution basis.
changeto a finite life to be consistent with our own assessment In addition the Group decided to change from an indefinite life ofthe longer term market trends affecting retail bookmaking.
basis of accounting to a prospective 15 year life for Retail licences.
We considered the basis of support for their adoption of a prospective 15 year life for retail licences and corroborated the Given the extent of judgement over the methodology used and reasonableness of this estimate independently.
the assumptions within the forecasts in the impairment evaluation and the estimated life our focus was on the key assumptions, and on evaluating whether the basis being adopted at 31 December 2016 was more appropriate than the previous basis both in light ofcurrent market and regulatory conditions and the Groups Retailstrategy in response to these conditions.
Revenue recognition For Retail, the work we performed related to tests to match the We focused on Retail and Digital revenue given its overall population of revenue transactions recorded in the general ledger significance to the financial statements and the reliance on a tocash and to identify and test non-standard transactions and number of IT systems and manual reconciliations of cash and otheradjustments.
During the audit, we found that certain controls customer account balances.
in Ladbrokes UK Retail business had not operated fully effectively throughout the year and as a result, modified our approach to Refer to note 5 Segment information of the financial statements.
incorporate additional substantive testing of revenue through to cash.
From our work we obtained appropriate evidence in support ofthe occurrence of revenue recorded in the Retail operations.
The approach to Digital revenue was to focus the testing on the movements between opening and closing customer balances and the subsequent revenue recognised by testing three way reconciliations of customer balances, net deposits and withdrawals and net gaming revenue for the year.
From our testing we obtained appropriate evidence in support of the occurrence of revenue recorded in the Digital operations.
Compliance with laws and regulations given the developing We tested certain controls and risk management processes in nature of the digital gaming sector operation for material licences.
The international legal and licensing framework for digital gaming We assessed how management monitor legal and regulatory remains under development.
This evolving environment makes developments and their assessment of the potential impact on compliance an increasingly complex area with the potential thebusiness.
We read the Groups reports on litigation matters.
forlitigation and licence withdrawal from non-compliance Wealso read external legal or regulatory advice sought by the Group.
withterritory specific regulations, responsible gambling and Whilst acknowledging that this is a judgemental area, we found that anti-money laundering obligations.
the Group had an appropriate basis of accounting for these matters Given the potential for litigation, the risk of non-compliance in the financial statements and were satisfied that appropriate withdigital gaming laws and licence regulations could give provisions within litigation and regulatory provisions of 18 million risetopotentially material fines, penalties or legal claims.
in note23 had been recorded for potential exposures.
com Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition and disclosure of deferred tax assets We examined the basis of calculation for the deferred tax items andliabilities arising from the Coral acquisition, and considered these to be Refer to page 51 Audit Committee Report, note 4 Summary of consistent with the valuation exercise undertaken and the manner significant accounting policies and note 11 Income tax expense.
inwhich these positions are expected toreverse.
As a result of the acquisition of the Coral business during the period, With regard to the recognition of assets arising from carried forward the Group has recognised deferred tax liabilities of 211.7 million, losses we considered the advice received by the Group from its third mostly in respect of intangible assets, and deferred tax assets of party advisers to assess the appropriateness of the related amounts 52.1 million, primarily in respect of carried forward losses.
and disclosures in the financial statements.
We also assessed the supporting evidence for the recognition of We focused on this area given the significant tax balances additional tax assets including the Groups forecast profits and arisingon acquisition and because there is judgement applied indetermining the Groups deferred tax assets in relation to concluded the amounts recorded in the financial statements taxlosses, in terms of both recognition and disclosure.
Based on our examination of the calculations prepared by management we found that the overall position adopted in the financial statements and the related disclosures in respect of tax were reasonable and appropriate.
Nature and presentation of non-trading items For a number of items in particular corporate transaction costs, Refer to page 51 Audit Committee Report, note 2 Basis of integration costs and adjustments to contingent consideration all preparation and note 7 Non-trading items.
ofwhich relate to the Coral acquisition, the indirect tax settlement and related interest income and amortisation of acquired intangibles The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed there was little judgement in the quantification of the charge or asnon-trading.
These items total to 302.0 million before tax and credit and we tested the amounts on a sample basis to supporting includeimpairment losses on retail licences, software, customer documentation and cash payments or receipts where relevant.
relationships and other intangible assets, integration costs, adjustments to contingent consideration, corporate transaction For accrued redundancy costs included within integration costs we costs, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and indirect tested that a sufficiently specific restructuring plan had been taxsettlement.
communicated to the affected individuals.
We focused on the judgements inherent in such charges and the Our work in respect in respect of retail licence impairment is detailed appropriateness of their disclosure as non-trading in line with the above.
We tested impairment losses relating to software, customer Groups policy for such items.
relationships and other intangibles arising from the Coral acquisition to Board approved plans to migrate to common systems and its plans for specific markets subject to impairment.
In particular weconsidered whether there was a risk of overstatement of impairments and evaluated the extent of remaining software assets supporting the Groups ongoing activities.
We found that, whilst there was a degree of judgement involved, the impairments were consistent with the Groups plans and were appropriately calculated.
We tested the presentation of the non-trading items in the financial statements by assessing whether the classification was in line with the Groups accounting policy on non-trading items set out in note 4 of the financial statements and considering the related disclosures.
We found that the Groups accounting policy had been followed, and that the items disclosed as non-trading were appropriate to bedisclosed separately with adequate related disclosures.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 95 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent andthe industry in which the Group operates.
of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, The Group acquired the Coral Group on 1 November 2016 and both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
consolidated its results for the subsequent two months.
As a result Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality there were six reporting units that were in the scope of our audit for the financial statements as a whole as follows: due to their size and risk characteristics: Coral Group, Ladbrokes UKRetail and UK Digital, Australia and two corporate reporting Overall group 4.7 million 2015: 4.7 million.
Work in the Coral Group focused on UK Retail, UK Digital, materiality Italyand the corporate office.
All work was undertaken by the Group engagement team with the exception of Australia and Coral How we 5% of average profit before tax and non-trading Group, where we engaged component audit teams.
Where work determined it items of Ladbrokes over a three year period, with was performed by component auditors we determined the level additional consideration for the post-acquisition ofinvolvement we needed at those reporting units to be able to results arising from the 1 November 2016 Coral conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been Group acquisition.
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial Rationale for We applied this benchmark because, in our view, statements as a whole.
This included detailed planning discussions, benchmark this is the metric against which the performance participation in clearance meetings with management and review applied of the Group is most commonly measured and of component work papers.
In the planning discussions with the because in our view this is the most relevant Coral component auditors and management we discussed the measure of recurring performance.
We used a scope of their planned work and risk assessment in light of our three year average reflecting a period of more knowledge and experience of the sector and the Coral businesses.
significant marketing expenditure relating to The Group consolidation and a number of other areas were audited growing the digital business which impacts centrally.
This included tax, share-based payments and pensions.
profitability in the short term.
Our audit scope addressed 83% of the Groups revenue and 74% ofits profit before tax and non-trading items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 250,000 2016: 250,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
com Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 89, in relation to going concern.
Wehave nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation tothe directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of theaudit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
Wehave nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group andCompany acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 91, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 52, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions theworkof the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 97 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidityof the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 37 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that material to add or would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or todraw attention to.
the directors explanation on page 41 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing asto how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why material to add or theyconsider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable todraw attention to.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due overthe period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting theirstatements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether thestatements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
com Adequacy of accounting records and information Responsibilities for the   the audit Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Our responsibilities and those of the directors if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement we have not received all the information and explanations we set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation require for our audit: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the true and fair view.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the received from branches not visited by us: or financialstatements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs the company financial statements and the part of the UK& Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the  Report to be audited are not in Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Directors remuneration 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the isshown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Companies Act 2006. agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting What an audit of financial statements involves Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report assurance that the financial statements are free from material arising from this responsibility.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups theCorporate Governance Statement relating to ten further and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having applied and adequately disclosed: performed ourreview.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our ownjudgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financialstatements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to providea reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information thatis apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Stuart Newman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 March 2017 Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 99
