STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial statements continued Land Securities Annual Report 2016 91 What we have audited Land Securities Group PLCs financial statements comprise: INDEPENDENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 AUDITORS Consolidated income statement for the year then ended REPORT Consolidated statement of comprehensive income TO THE MEMBERS OF for the year then ended LAND SECURITIES GROUP PLC Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the Statement of changes in equity for the year then year then ended ended Our opinion on the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year Statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended In our opinion: Related notes 1 to 44 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 44 to the financial statements Land Securities Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent company financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and statements the financial statements give International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as a true and fair view of the state of the regards the Parent company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of Groups and of the Parent companys affairs the Companies Act 2006. as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Overview of our audit approach the Group financial statements have been Risks of material The valuation of investment property including properties within the properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs misstatement development programme and investment properties held in joint ventures as adopted by the European Union: Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition, the treatment the Parent company financial statements of rents, incentives and recognition of trading property proceeds.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Audit scope The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom and operates through two segments, London and Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit European Union as applied in accordance scope.
This included the Group audit team performing direct audit procedures with the provisions of the Companies Act on joint venture balances included within the Group financial statements.
2006: and Materiality Overall Group materiality of 62.0m which represents 0.5% of carrying value of the financial statements have been investment properties line item in the Group balance sheet at 31 March 2016 prepared in accordance with the Specific materiality of 21.0m which represents 5% of adjusted profit before tax requirements of the Companies Act 2006, is applied to account balances not related to investment properties either and, as regards the Group financial wholly owned or held within joint ventures.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
WHAT WE CONCLUDED TO RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The valuation of the investment Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment property included: We have audited the property portfolio inputs, assumptions and We evaluated the Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the investment methodology used by the 2016: 12,357.7m in investment properties property portfolio and managements review of the valuations.
We and 1,629.9m the Groups share in conclude that the We evaluated the competence of the external valuers which included consideration of investment properties held in joint methodology applied is their qualifications and expertise.
ventures 2015: 12,158.0m in investment reasonable and that the properties and 1,403.0m in investment We assessed the Groups change in external valuers during the year.
We met with the external valuations are an properties held in joint ventures new external valuer to discuss their valuation approach and the judgements they made appropriate assessment in assessing the property valuation for the first time and we obtained an understanding of the market value of Refer to the Accountability section of the of where the approach or assumptions differed from those used by the predecessor investment properties at Annual Report pages 6568 : Accounting external valuers.
31 March 2016. policies pages 99100 : Note 15 of the Financial Statements pages 113116 : and We performed testing over source documentation provided by the Group to the Our Chartered Surveyors Note 16 of the Financial Statements external valuers.
This included agreeing a sample of this documentation back to concluded that the sample pages 117121 underlying lease data and vouching costs incurred to date data provided in respect of of valuations they reviewed development properties.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the costs to were reasonable.
The valuation of investment property complete information in respect of properties in the course of development by including properties within the comparing the total forecast costs to contractual arrangements and approved budgets.
development programme and investment properties held in joint ventures requires We included Chartered Surveyors on our audit team who reviewed and challenged the We conclude that significant judgement and estimates by valuation approach and assumptions for a sample of properties which comprised 70% management provided an management and the external valuers.
Any of the market value of investment properties including investment properties held in appropriate level of review input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases joint ventures.
Our Chartered Surveyors compared the equivalent yields applied to and challenge over the used in these judgements such as in each property to an expected range of yields taking into account market data and asset valuations but did not identify respect of estimated rental value and specific considerations.
They also considered whether the other assumptions applied evidence of undue yield profile applied could result in a by the external valuers, such as the estimated rental values, voids, tenant incentives management influence.
material misstatement of the income and development costs to complete were supported by available data such as recent statement and balance sheet.
92 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 WHAT WE CONCLUDED TO RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We also note that this risk has increased Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the external valuers to discuss since last year given the stage of the the findings from our audit work described above and to seek further explanations property cycle and in light of current as required.
We also discussed the impact of current market conditions on the market conditions which have reduced the property valuations.
volume of transactions in some parts of the We conducted detailed analytical procedures by forming an expectation of the market property investment market.
value of each property in the portfolio by reference to our understanding of the UK real There is also a risk that management may estate market, external market data and asset specific considerations to evaluate the influence the significant judgements and appropriateness of all of the valuations adopted by the Group.
We investigated further the estimates in respect of property valuations valuations of those properties which were not in line with our initial expectations which in order to achieve property valuation and included further discussions with management and the external valuers and, where other performance targets to meet market appropriate, involvement of our Chartered Surveyors.
We attended meetings between management and the external valuers to assess for evidence of management influence and we obtained a confirmation from the external valuers that they had not been subject to influence from management.
We utilised our detailed analytical procedures and work of the Chartered Surveyors described above in order to assess for evidence of undue management influence.
We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties focusing primarily on development properties which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these developments.
We met with project managers for major properties under development and assessed project costs, progress of development and leasing status and considered the reasonableness of forecast costs to complete included in the valuations as well as identified contingencies, exposures and remaining risks.
We corroborated the information provided by the project managers through valuation review, site visits and cost analysis.
We also reviewed development feasibilities and monthly development spend against budget.
Scope of our procedures We performed full scope audit procedures over valuation of the whole of investment property including properties within the development programme and investment properties held in joint ventures.
Revenue recognition, including the Our audit procedures around revenue recognition included: We audited the timing of timing of revenue recognition, the revenue recognition, We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition and the treatment of treatment of rents, incentives and treatment of rents and rents which have been designed by the Group to prevent and detect fraud and errors in recognition of trading property incentives and recognition of revenue recognition.
This included testing the controls governing approvals and proceeds trading property proceeds changes to lease terms and the upload of this information to the Groups property and assessed the risk of 2016: 603.4m rental income and information management system.
194.9m trading property sales proceeds Based upon the audit We also performed controls testing on the billings process.
2015: 575.7m rental income and 55.5m procedures performed, we trading property sales proceeds We performed detailed testing for a sample of revenue transactions by agreeing them concluded that revenue has back to lease agreements.
This included focusing upon incentives included within lease been recognised on an Refer to the Accountability section of the agreements and we critically assessed whether the appropriate accounting treatment appropriate basis in the year.
Annual Report pages 6568 : Accounting had been followed.
policies pages 99100 : and Note 5 of the Financial Statements page 104 We agreed a sample of lease agreements to the spreadsheets used to calculate straight-lining of revenue in accordance with SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives and Our risk description differs from corroborated the arithmetical accuracy of these spreadsheets and the resulting amounts 31 March 2015 in that we no longer include in revenue for straight-lining of incentives.
other property income as part of our risk.
We also included the recognition of Detailed analytical procedures were performed in connection with revenue including trading property proceeds for the year rents, incentives and other property related revenue to assess whether revenue had ended 31 March 2016 given the been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
completion of Kings Gate property.
We challenged the assessment of recoverability of the tenant lease incentive receivable Market expectations and revenue balance by evaluating the financial viability of the major tenants with related lease profit based targets may place pressure incentive debtors.
on management to distort revenue We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRSs as recognition.
This may result in adopted by the European Union.
overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting current or future targets We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of or expectations management override of controls including journal entry testing, which included particular focus on journal entries which impact revenue.
We tested a sample of contracts recognised as trading property proceeds during the year to verify that revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Scope of our procedures The whole Group was subject to full scope audit procedures over revenue.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial statements continued Land Securities Annual Report 2016 93 In the prior year, our auditors report included The scope of our audit Our application of materiality a risk of material misstatement in relation to Tailoring the scope We apply the concept of materiality in planning accounting for complex acquisitions and The Group solely operates in the United and performing the audit, in evaluating the disposals and consideration of transaction Kingdom and operates through two segments, effect of identified misstatements on the audit arrangements.
In the current year, we have London and Retail, both of which were subject and in forming our audit opinion.
not included this risk within our auditors report to the same audit scope.
The Group audit team as the Group did not enter into complex performed all the work necessary to issue the Materiality transactions or transactions that required a Group and Parent company audit opinion, The magnitude of an omission or misstatement significant audit effort by the Group audit team.
including undertaking all of the audit work on the that, individually or in the aggregate, could risks of material misstatement identified above.
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the Changes from the prior year financial statements.
Materiality provides How we approached the Group audit and a basis for determining the nature and extent scoping is consistent with our strategy in the of our audit procedures.
The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: Table 51 Performance Audit Basis Materiality materiality differences Overall 0.5% of carrying value of investment properties 62.0m 46.0m 3.1m 2015: 61.0m 2015: 46.0m 2015: 3.0m Account balances not related Profit before tax, excluding the impact of the net surplus on 21.0m 16.0m 1.0m to investment properties either revaluation of investment properties either wholly owned or 2015: 19.0m 2015: 14.0m 2015: 0.9m wholly owned or held within held within joint ventures Adjusted PBT joint ventures When establishing our overall audit strategy, investment property disposals, we reduced related to investment properties which are set we determined a magnitude of uncorrected our materiality threshold to 62.0m, as noted in at 5% of their respective planning materiality.
misstatements that we judged would be material the table above, which represents 0.5% of the We also agreed to report differences below that for the financial statements as a whole.
We investment property balance of 12.4bn as at threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting determined that the carrying value of investment 31 March 2016. on qualitative grounds.
property would be the most appropriate basis We evaluate any uncorrected for determining overall materiality given that the Performance materiality misstatements against both the quantitative Groups investment property balance accounts The application of materiality at the individual measures of materiality discussed above and for around 82% of the Groups total assets and account or balance level.
It is set at an amount in light of other relevant qualitative the fact that key users of the Groups financial to reduce to an appropriately low level the considerations in forming our opinion.
statements are primarily focused on the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected valuation of the investment property portfolio.
and undetected misstatements exceeds Scope of the audit of the financial This provided a basis for determining the nature, materiality.
statements timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, On the basis of our risk assessments, together An audit involves obtaining evidence about the identifying and assessing the risk of material with our assessment of the Groups overall amounts and disclosures in the financial misstatement and determining the nature, control environment, our judgement is that statements sufficient to give reasonable timing and extent of further audit procedures.
overall performance materiality and specific assurance that the financial statements are We have determined that for other performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for free from material misstatement, whether account balances not related to investment misstatement in an individual account or balance caused by fraud or error.
This includes an properties either wholly owned or held within for the Group should be 75% 2015:75% of assessment of: whether the accounting joint ventures a misstatement of less than the respective materiality.
We have set policies are appropriate to the Groups and the materiality for the financial statements as a performance materiality at this percentage due Parent companys circumstances and have whole could influence the economic decisions to our past experience of the audit that indicates been consistently applied and adequately of users.
We have determined that materiality a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for these areas should be based upon profit and uncorrected.
Our objective in adopting this accounting estimates made by the directors: before tax of 1,335.6m, excluding the impact approach is to confirm that total detected and and the overall presentation of the financial of the net surplus on revaluation of investment undetected audit differences do not exceed our statements.
In addition, we read all the financial properties either wholly owned or held within materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
and non-financial information in the Annual joint ventures of 909.8m Adjusted PBT as Report to identify material inconsistencies with overall materiality is applied to the net surplus Reporting threshold the audited financial statements and to identify on revaluation.
We believe that it is appropriate An amount below which identified misstatements any information that is apparently materially to use a profit based measure as profit is also a are considered as being clearly trivial.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent focus of users of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we with, the knowledge acquired by us in the During the course of our audit, we would report to the Committee all uncorrected course of performing the audit.
If we become reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual audit differences in excess of 3.1m 2015: aware of any apparent material misstatements carrying value of investment properties was 3.0m, as well as audit differences in excess of or inconsistencies we consider the implications lower than that which we had used as the initial 1.0m 2015: 0.9m that relate to our specific for our report.
basis for determining overall materiality due to testing of the other account balances not 94 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Respective responsibilities of directors This report is made solely to the companys Opinion on other matters prescribed by and auditor members, as a body, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act In our opinion: Responsibilities Statement set out on page 90, 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the part of the Directors Remuneration the Directors are responsible for the that we might state to the companys members Report to be audited has been properly preparation of the financial statements and for those matters we are required to state to them prepared in accordance with the being satisfied that they give a true and fair in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Our responsibility is to audit and express To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do the information given in the Strategic an opinion on the financial statements in not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Report and the Directors Report for the accordance with applicable law and other than the company and the companys financial year for which the financial International Standards on Auditing UK and members as a body, for our audit work, for this statements are prepared is consistent Ireland ISAs.
Those standards require us to report, or for the opinions we have formed.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the annual We have no exceptions reporting report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions reporting to report.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements to report.
the Directors statement, set out on page 90, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the Directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to We have nothing UK and Ireland reporting in relation to: material to add or to the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 16 May 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Land Securities Group PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
