Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Independent Auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Opinion on financial statements of LondonMetric Going concern and the Directors assessment of the Property Plc principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the The financial statements give a true and fair view of the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 as at 31 March 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year to the financial statements and the Directors statement on then ended the longer term viability of the Group contained within the The Group financial statements have been properly strategic report.
prepared in accordance with International Financial We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the relation to: European Union The Parent Company financial statements have been The Directors conrmation on page 36 that they have properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and as applied business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity in accordance with the provisions of the Companies The disclosures on pages 37 to 43 that describe those risks Act 2006 and explain how they are being managed or mitigated The financial statements have been prepared in The Directors statement in the Report of the Directors accordance with the requirements of the Companies about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and their identication of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of The financial statements comprise the Group income at least twelve months from the date of approval of the statement, the Group and Parent Company balance sheets, financial statements the Group and Parent Company statement of changes in equity and the Group cash ow statement and the related The Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they notes 1 to 19 for the Group financial statements and the have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what related notes i to vii for the Parent Company financial period they have done so and why they consider that statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been period to be appropriate, and their statement as to applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements whether they have a reasonable expectation that the is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Group will be able to continue in operation and meet Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their the Companies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework assessment, including any related disclosures drawing that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions Company financial statements is applicable law and United We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future Disclosure Framework.
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not aguarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non audit services referred to in those standards.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
The Audit Committee has requested that while not required under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, weinclude in our report any significant key observations in respect of these assessed risks of material misstatement.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on pages 73 and 74.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of investment property Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations We are satisfied that The Group owns a portfolio of retail We assessed managements process for reviewing and assessing the work of the external valuer and the key assumptions and distribution property assets, which development appraisals applied in calculating is valued at 1,521 million 2015: 1,400 the property million, including share of joint venture We assessed the competence, objectivity and valuations are within properties, as at 31 March 2016.
The integrity of the external valuer and read their terms of an acceptable range.
valuation of the portfolio is a significant engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected The testing performed judgement area and is underpinned their objectivity or may have imposed scope in relation to the final by a number of assumptions including limitations on their work property valuations i capitalisation yields ii future proved satisfactory.
lease income and iii with reference We obtained the external valuation reports and met to development properties, costs with the external valuers of the portfolio to assess the results of their work.
We assessed and challenged tocomplete.
the valuation process, performance of the portfolio The Group uses professionally qualied and significant assumptions and critical judgement external valuers to fair value the Groups areas, including lease incentives, future lease income portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
We benchmarked these assumptions to valuers are engaged by the Directors relevant market evidence including specic property and performed their work in accordance sales and other external data with the Royal Institution of Chartered We tested a sample of properties through Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional benchmarking of yields, understanding the valuation Standards.
The valuers used by the methodology and wider market analysis Group have considerable experience We performed audit procedures to assess the in the markets in which the Group integrity of a sample of the information provided operates.
tothe external valuer by agreeing that information tounderlying lease agreements The valuation exercise also relies on the accuracy of the underlying lease and We tested a sample of the costs to complete financial information provided to the in relation to the development properties via valuers by management.
agreement to supporting documentation Refer to page 73 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy and note 9 on pages 118 to 120 nancialdisclosures.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Independent Auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc continued Property transaction accounting Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations The Group has undertaken a large We assessed the fair value of consideration and The results of our testing confirmed key transaction terms by reference number of property acquisitions for a were satisfactory and to acquisition or disposal agreements and other total consideration of 187.6 million and we found no instances external evidence for all significant acquisitions and disposals for a total of 204.1 million of inappropriate disposals in the year including share of joint ventures.
recognition of a We considered the date at which the transactions property transaction.
These transactions can include completed based on the timing of the transfer of complexities such as rental top-up risks and rewards of ownership per the acquisition payments, conditionality and deferred ordisposal agreements, and considered the impact completion arrangements or joint ofthese transactions on revenue recognition venture contractual obligations, We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of requiring judgement as to the thetransactions in the financial statements appropriate accounting to be applied.
We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based Refer to page 74 Audit Committee on the terms of the transaction report, page 110 accounting policy and note 9 on pages 118 to 120 nancialdisclosures.
Revenue recognition Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on The results of our testing Revenue for the Group primarily any unusual and complex adjustments to revenue, were satisfactory consists of rental income earned on agreeing the lease incentives for a sample of items to and we found no its investment property portfolio.
Total the underlying leases, with our sample covering both material instances of revenue for the year to 31 March 2016 existing and new leases.
We recalculated the required inappropriate revenue was 79 million 2015: 74 million, adjustment to the annual rent in relation to these items recognition.
The including share of joint ventures.
Within to determine whether the correct amount of revenue Groups accounting revenue, there are certain transactions had been recognised in the year.
policies in relation to which warrant additional audit focus revenue recognition and have an increased inherent risk were found to be of error due to their non-standard in line with IFRS and nature.
Our risk of material misstatement industrypeers.
focused on the accounting for unusual or more complex items including rent free periods and capital incentives, requiring an understanding of specic terms and conditions which vary betweencontracts.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee report, page 110 accounting policy and note 3 on page 114 nancialdisclosures.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc continued Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an the financial statements that makes it probable that the understanding of the Group and its environment, including economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the byone audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor, results of our work.
responsible for the audit of the Company and each of itssubsidiaries and joint ventures.
Our audit work on We determined materiality for the Group to be 17.9 million subsidiariesand joint ventures is carried out to a materiality 2015: 16.0 million, which is below 2% 2015: 2% of which is lower than, and in most cases substantially lower shareholders equity.
In addition to net assets, we consider than, Group materiality as set out above.
Our audit also EPRA Earnings as a critical performance measure for the included testing of the consolidation process and Group and we applied a lower threshold of 2.4 million Group-wide controls.
2015: 2.0 million based on 5% 2015: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances and classes of transaction which Opinion on other matters prescribed by the impact that measure, primarily transactions recorded in the Companies Act 2006 income statement other than fair value movements on investment property, development property and derivatives.
In our opinion: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would The part of the Directors Annual Remuneration Report to reportto the Committee all audit differences in excess of be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 0.4 million 2015: 0.3 million, as well as differences below with the Companies Act 2006: and that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on The information given in the Strategic Report and the qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Report of the Directors for the financial year for which on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing the thenancial statements are prepared is consistent with overall presentation of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has asked us to report on the level ofunadjusted misstatements identied during our audit.
Matters on which we are required to report by We did not identify any unadjusted misstatements for exception reporting matters to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Net asset value measure EPRA earnings measure We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Net assets EPRA Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 898.2m earnings 48.5m Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Materiality The Parent Company financial statements are not in Materiality 17.9m agreement with the accounting records and returns.
2.4m We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Independent Auditors report to the members of LondonMetric Property Plc continued Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors so that we might state to the Companys members those remuneration have not been made or the part of the matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Directors Annual Remuneration Report to be audited is not report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Corporate Governance Statement orforthe opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part ofthe Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts arising from our review.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information theParent Companys circumstances and have been in the Annual Report is: consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made financial statements: or by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired financial information in the Annual Report to identify inthe course of performing our audit: or material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently Otherwise misleading.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, In particular, we are required to consider whether we have the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and implications for our report.
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider Claire Faulkner Senior Statutory Auditor FCA should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 1 June 2016 As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
