INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus The Group changed its presentation currency We instructed our component team in Dubai to from Rand ZAR to Pounds GBP following perform specific procedures on the opening balance the transaction.
Accounting standards require sheet of Al Noor prepared at 15 February 2016 full retrospective application of this presentation directed at cut-off.
We have specifically considered resulting in the retrospective adjustment of all the recoverability of assets and the completeness the comparatives in the financial statements of liabilities including provisions for contractual commitments and for legal and other contingencies to ensure that the opening balance sheet is appropriately stated at fair value.
Recognising that the Group is in discussions with UAE medical insurance funders and other third parties about conforming Al Noors commercial practices with the rest of the Group, we have specifically considered whether provisions for collection of accounts receivable and insurance rejections are sufficient and whether there is any need to record additional liabilities for contingencies that might arise.
We have reviewed the assessment of the comparative accounting policies and practices of Mediclinic and Al Noor prepared by management and we have audited the adjustments made to conform accounting policies.
Following the adoption of a new presentation currency, we obtained managements calculations for the revised presentation of the comparatives and evaluated the assumptions used by reference to the Groups stated accounting policies and the requirements of IAS 21.
We also compared the financial information of each of the components underpinning the consolidation to previously audited financial information and checked the historical exchange rates used to external third party sources.
We tested the restatement calculations to check mathematical accuracy.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material adjustment required to the position reported by the Group.
We were also satisfied with the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the Al Noor acquisition and the related change in presentation currency.
128 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 2.
Accounting for the acquisition of a 29.9% associate interest in Spire We assessed managements classification of the During August 2015, Mediclinic acquired a 29.9% investment as an associate with reference to the interest in Spire Healthcare Group plc Spire Groups percentage voting power in the investee and for consideration of 437m, financed by way of a participation on Spires board of directors, concluding rights issue of Mediclinic shares.
We focused on that the Group does have significant influence over this transaction because of its size, directing our Spire and that equity accounting as an associate is attention in particular at the following areas: therefore appropriate.
The transaction has been treated as an We substantively tested the equity accounted investment in an associate as a result of the results and reserve movements of Spire recorded Groups judgement that it is able to exert by the Group with reference to the audited financial significant influence over the financial and statements of Spire for the year ended operating policy decisions of Spire, meaning that 31 December 2015. it equity accounts for its 29.9% interest in Spires results from August 2015: We have reviewed the share performance of Spire The equity accounted earnings of Spire that are over the period since acquisition with reference to included in the income statement of the Group its reported financial performance.
We met with the represent the four month period from the date Groups nominated director on the Spire board to of acquisition to 31 December 2015 consistent understand whether any indicators of impairment exist with Spires financial year-end which is not based on the underlying performance of the business co-terminous with Mediclinics 31 March 2016 and we reviewed the latest available financial reports year-end.
In other words, the equity accounting of Spire.
We obtained analyst consensus forecasts for Spire lags the Groups reporting period by of the Spire share price over the next twelve months three months as allowed by IAS 28.
Application to understand third party expectations of future of this policy means that the Group needs to performance.
consider whether there were any significant We reviewed the recent press reports of Spire and developments at Spire between 1 January 2016 discussed with the Groups nominated director any and 31 March 2016, the date to which the Group significant or abnormal transactions that occurred in draws its consolidated financial statements, the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016, being which are not otherwise included in the Groups the period not equity accounted by the Group, which Annual Report but which should be disclosed: could have had an effect on the results and carrying and value of the associate at 31 March 2016.
At 31 March 2016, the carrying value of the investment in Spire exceeded the listed market As a result of our work, we concluded that there is value of the investment, which could indicate a no evidence of a significant or prolonged decline in possible impairment.
We focused on this area value that would require impairment of the Groups because judgement is involved in the impairment investment in Spire at 31 March 2016 and we have not assessment.
The carrying value of the associate identified any significant or abnormal transactions that is contingent on future cash flows and there affect the period from 1 January 2016 through is a risk that the investment will be impaired if 31 March 2016.
We have found the judgements these cash flows do not meet expectations.
In made by management to be materially reasonable on addition, significant transactions or events that this basis.
occur between the associates year-end and the Groups reporting date may have an impact on the carrying value of the associate.
129 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 3.
Measurement of revenue adjustments We discussed the status of significant known actual The Groups accounting policies in respect of and potential tariff risk disputes as well as risks relating revenue recognition are not considered to present to the use of provisional base rates with management a significant risk of misstatement due to the simple and with third party tariff specialists.
nature of the underlying transactions and related processes.
However, different business models We obtained evidence to support managements apply in each of the Groups businesses as a result decision to provide and the rationale for the provisions, of different regulatory environments as well as including reading correspondence regarding the different relationship models between the hospitals disputes.
We also considered external information and funders.
We specifically focused on areas sources to support the positions taken.
We considered where management judgement is applied in the the range of possible outcomes and considered measurement of adjustments to reported revenue whether managements provisions sits at the numbers, the most significant of which is the appropriate point within this range.
tariff risk provisions at the Groups Swiss hospitals amounting to 26m 2015: 31m.
These provisions We evaluated the historical accuracy of tariff risk relate to tariff risk associated with billing in provisioning including any significant adjustments to accordance with provisional base rates, where these prior year provisions recorded during the year.
rates have not yet been finally agreed and approved Based on the procedures performed, we did not between providers and funders, and to historical identify any material differences from our testing to tariff disputes at certain of the Groups Swiss the provisions recorded by the Group.
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of the tariff negotiations is uncertain and the positions taken by management are based on judgement and estimates.
130 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 4.
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill The Group has 1 927m of intangible assets, Deploying our valuation specialists, we obtained including trade names of 309m and goodwill of managements impairment calculations and tested 278m that relate to the acquisition of the Swiss the reasonableness of key assumptions, including operations in 2007.
Of the remaining balance, profit forecasts and the selection of growth rates 1 197m relates to goodwill on the Al Noor and discount rates.
We challenged management to transaction.
substantiate its assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to industry benchmarks and The Swiss trade names were classified as indefinite economic forecasts.
life intangible assets at the time of the acquisition We substantively tested the integrity of supporting and the Group carries out annual impairment tests calculations and corroborated certain information with based on value-in-use calculations.
The Al Noor third party sources.
goodwill was also assessed based on updated cash flow forecasts taking into account latest projections We agreed the underlying cash flows to approved and synergies from the acquisition.
No impairments budgets and assessed growth rates and discount were recorded during the current or prior years in rates by comparison to third party information, the respect of these assets.
However, the carrying values Groups cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
Future of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent cash flow assumptions were also challenged through on future cash flows and there is a risk if these comparison to current trading performance against cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations, budget and forecasts, considering the historical or if significant judgements like the discount rates accuracy of budgeting and forecasting or growth rates change, that the assets will be and understanding of the reasons for the growth impaired.
We focused on the impairment of goodwill and We evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to indefinite life intangible assets as these have ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes to indefinite lives and the impairment reviews carried key assumptions on the available headroom, focusing out by the Group contain a number of significant in particular on the Swiss cash generating unit CGU judgements and estimates including growth rates which is more sensitive to change.
We considered and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions the need for additional sensitivity disclosures for might lead to a significant change in the carrying this CGU as required by IAS 36 and we agree with values of the related assets.
managements decision to provide these additional disclosures for the Swiss business in note 6 given that reasonably possible changes in the discount rate and growth rate would give rise to an impairment.
We note that management has also provided this additional disclosure for the four Al Noor CGUs as there is limited headroom given that Al Noor has only recently been acquired.
The purchase price allocation exercise for Al Noor remains provisional at 31 March 2016, including the allocation of goodwill to each of the Al Noor CGUs, and this allocation will be concluded by the Group within the 12 month hindsight period allowed by IFRS 3 to the extent that new information about conditions at the acquisition date become available.
Based on our work performed, we concurred with management that no impairments were required for the Swiss goodwill and intangible assets and for the Al Noor goodwill at 31 March 2016.
We found that the judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions and that the disclosures in respect of the impairment assessments are a fair reflection of the judgements made by the Group.
131 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 5.
Capital expenditure in respect of buildings The Group holds property, equipment and vehicles We obtained analyses of significant capital of 3 199m 2015: 2 985m of which 2 771m expenditure projects concluded or in progress 2015: 2 647m relates to land and buildings.
The during the year and tested significant additions to Group owns most of the hospital properties from supporting documentation.
Based on discussions with which it operates in Southern Africa and Switzerland management, surveyors and project accountants, and as a result incurs significant amounts of capital we assessed the assumptions used in the allocation expenditure annually.
of costs to different components of the buildings by reference to building plans, quantity surveyor reports The Group capitalises the cost of major and contractor invoices.
We confirmed that the Group refurbishment projects and depreciates these applied its capitalisation policies consistently to these costs over a period of 10 to 20 years.
charges on the core elements of buildings are We assessed the useful lives and residual values of usually immaterial as a result of the Groups components of buildings that depreciate over a shorter substantial maintenance programme, giving rise to period of time with reference to the actual writerelatively high residual values expected at the end of offs experienced by the Group and to the scheduled their useful lives, unless circumstances indicate that hospital upgrade programme followed by the Group.
lower residual values or reduced useful economic Based on our work performed, we did not identify any lives are required.
material variation from managements assessment.
We focused on the capitalisation and depreciation We read minutes and management reports and policies of buildings due to the significant amount of compared maintenance expenses in the income capital expenditure incurred each year.
statement to the prior year and budgeted amounts as In South Africa, the carrying value of buildings is possible indicators of inconsistent application of the relatively low compared to their market value as component approach to capitalisation of assets.
We most of the assets were constructed a long time tested capital additions to ensure that maintenance ago in a high inflationary environment.
However, expenditure had not been inappropriately capitalised.
the buildings in Switzerland were revalued to their fair values at the time of the business combination We obtained the Groups analyses for the impairment in 2007 and as a result more closely reflect their assessment of the Swiss properties.
Deploying our own current market value.
Accordingly, the Group valuation specialists, we tested the reasonableness monitors these assets more carefully for potential of key assumptions used by managements third impairment indicators.
Hospitals in the Middle East party real estate experts who performed the are generally leased.
property valuations for the Group.
We challenged the assumptions, including the capitalisation rates and market rentals, by comparing relevant assumptions to industry norms.
As a result of our work, we were satisfied with managements decision not to impair any of the Groups properties during the year ended 31 March 2016 and we have found the judgements to be supported by reasonable assumptions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 16 reporting units which comprise the parent company, the Groups holding company structure and sub-consolidations of the operations in each of the Groups key markets.
The South Africa, Switzerland and Dubai reporting units required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
The parent company is subject to a statutory audit in the UK.
Specific audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at two other reporting units Abu Dhabi, being the legacy Al Noor business, and Spire to give appropriate audit coverage and to focus on specific risks associated with the acquisition of both businesses during the financial period.
None of the reporting units excluded from our Group audit scope individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue or 3% to adjusted profit before tax.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
132 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Recognising that not every business in each of the 16 reporting units which comprise the Groups consolidated results and financial position is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage has been obtained in aggregate by our component teams by reference to business components at which audit work has been undertaken.
In light of this being a first year audit, we visited our component teams in South Africa, Switzerland and Dubai, which included file reviews, attendance at key audit meetings with local management and participation in audit clearance meetings at each reporting unit.
This included review with the component team in Dubai of the audit evidence following completion of its specific audit procedures at Al Noor.
We also had regular dialogue with our component audit teams at each key reporting unit.
Further specific audit procedures over the Group consolidation and review procedures over the Annual Report disclosures were directly led by the Group audit team.
Taken together, reporting units where we performed our audit work accounted for 90% of consolidated revenue, 99% of consolidated profit before tax and 90% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 13 million How we determined it Based on 5% of profit before tax after adjustment for one-off transaction costs incurred relating to the combination between Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
Rationale for benchmark applied Management uses an adjusted measure of earnings in describing the Groups performance defined as underlying as it believes that it reflects the underlying trading performance of the Group by eliminating the volatility inherent in one-off items.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality by removing the one-off impact of costs relating to the Al Noor transaction completed during the year as an adjustment to profit before tax used for our materiality benchmark.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than overall Group audit materiality.
The range of materiality allocated to each significant reporting unit was between 5.6 million and 6.6 million.
The materiality used for the audit of the parent company was 10 million.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 123, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
133 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued to the members of Mediclinic International plc formerly Al Noor Hospitals Group plc OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 123, in accordance with We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 107 to 115, as required by We have no exceptions to report.
provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on pages 24 to 29 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out to draw attention to.
a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and We have nothing material to add or explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report, in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
134 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Mediclinic International plc for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2016 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 May 2016 135 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated Restated Notes m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, equipment and vehicles  Intangible assets Equity accounted investments Other investments and loans Receivables Derivative financial instruments Deferred income tax assets Current assets Inventories Trade and other receivables Current income tax assets Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents  Total assets EQUITY Capital and reserves Share capital Share premium reserve Treasury shares Retained earnings  Other reserves  Attributable to equity holders of the Company  Non-controlling interests Total equity  LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings Deferred income tax liabilities Retirement benefit obligations Provisions Derivative financial instruments Current liabilities Trade and other payables  Borrowings  Provisions Retirement benefit obligations Derivative financial instruments Current income tax liabilities Total liabilities Total equity and liabilities These financial statements and the accompanying notes were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 May 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: D Meintjes CI Tingle Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer 136 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated Notes m m Revenue Cost of sales Administration and other operating expenses Other gains and losses Operating profit Finance income Finance cost Share of profit of equity accounted investments profit before tax Income tax expense profit for the year Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company Non-controlling interests  Earnings per ordinary share attributable to the equity holders of the Company pence Basic Diluted CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP Restated Notes m m profit for the year Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassied to the income statement Currency translation dierences Fair value adjustment cash ow hedges Items that may not be reclassied to the income statement Actuarial gains and losses Other comprehensive income, net of tax  Total comprehensive income for the year Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company Non-controlling interests 137 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 March 2016 GROUP ShareForeign Share Reverse based currency NonShare Capital premium acquisition Treasury payment translation Hedging Retained Sharecontrolling capital redemption reserve reserve shares reserve reserve reserve earnings holders interests Total note note note note note note note note note equity note equity m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 31 March 2014 restated in profit for the year Other comprehensive income loss for the year Total comprehensive income for the year Shares issued Share issue costs Treasury shares purchased Forfeitable Share Plan Share-based payment expense Transactions with non-controlling shareholders Dividends paid Balance at 31 March 2015 restated in profit for the year Other comprehensive income loss for the year Total comprehensive income for the year Shares issued August 2015 Share issue costs August 2015 Reverse acquisition Share subscription February 2016 Reduction of share premium Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts Treasury shares purchased Forfeitable Share Plan Share-based payment expense Transactions with non-controlling shareholders Dividends paid Balance at 31 March 2016 138 139 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
