Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the Members of NMC Health Plc OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion: NMC Health plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED NMC Health plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 40 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Risks of material Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the determination misstatement of whether the Group is acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal.
Accounting for major complex transactions primarily relating to acquisitions.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of eighteen components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further four components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures including consolidation adjustments accounted for 97% of adjusted Profit before tax, 96% of Revenue and 98% of Total assets.
Adjusted Profit before tax excludes one-off costs in respect of acquisitions.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$7.8m which represents 5% of adjusted Profit before tax.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition, including the We relied upon the controls tested over revenue Based on the audit timing of revenue recognition and the recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition.
procedures performed, we determination of whether the Group Where we relied on the controls tested by internal audit are satisfied that revenue is acting in the capacity of an agent we satisfied ourselves about their objectivity, independence recognition is appropriate rather than principal and professional skills.
We discussed the audit plan and and that the Group has audit program with the internal auditors, reviewed their appropriately adhered to their The Group has revenue of testing of controls and re-performed a sample of their revenue recognition policies, US$1,220.8m 2015: US$880.9m.
We also independently tested an additional sample.
including the determination of whether the Group is The Group has a number of revenue We performed substantive audit procedures including acting as agent rather than streams relating to its Healthcare and testing a sample of transactions, analytical review as principal.
Distribution segments including procedures including developments in patient numbers pharmacy sales and sales of goods, per facility and cut-off tests by selecting a sample of The upcoming hospital and clinic revenues, over the transactions either side of year-end to check that revenue implementation of a new counter sales and In Vitro Fertilisation had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
There is a risk of improper For IVF revenues we tested managements estimate revenue recognition IFRS 15, revenue recognition, particularly as to cut off of completed IVF phases.
We also reviewed will allow the company to with regard to cut-off at period end material supplier agreements and accounting for the review existing accounting dates, in the healthcare business, supplier income including fees and discounts.
policies on revenue given the diversity of the Groups recognition and achieve healthcare operations, and in the We obtained independent confirmation letters from key a greater consistency across distribution business.
customers including health insurance providers as well geographies and similar as an additional representative sample.
Reconciling items business lines as immaterial We note a potential risk with respect were traced back to original documentation or corroborated inconsistencies were noted.
to material supplier agreements and to resubmissions made by the company.
accounting for the supplier income including fees and discounts.
We obtained assurance over the recognition of revenue through audit work on accounts receivable specifically by Furthermore, there is a risk that reviewing the rejection rates based on historical experience management may incorrectly and have verified that receivable balances as at year end determine whether the Group is are presented at their recoverable amount.
acting as principal or agent in certain arrangements such as distribution We inspected contractual arrangements to support agreements with key suppliers the recognition of fee income and considered the and revenue sharing agreements appropriateness of the accounting through verification with doctors.
to legal agreements and vouching the amounts recognised to invoices and cash receipts.
There is also a risk that revenue recognition is impacted through We reviewed a sample of new distribution agreements accounts receivable processing entered into during the year and revenue sharing contracts as insurance providers may reject with doctors in newly acquired businesses to verify that the the claims made which requires Groups determination that they are acting in a capacity of management to assess the need a principal rather than an agent is appropriate considering for a provision.
the balance of risk and rewards.
The risk has increased in the current We checked the Groups adherence to their revenue year due to acquisitions which recognition policies and we agreed that these policies are in require alignment to group revenue accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 22 locations, which covered 96% of the risk amount after consolidation eliminations.
86 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Accounting for major We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreements Based upon the procedures complex transactions entered into for the acquisitions which took place in the year we have performed, we and other relevant documentation to understand the terms concur with the Groups The Group recognised and conditions of the agreements.
accounting for all acquisitions goodwill of US$233.9m above our performance 2015: US$345.1m and We assessed the judgements applied in determining whether materiality including Fakih intangible assets of acquisitions in the year represented an acquisition of an asset IVF LLC, Copenhagen Fertility US$25.2m 2015: US$74.8m or a business combination.
This involved assessing whether or Center and Huntington Centro in respect of the acquisitions not the entities and the assets acquired constitute the carrying Medicina Reproductiva S. A made in the current year.
on of a business, i. e. whether there are inputs and processes as at 31 December 2016. applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
The Group made a number We have reviewed the of acquisitions during the year Where transactions met the definition of a business combination business combinations including Fakih IVF LLC UAE, we audited the Groups assessment of the assets and liabilities disclosures in respect of the Copenhagen Fertility Center acquired and the allocation of the purchase consideration to acquisitions which completed Denmark and Huntington these and the resultant goodwill or gain on bargain purchase in 2016 and we believe that Centro Medicina Reproductiva recognised by performing the following procedures: these are appropriate and S. A. Brazil which are included in compliance with the as full audit scope.
The We assessed the appropriateness of the recognition requirements of IFRS 3 contractual arrangements of intangible assets and consideration of their valuation Business combinations.
for such transactions can inputs and have used a valuation specialist for assessing be complex and require the appropriateness of the valuation inputs and the We have also verified that management to apply valuation methodology.
the business combinations, judgement in determining We verified that the consideration transferred, and notably Fakih, have been whether a transaction where relevant contingent consideration, in respect of each recognised in the period in represents an acquisition transaction was appropriately calculated in accordance with which the Group obtained of an asset or a business contractual arrangements.
control of the acquired combination in accordance We assessed managements judgements in respect of entities and where applicable with IFRS 3. what arrangements should be accounted for as part of the regulatory approvals were business combination and those that should be accounted obtained which allows the There is a risk that the for separately from the business combination.
Group to obtain rights for estimates and judgements variable returns from the made in the recognition of We assessed whether the Group is exposed, or has rights, investee and has the ability an acquisition as a business to variable returns from its involvement with the investee to affect those returns through combination may be and has the ability to affect those returns through its power its power over the investee.
inappropriate and the over the investee as at the date upon which the acquisitions valuation of the assets were recognised.
and liabilities acquired may be misstated.
We verified the appropriateness of the consolidation adjustments in respect of accounting for these transactions.
The complexity of the multiple contractual arrangements in We assessed the accounting for the acquisitions to verify that respect of certain acquisitions they were appropriately accounted for.
Also we verified where and related services, and the appropriate, that disclosures in the financial statements are different legal environments in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
in which acquisitions have been undertaken, may lead to inappropriate judgements The Group completed 6 acquisitions out of which 1 is fide minimis.
as to the basis of accounting.
For significant complex transactions in the current year including Fakih IVF LLC, Copenhagen Fertility Center and Huntington Centro Furthermore, there is a risk Medicina Reproductiva S. A, the Group audit team reviewed the that these acquisitions may Share Purchase Agreement, verified consideration payable, be recognised before the audited the opening balance sheet, read the due diligence Group is exposed, or has rights, reports and identified and addressed any divergence in the to variable returns from its accounting principles.
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect The Group audit team also performed audit procedures on the those returns through its purchase price allocation in respect of 3 out of 6 acquisitions power over the investee.
completed in 2016 which covered 90% of the goodwill and intangible assets recognised.
For the remaining goodwill The risk has remained stable and intangible additions the Purchase price allocation in the current year due to is being completed and will be audited in the following year.
acquisitions occurring both last year and in the current year.
In the prior year, our auditors report included the same risks of material misstatement as noted above.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 34 reporting components of the Group, we selected 22 components covering entities within the United Arab Emirates UAE, Denmark, Brazil, Italy and Spain, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 22 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 18 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 4 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures presented excluding consolidation adjustments accounted for 171% 2015: 139% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, 98% 2015: 97% of the Groups Revenue and 163% 2015: 154% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components excluding consolidation adjustments contributed 167% 2015: 139% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, 92% 2015: 85% of the Groups Revenue and 160% 2015: 140% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component excluding consolidation adjustments contributed 4% 2015: 0% of the Groups Adjusted Profit before tax, 6% 2015: 12% of the Groups Revenue and 3% 2015: 14% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Specific scope component testing is primarily focused on the significant risk in relation to revenue recognition however it also included procedures on property and equipment balances.
Of the remaining 12 components, which are primarily located in the UAE, that together represent 3% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, none are individually greater than 2% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The Group audit team also performed audit procedures over consolidation and foreign exchange adjustments, which were net negative to Revenue and adjusted Profit before tax of 2% and 74%, respectively 2015: net negative to Revenue and adjusted Profit before tax of 3% and 39% respectively, and reduced the calculated total overall percentage coverage to 96% 2015: 97% and 97% 2015: 100% respectively.
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
% of Number of adjusted % of % of Total Group audit scope locations PBT Revenue assets Full 18 167% 92% 160% Specific 4 4% 6% 3% Remaining components other procedures 12 3% 4% 2% Consolidation adjustments audited by Group audit team 74% 2% 65% Total coverage 100% 100% 100% CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR During the year the Group acquired six entities out of which Fakih IVF LLC, Copenhagen Fertility Center and Huntington Centro Medicina Reproductiva S. A. were identified as full scope components.
The other three acquired entities were not in scope this year based on their respective size and risk characteristics.
Furthermore, one component which was not in scope in the prior year was a specific scope component this year and another component which was a specific scope component in the prior year was not in scope this year based on their respective size and risk characteristics.
88 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements INTEGRATED TEAM STRUCTURE AND INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK however, since Group management and the majority of the operations reside in the UAE, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and the UAE.
The Group audit team members from the UAE are also members of selected component teams.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 18 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the Group audit team and audit procedures were performed on the remaining 17 by the component audit teams.
For these components, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Given that the Group operates predominantly in the UAE the Senior Statutory Auditor with his UK based audit team members travelled to the UAE for two periods to work in an integrated manner with the EY UAE audit team members.
Members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the audit process.
During the current year end audit process the Senior partner also visited Spain, where the Luarmia S. L group of companies are based.
Since the Senior audit partner rotated on this audit cycle various introductory visits to both UAE and Spain were made during the prior year audit cycle.
Visits in the 2016 audit cycle involved discussing the audit approach with the component teams and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management attending planning and closing meetings, performing site visits to medical facilities, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
The Group audit team also was involved in the audit procedures on significant risk areas, primarily revenue recognition and accounting for major complex transactions.
The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams in the UAE and Spain as appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level by the Group audit team, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We initially determined materiality for the Group to be US$8.7m 2015: US$4.6m, which is 5% of forecast adjusted Profit before tax 2015: 5% of adjusted Profit before tax.
We believe that it is appropriate to use adjusted Profit before tax in order to exclude the effects of non-recurring items.
These related to the costs of US$4.6m in respect of the acquisitions which took place during the year.
We note that management have excluded these one-off items when assessing the performance of the Group, consistent with prior year.
We used a profit based measure for determining materiality as profit is one of the key performance indicators of the business and a focus of users of the financial statements.
The increase in materiality from the prior year predominantly reflects the impact of the newly acquired entities on the Groups profit.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual adjusted profit before tax figure was lower than that which we had used as the basis for determining materiality, we revised our materiality threshold to US$7.8m, which is 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Starting basis Profit before tax US$151.6m Adjustments One-off costs in respect of acquisitions US$4.6m Adjusted Profit before tax US$156.2m Materiality Materiality of US$7.8m 5% of adjusted Profit before tax NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2015: 50% of our planning materiality, namely US$4.4m 2015: US$2.8m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our expectation of potential misstatements, our risk assessment and changes in the organisation, particularly given the acquisitions which took place during the year.
During the course of the audit, we revised our performance materiality threshold to US$3.9m, which is 50% of our revised materiality threshold.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$0.78m to US$2.34m 2015: US$0.46m to US$1.50m.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.44m 2015: US$0.28m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Given the revision of materiality we reported all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.39m.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
90 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Financial Statements MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information We have no Ireland reporting in the annual report is: exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no 2006 reporting obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements exceptions to report.
in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no review the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 83 and exceptions to report.
requirements longer-term viability, set out on pages 83 and 84: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing Ireland reporting or to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust to draw attention to.
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
VICTOR VEGER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2017 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the NMC Health plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91
