Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PageGroup plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: PageGroup plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited PageGroup plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement Cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 24 Related notes 1 to 24 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements misstatement Provision for transfer pricing We performed a full scope audit of six component operations of Audit scope the Group and audit procedures on specific balances for a further five components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 85% of revenue, 80% of gross profit, 90% of profit before tax and 78% of total assets.
We performed other audit procedures over the remaining 27 components.
Materiality Overall Gr oup materiality of 4.9m which represents 5% of profit before tax Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 76 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue recognition for permanent and We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk We concluded that revenue temporary placements area in 11 components, which covered 85% of the revenue balance.
recognised for permanent We performed following procedures in full and specific scope and temporary placements The Group has reported permanent components: is correctly recorded in placement revenues of 476.3million accordance with the Groups 2015: 431.3million and temporary Updated our understanding of the revenue processes at all full revenue recognition criteria placement revenue of 719.8million 2015: scope and specific scope components.
We independently tested and IFRS, and that the 633.7million.
key management controls around recognition and measurement provision for expected of revenue at three of six full scope components and three of For permanent placement revenue, revenue reversals was five specific scope components.
For the other components, we there is a risk around the timing of the reasonably estimated.
increased our substantive sampling procedures as described recognition of revenue as a contract may below.
be agreed with a customer and candidate several months in advance of the start of Selected a sample at all full scope and specific scope components employment.
Consequently, there is a of permanent and temporary placement revenue transactions for risk that: detailed transaction testing to verify that the revenue recognition criteria had been met and to verify that the transaction had actually revenue recognition may occur before occurred and was recorded at the correct value.
We performed revenue recognition criteria have been analytical procedures at all full scope and specific scope met components.
revenue is not recognised in the correct Performed period-end cut off testing at all full scope and specific period scope components focusing on material items to check all revenue the placement is not taken up as recognition criteria for the placements had been met and revenue agreed, which could result in the had been recognised in the correct period.
reversal of previously recorded revenue Compared the level of actual permanent placement revenue For temporary placement revenue there is reversals, which occur as a result of non-completion of contractual a risk that: placements, to the provision recorded against accrued income to revenue may be recognised when determine if the provision was appropriate.
an approved timesheet has not been For all other components which covered 15% of the revenue balance, submitted we performed audit procedures centrally on a country by country revenue is recorded for days worked basis to address the risk of an undetected material error occurring prior to submission of the weekly in these components.
Such procedures included analytical review timesheets of revenue and gross profit, and ratio analysis of key performance indicators including revenue and gross profit per fee earner.
The Refer to the Audit Committee Report processes and group-wide controls for these components are page 50 : Accounting policies page 90 : consistent with the rest of the Group.
and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 91 Provision for transfer pricing With assistance from our international tax specialists: We concluded that managements judgements Charges between components of the we checked whether the model employed by management in relation to the transfer Group are potentially open to challenge by appropriately reflects the country risks: pricing provision are local tax jurisdictions, especially as 75% we sample tested the data input to the model and its arithmetical reasonable.
of the Groups operations are overseas.
integrity: Significant management judgement is using our experience of country transfer pricing risks we involved in determining the appropriate challenged the assumptions and judgements inherent in the model: level of provision to cover any adjustments and to expected tax liabilities that might we compared the approach taken by the Group to other groups.
There is a risk that judgements and estimates applied in determining tax provisions may not be appropriate and supportable.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 50 : Accounting policies page 90 : and Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 95 In the prior year, our auditors report included a risk of material misstatement in relation to the following areas of audit focus.
We have assessed that these no longer represent a significant risk of material misstatement: 1.
Accounting for Page Recruitment System PRS no longer represents a significant risk due to a reduction in the transition and execution risk as the implementation is complete.
This means that the risk of impairment or accelerated depreciation is reduced.
Recognition of deferred tax assets on US tax losses and timing differences is dependent on the level of confidence in US profit projections.
Given the 3-year track record of profitability in the US, we now believe that the risk related to recoverability is lower than in prior years.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 77 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information These 11 reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for: The scope of our audit Tailoring the scope 2016 2015 Revenue Full scope components 62% 60% Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our Specific scope components 23% 27% allocation of performance materiality Total 85% 88% determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, Gross profit Full scope components 57% 53% this enables us to form an opinion on Specific scope components 23% 29% the consolidated financial statements.
Total 80% 82% We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and Profit before tax Full scope components 68% 49% effectiveness of group-wide controls, Specific scope components 22% 24% changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Total 90% 83% Audit results when assessing the level of Total assets Full scope components 57% 56% work to be performed at each entity.
Specific scope components 21% 26% We used gross profit as a measure to Total 78% 81% determine our group audit scope in addition to revenue and profit before The audit scope of these specific scope components may not have included testing of tax as this is a key measure used by all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of management to determine the size of a significant accounts tested for the Group.
component in relation to the Group.
The remaining 27 components together represent: In assessing the risk of material 15% of the Groups revenue: misstatement to the Group financial 20% of the Groups gross profit: statements, and to ensure we had 10% of the Groups profit before tax: and adequate quantitative coverage of 22% of the Groups total assets.
significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected 11 of the 38 None of the remaining 27 components are individually greater than 2% of the Groups reporting components that represent the revenue, 2% of the Groups gross profit, 2% of the Groups profit before tax, and 2% of principal business units within the Group.
For these components, we performed other audit procedures, including analytical review procedures on a country-by-country basis, obtaining an Of the 11 components selected, we understanding of the group wide entity level controls over all components, including the performed a full scope audit of 6 level of CEO, CFO and other group management visits, oversight and review, and the components full scope components, scope of the annual Internal Audit programme and the results of those visits to respond to which comprised the United Kingdom, any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
France, China, Hong Kong, Australia and The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the audit work performed.
These were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 5 components 15% 10% 20% 22% 62% 57% 68% 57% specific scope components, we Profit performed audit procedures on specific 22% Gross 23% before Total assets Revenue accounts within that component that profit tax we considered had the potential for 21% 23% the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the group financial statements either because of the size of Other procedures Full Scope components Specific Scope components these accounts or their risk profile.
The specific scope components comprised Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain Changes from the prior year and Switzerland.
The USA has been designated as full scope component this year, whereas this was designated as specific scope in the prior year.
We have changed the designation to obtain greater quantitative full scope coverage of the Groups key metrics.
Brazil is not identified as full or specific scope component this year as it is not significant based on the Groups financial metrics shown above.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 6 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on a part of one of these components, being the Groups Head Office, directly by the Group audit team.
For the largest full scope component, the United Kingdom, the component audit team included the Group audit senior manager from the Group audit team.
For the remaining 5 full scope components and the 5 specific PageGroup Annual Report 2016 78 scope components, where the work was account or balance level.
It is set at an the directors: and the overall presentation performed by component auditors, we amount to reduce to an appropriately low of the financial statements.
In addition, determined the appropriate level of group level the probability that the aggregate of we read all the financial and non-financial team involvement as described below to uncorrected and undetected misstatements information in the Annual Report and enable us to determine that sufficient audit exceeds materiality.
Accounts to identify material inconsistencies evidence had been obtained as a basis for with the audited financial statements and On the basis of our risk assessments, our opinion on the Group as a whole.
to identify any information that is apparently together with our assessment of the materially incorrect based on, or materially During the current years audit cycle, visits Groups overall control environment, inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired were undertaken by the Group audit partner our judgement was that performance by us in the course of performing the and the Group audit senior manager to materiality was 75% 2015: 50% of our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent the UK and France.
A visit to the Groups planning materiality, namely 3.6million material misstatements or inconsistencies new European shared service centre SSC 2015: 2.25million.
The calculation of we consider the implications for our report.
based in Barcelona, Spain was undertaken performance materiality was increased by the Group audit senior manager.
to 75% in the current year due to our Respective responsibilities of These visits involved discussing the audit low expectation of misstatements for the approach with the component teams and current year.
Misstatements identified in the directors and auditor any issues arising from their work, reviewing prior year were one-off and lower in value As explained more fully in the Directors key audit working papers on risk areas and and number compared to earlier years, and Responsibilities Statement set out on page attending the audit closing meeting with are therefore not expected to recur in the 75, the directors are responsible for the local management.
The purpose of the visit current year.
preparation of the financial statements to the SSC was to obtain an understanding Audit work at components for the purpose and for being satisfied that they give a true of the SSC operations and perform of obtaining audit coverage over significant and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit walkthrough procedures for all significant financial statement accounts is undertaken and express an opinion on the financial processes in relation to the countries now based on a percentage of total performance statements in accordance with applicable supported by the SSC.
The performance materiality set law and International Standards on Auditing team attended 3 regional audit closing for each component is based on the relative UK and Ireland.
Those standards require meetings with regional management and scale and risk of the component to the us to comply with the Auditing Practices the Group CFO, at which all key areas of Group as a whole and our assessment of Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
judgement were discussed and challenged.
the risk of misstatement at that component.
This report is made solely to the companys In the current year, the range of performance The Group audit team interacted regularly members, as a body, in accordance with materiality allocated to components with the component teams where Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act was 0.7million to 1.18million 2015: appropriate during various stages of 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken 0.45million to 1.13million.
the audit, reviewed key working papers so that we might state to the companys and were responsible for the scope and members those matters we are required Reporting threshold direction of the audit process.
This, together to state to them in an auditors report and An amount below which identified with the additional procedures performed at for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent misstatements are considered as being Group level, gave us appropriate evidence permitted by law, we do not accept or clearly trivial.
for our opinion on the Group financial assume responsibility to anyone other than We agreed with the Audit Committee that statements.
the company and the companys members we would report to them all uncorrected as a body, for our audit work, for this report, audit differences in excess of 0.24million or for the opinions we have formed.
Our application of materiality 2015: 0.23million, which is set at 5% of We apply the concept of materiality planning materiality, as well as differences Opinion on other matters in planning and performing the audit, below that threshold that, in our view, in evaluating the effect of identified prescribed by the Companies warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
misstatements on the audit and in forming Act 2006 We evaluate any uncorrected our audit opinion.
misstatements against both the quantitative In our opinion: measures of materiality discussed above Materiality the part of the Directors Remuneration and in light of other relevant qualitative The magnitude of an omission or Report to be audited has been considerations in forming our opinion.
misstatement that, individually or in the properly prepared in accordance with aggregate, could reasonably be expected the Companies to influence the economic decisions of the Scope of the audit of the financial Act 2006: and users of the financial statements.
Materiality based on the work undertaken in the statements provides a basis for determining the nature course of the audit: An audit involves obtaining evidence about and extent of our audit procedures.
the information given in the Strategic the amounts and disclosures in the financial We determined materiality for the Group Report and the Directors Report statements sufficient to give reasonable to be 4.9million 2015: 4.5million, for the financial year for which the assurance that the financial statements are which is 5% of profit before tax 2015: 5% financial statements are prepared free from material misstatement, whether profit before tax.
We believe that profit is consistent with the financial caused by fraud or error.
This includes an before tax is the principal consideration statements: assessment of: whether the accounting for stakeholders in assessing the financial policies are appropriate to the Groups the Strategic Report and the performance of the Group.
and the Parent companys circumstances Directors Report have been and have been consistently applied and prepared in accordance with Performance materiality adequately disclosed: the reasonableness applicable legal requirements.
The application of materiality at the individual of significant accounting estimates made by PageGroup Annual Report 2016 79 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial We have no exceptions information in the annual report is: to report.
Ireland reporting materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment We have no exceptions Companies Act obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the to report.
2006 reporting Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We are required to review: We have no exceptions Listing to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 30, and longerRules review term viability, set out on page 30: and requirements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Statement on the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity ISAs UK and We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add We have nothing material or to draw attention to in relation to: to add or to draw Ireland reporting the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust attention to.
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2017 Notes: 1.
The m aintenance and integrity of the PageGroup plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom gover ning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
