INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SHAFTESBURY PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH In our opinion: Risks of material The valuation of investment property including Shaftesbury PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial misstatement properties within the Longmartin Joint Venture statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of Revenue recognition including the timing of the Groups profit for the year then ended: revenue recognition, and the treatment of rents and incentives The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Audit scope The Group operates in Londons West End and adopted by the European Union: consists of a single reportable segment made The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in up of five villages across ten statutory entities.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in All of the Groups companies were included in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the scope of the audit.
The Group audit team performed direct testing of the Longmartin The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Joint Venture balances which are included in requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group the Group Financial Statements.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and Company WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED audit opinion, including undertaking all of the Shaftesbury PLCs financial statements comprise: audit work on the risks of material misstatement identified above.
GROUP COMPANY Materiality Overall Group materiality: 33m which 3 3 Balance sheet as at 30 September 2016 represents 1% of total assets.
3 Statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Specific Group materiality: 3.9m which represents 5% of operating profit before 3 3 Cash flow statement for the year then ended investment property valuation movements and Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended 3 3 net finance costs.
3 3 Related notes to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISK OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The valuation of investment property Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment property included: We have audited the inputs, assumptions and methodology We understood and assessed the design and implementation of the Groups 3,111.6m plus 228m being the Groups share used by the external valuers.
controls over data used in the valuation of the investment property portfolio and in the Longmartin joint venture We conclude that the inputs managements review of the valuations.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page and methodology applied We evaluated the competence of the external valuers which included consideration 90 : Accounting policies page 126 : and Note are reasonable and that the of their qualifications and expertise, as well as their independence.
10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements external valuations are an pages 131-133 We performed testing over the inputs to the valuations.
For a sample of properties appropriate assessment of we tested the contracted rent and key lease terms by agreeing this back to lease The valuation of investment property the fair value of investment agreements.
properties at 30 September including properties held in the joint venture requires significant judgement 2016. and estimates by management and the Our Chartered Surveyors Fair value of investment properties external valuers.
Any input inaccuracies or concluded that the sample tested by audit team Chartered 16% unreasonable bases used in these judgements Surveyors of valuations they tested are such as in respect of estimated rental value within a reasonable range.
Fair value of investment properties and yield profile applied could result in a subject to analytical procedures We conclude that material misstatement of the statement of management provided an comprehensive income and balance sheet.
appropriate level of review 84% There is also a risk that management may and challenge over the unduly influence the significant judgements valuations but we did not and estimates in respect of property valuations identify evidence of undue in order to achieve property valuation and management influence.
other performance targets to meet market expectations or bonus targets.
The Group audit team includes Chartered Surveyors who tested a sample of properties.
They challenged the valuation approach and assumptions.
The sample size they tested accounted for 84% of the fair value of investment properties including investment properties held in the Longmartin joint venture.
Our Chartered Surveyors compared the equivalent yields applied to each property to an expected range of yields taking into account market data and asset specific considerations.
They also considered whether the other assumptions applied by the external valuers, such as the estimated rental values, tenant incentives and development costs to complete were supported by available data such as recent lettings and occupancy levels.
Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the external valuers to discuss the findings from our audit work described above and to seek further explanations as required.
We also discussed the impact of current market conditions on the property valuations.
In respect of the properties not in the sample tested by our Chartered Surveyors 16% of the fair value, we performed detailed analytical procedures on a propertyby-property basis.
This involved forming an expectation of the fair value of each property in the portfolio by reference to relevant external market data relating to capital growth rates.
We investigated further the valuations of those properties which were not in line with our initial expectations which included further discussions with management and the external valuers and, where appropriate, involvement of our Chartered Surveyors.
114 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We made enquiries of the external valuers to confirm that they had not been subject to undue influence from management.
We utilised our detailed analytical procedures and work of the Chartered Surveyors described above in order to assess for evidence of undue management influence.
We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties focusing primarily on development properties which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these refurbishments developments.
For development appraisals, we vouched the costs incurred to date, and agreed the cost to complete estimates to approved budgets and contractual arrangements.
We met with project managers for the two properties which were material and under significant refurbishment or development during the year and assessed project costs, progress of development and leasing status and considered the reasonableness of forecast costs to complete included in the valuations as well as identified contingencies, exposures and remaining risks.
We corroborated the information provided by the project managers through valuation review, site visits and cost analysis.
We also obtained the development feasibilities and compared the development spend against budget.
Revenue recognition, including the Our audit procedures around revenue recognition included: We audited the timing of timing of revenue recognition, and the revenue recognition, treatment We tested controls over revenue recognition and the treatment of rents of rents and incentives, treatment of rents and incentives which have been designed by the Group to prevent and detect fraud and and assessed the risk of 98.4m of rents receivable errors in revenue recognition.
Based Refer to the Audit Committee Report We also performed controls testing on the billings process.
upon the audit procedures page 91 : Accounting policies page 125 : We performed detailed testing for a sample of revenue transactions by performed, we concluded that and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial agreeing them back to lease agreements.
revenue has been recognised Statements page 127 on an appropriate basis in the For a sample of leases, we tested that the lease income, including the Market expectations and profit year.
treatment of lease incentives, is on a straight-line basis, and in accordance based targets may place pressure with SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives.
on management to distort revenue We performed substantive analytical procedures and found that the recognition.
This may result in revenue recognised by the Group and each of the operating companies overstatement or deferral of revenues to was materially consistent with our expectations developed from rents in assist in meeting current or future targets the tenancy schedules.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied In order to distort rental income, with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
management could manipulate the deferred revenue balance or the manually We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk calculated IFRS rent adjustment for lease of management override of controls including journal entry testing, which incentives.
included particular focus on journal entries which impact deferred revenue and lease incentives.
GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: BASIS MATERIALITY PERFORMANCE AUDIT MATERIALITY DIFFERENCES Overall 1% of total assets 33.0m 17.0m 1.7m Specific 5% of operating profit before 3.9m 2.0m 0.2m investment property valuation Applicable for account balances not related to investment movements and net finance costs properties, loans & borrowings and derivatives Performance materiality Materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds decisions of the users of the financial statements.
for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of As this is an initial audit for us, on the basis of our risk assessments, together uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our financial statements as a whole.
We determined that total assets would be judgement is that overall performance materiality and specific performance the most appropriate basis for determining overall materiality given that key materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or users of the Groups financial statements are primarily focused on the balance for the Group should be 50% of the respective materiality.
We have valuation of the Groups assets: primarily the investment property portfolio.
set performance materiality at this percentage as this is our first year as This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk auditor.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to confirm that total assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality for misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit the financial statements as a whole.
For planning purposes this was initially based on the total assets Reporting threshold as at 30 September 2015.
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being We have determined that for account balances not related to investment clearly trivial.
properties either wholly owned or within the Joint Venture, loans & We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee borrowings and derivatives, a misstatement of less than materiality for the all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.7m, as well as uncorrected financial statements as a whole could influence the economic decisions of audit differences in excess of 0.2m that relate to our specific testing of the users.
We have determined that materiality for these areas should be based other account balances not related to investment properties, loans & on operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net borrowings and derivatives.
These are set at 5% of their respective planning finance costs.
We believe that it is appropriate to use a profit based measure materiality.
We also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, as profit is also a focus of users of the financial statements.
in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative actual value of total assets increased from that which we had used as the measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant initial basis for determining overall materiality primarily due to the increase in qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
property valuations from the annual revaluation, we increased our materiality threshold to 33.0m, as noted in the table above, which represents 1.0% of total assets of 3.3bn as at 30 September 2016.
In their prior year audit PwC adopted an overall materiality of 30.8m based on 1% of total assets.
They also applied a specific materiality of 3.4m based on 5% of profit before tax before net finance costs and investment property movements.
116 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in ISAs UK We are required to report to you if, in our We have no the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the and Ireland opinion, financial and non-financial information exceptions financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by reporting in the annual report is: to report.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Materially inconsistent with the information policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances in the audited financial statements: or and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: Apparently materially incorrect based on, and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify of the Group acquired in the course of material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify performing our audit: or any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Otherwise misleading.
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing In particular, we are required to report whether the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or we have identified any inconsistencies between inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR statement that they consider the annual report As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced page 112, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial and understandable and provides the information statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in performance, business model and strategy: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and whether the annual report appropriately and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing addresses those matters that we communicated Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
to the audit committee that we consider should This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance have been disclosed.
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has Companies We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those Act 2006 exceptions matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Adequate accounting records have not been reporting to report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or kept by the Company, or returns adequate assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys for our audit have not been received from members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we branches not visited by us: or have formed.
The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 to be audited are not in agreement with the In our opinion: accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been specified by law are not made: or properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: We have not received all the information and The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report explanations we require for our audit.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 82 to 86 with respect to internal control and risk management Listing Rules We are required to review: We have no systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital review exceptions The directors statement in relation to going structures is consistent with the financial statements.
concern, set out on page 124, and longerterm viability, set out on page 71: and The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY ISAs UK We are required to give a statement as to We have and Ireland whether we have anything material to add or nothing reporting to draw attention to in relation to: material to add or T he directors confirmation in the annual to draw report that they have carried out a robust attention assessment of the principal risks facing the to.
entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and T he directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Eamonn McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 28 November 2016 118 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 120 BALANCE SHEETS 121 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 122 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 123 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 124 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 119
