Financial information Independent auditors report to themembers of SVG Capital plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 9 December 2016 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the period then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited SVG Capital plcs financial statements comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period ended 9 December 2016 ended 9 December 2016 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the period ended Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the period ended 9 December 2016 9December 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 9 December 2016 Company Balance Sheet as at 9 December 2016 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the period ended Company Cash Flow Statement for the period ended 9December 2016 9December2016 Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on liquidation basis as disclosed innote 1.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material Incorrect accounting for the asset transfer transaction with HarbourVest Bidco HVB misstatement Incorrect implementation of the liquidation basis of preparation of the financial statements Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of SVG Capital plc and each of its subsidiaries.
Materiality Group materiality of 11.3 million which represents 1% of total equity as at 9 December 2016 2016:10.5million.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 31 Financial information Independent review report to SVG Capital plc continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
What we concluded to the Area of audit focus Our response AuditCommittee Accounting for the asset transfer We obtained and inspected the following to ensure Based on the work transaction with HarbourVest Bidco consistent with recorded accounting: performed we are HVB satisfied that the asset Terms of the agreement.
The Company signed an asset transfer transfer transaction was deed the agreement, later approved by Initial purchase price as agreed between the Company accounted for correctly, shareholders, for the sale of 100% of its andthe buyer, HVB.
and that the receivables investment portfolio excluding one direct and investments Underlying documents for the adjustments made in the investment to HVB.
As at 9 December balances were received initial purchase price.
2016, 523 million was presented as in cash subsequent to receivables, for investments where sale Pre-closing notice with details of the adjusted period-end.
was unconditional, and 276 million was purchase price.
presented as investments in the Statement We checked the split between receivable and investment of Financial Position.
The risks associated with this transaction We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments are as follows: calls, distributions, foreign exchange etc.
applied to the Incorrect measurement of receivable initial purchase price.
and investment balances at period-end.
We vouched cash receipts of the receivables balance Irrecoverability of debtor balances.
of 523 million as well as of the investments valued at 276 million at period-end to subsequent Incorrect cut-off between debtors and bank statements.
investments, i. e. sales recognised before the significant risks and rewards of We verified from the Agreement that HVB will take ownership have been transferred to responsibility of the outstanding fund commitments as the buyer.
part of the asset transfer transaction.
Implementation of the liquidation basis We inspected correspondence with proposed buyers Based on the work ofpreparation for the direct investment and corroborated with performed we are Following the completion of the asset managements assessment of its recoverability.
satisfied that the transfer transaction with HVB, SVG liquidation basis of We obtained from management and tested the list of Capital plc and its subsidiaries will be put preparation had been expenses directly related to the liquidation process.
Therefore the financial implemented properly statements as at 9 December 2016 were We obtained managements analysis of forecast income in preparing the Annual prepared under the liquidation basis.
and expenses throughout the period until liquidation.
Report as of and for the period ended There is a risk that all liquidation expenses We reviewed the appropriateness of the estimates for the 9 December 2016. and liabilities may not be accrued, costs of winding up the Company, and agreed to invoices or that assets or liabilities may be and agreements.
We obtained notices and letters supporting the accruals made for bonuses, redundancy costs, and termination costs until liquidation.
We agreed the criteria for the recognition of contingent liabilities and searched for other such liabilities from review of minutes and agreements.
We reviewed the financial statements for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of items in accordance with the liquidation basis of preparation.
We agreed amounts recognised to subsequent cash payments and receipts from bank statements.
32 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Financial information The scope of our audit Scope of the audit of the financial statements The Group operates from a single office and has common financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and systems, processes and controls covering all of its operations.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The Parent Company accounts for 98% of the Groups revenue, assurance that the financial statements are free from material operating profit, and total assets.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate The audit of all the companies within the Group is undertaken by to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and one audit team.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Our application of materiality directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on audited financial statements and to identify any information that is the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Materiality the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence our report.
the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor of our audit procedures.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We determined planning materiality for the Group to be Responsibilities set out on page 20, the directors are responsible for 11.3 million 2015: 10.5 million, which is 1% of total equity the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied as at 9 December 2016.
We derived our materiality calculation that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and from a proportion of total equity as we consider that to be the express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with most important financial metric on which shareholders judge the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and performance of the Group.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Performance materiality This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, The application of materiality at the individual account or balance in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected state to the Companys members those matters we are required misstatements exceeds materiality.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for or for the opinions we have formed.
misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should again be 75% of planning materiality, being 8.4 million Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 2016: 7.9 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates Companies Act 2006 alower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Reporting threshold been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act An amount below which identified misstatements are considered 2006: and as being clearly trivial.
based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors audit differences in excess of 0.6 million 2016: 0.5 million Report for the financial year for which the financial statements which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 33 Financial information Independent review report to SVG Capital plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception What we concluded to the Area of audit focus Our response AuditCommittee ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and We have no exceptions reporting non-financial information in the annual report is: to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financialstatements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course ofperformingour audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no exceptions reporting environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no to report.
material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions requirements to report.
the directors statement in relation to going concern set out on page16, and longer-term viability, set out on page 16: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
34 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 SVG Capital plc Interim Report 2016 Financial information Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity oftheEntity What we concluded to the Area of audit focus Our response AuditCommittee ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything The directors intend to reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: put the Company into liquidation in the next the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have 12 months hence, the carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the financial statements entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future have been prepared performance, solvency or liquidity: on a liquidation basis.
the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and Any matters noted explain how they are being managed or mitigated: during the course of our audit procedures the directors statement in the financial statements about whether had been raised to they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of the management accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material and those charged uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period with governance.
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Ashley Coups Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 2 February 2017 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 45 weeks to 9 December 2016 35
