Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tritax Big Box REIT plc Opinion on financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and International Standards accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to IFRSs adopted by the European Union: comply with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Standards: and in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the financial statements have been prepared in accordance state to the Companys members those matters we are required with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or IAS Regulation.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Overview report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 20 million which represents 1% of total assets.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and Audit scope The whole Group was subject to a full audit.
performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality is assessed We have obtained an understanding of the controls on both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
With respect to of the Group which assisted us in identifying disclosure and presentational matters, amounts in excess of the and assessing risks of material misstatement quantitative thresholds below may not be adjusted if their effect due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in is not considered to be material on a qualitative basis.
determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Materiality 20 million Areas of risk Valuation of the investment property portfolio Performance materiality 15 million and in particular property in the course of Specific materiality 3.0 million construction forward funded assets.
Reporting threshold 0.4 million What we have audited Materiality We have audited the financial statements of Tritax Big Box REIT The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016 which or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence comprise the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
the Group Statement of Financial Position and parent company Balance Sheet, the Group and parent company Statements of We determined materiality for the Group financial statements Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the as a whole to be 20 million 2015: 10 million, which was set related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been at 1% of Group total assets 2015: 0.8%.
This provides a basis applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is for determining the nature and extent of our risk assessment applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further reporting framework that has been applied in preparing the audit procedures.
parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
96 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 We determined that total assets would be the most appropriate An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts basis for determining overall materiality as we consider it to be and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give one of the principal considerations for members of the Company reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: We determined that for other account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures not related to investment whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the properties a misstatement of less than materiality for the Groups and parent companys circumstances and have been financial statements as a whole could influence the economic consistently applied and adequately disclosed: decisions of users.
We determined that materiality for these areas should be 3.0 million 2015: 1.5 million, which was set the reasonableness of significant estimates made by the at 5.8% 2015: 5.1% of EPRA adjusted earnings.
EPRA adjusted Directors: and earnings excludes the impact of the net surplus on revaluation of investment properties and interest rate derivatives.
the overall presentation in the financial statements.
Performance materiality In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information The application of materiality at the individual account or balance in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the audited financial statements and to identify any information the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially misstatements exceeds materiality.
inconsistent with, the knowledge we acquired in the course of performing our audit.
If we become aware of any apparent On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our implications for our report.
judgement was that overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% 2015: 75% of materiality, namely Tailoring the scope of our audit and our areas of focus 15 million 2015: 7.5 million.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatements in the financial statements.
Reporting threshold In particular we looked at where the Directors make subjective An amount below which identified misstatements are considered judgements.
We also addressed the risk of management as being clearly trivial.
override of internal controls, including assessing whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report material misstatement due to fraud.
to the Committee all individual audit differences in excess of 400,000 2015: 100,000 as well as differences below this The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom and operates threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative through one segment, investment property.
team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and parent company audit opinions, including undertaking all of the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the audit work on the key risks of material misstatement.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement and response to that risk An overview of the scope of an audit of the financial The table overleaf shows the risks we identified that had the statements greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation We conducted our audit in accordance with International of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
engagement team, together with our audit response to the risks.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
97 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT RISK AREA HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE RISK Valuation of investment property portfolio, including We obtained an understanding of the approach to the properties under construction forwarded funded valuation of both investment properties and properties in assets the course of construction.
Refer to Audit Committee Report, significant estimates and judgements : investment property We met with the Groups independent valuer, who valued all of the Groups investment properties, to understand The valuation of investment property requires significant the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing these judgement and estimates by management and the properties, the market evidence supporting the valuation independent valuer and is therefore considered a assumptions and the valuation movements in the year.
significant risk due to the subjective nature of certain assumptions inherent in each valuation.
We used our knowledge and experience to evaluate and challenge the valuation assumptions, methodologies and The Groups investment property portfolio includes: the unobservable inputs used.
Standing investments: these are existing properties We agreed the accuracy of the key observable valuation that are currently let.
They are valued using the income inputs supplied to and used by the independent valuer and capitalisation method.
Properties under construction: these are properties We assessed the competency, independence and being built under forward funded agreements with objectivity of the independent valuer.
developers and which have agreed agreements for lease with tenants.
Such assets have a different risk and For properties under construction we assessed project investment profile to the standing investments.
They costs and progress of development and verified the are valued using the residual method ie by estimating forecast costs to complete included in the valuations the fair value of the completed project using the through cost analysis.
income capitalisation method less estimated costs to completion and an appropriate developers margin.
For such forward funded assets we also reviewed the accounting treatment of licence fees receivable from the Any input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in developer during the construction phase as well as the the valuation judgements such as in respect of estimated treatment of any lease incentives with the tenant which rental value and yield profile applied could result in a has signed an agreement for lease.
material misstatement of the income statement and balance sheet.
There is also a risk that management may influence the significant judgements and estimates in respect of property valuations in order to achieve performance targets to meet market expectations.
Additionally, properties under construction may include licence fees receivable from the developer during the construction phase and lease incentives to the pre-let tenant.
Accounting for such assets is typically more complex than for standing investments.
Audit Committee Report p80-84 Audit Committee Report significant estimates and judgements p83 98 Audit Committee Report investment property p83 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Companies Act 2006 ISAs UK and Ireland reporting In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the non-financial information in the Annual Report is: Companies Act 2006. materially inconsistent with the information in the audited In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of financial statements: or the audit: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the Report for the financial year for which the financial statements course of performing our audit: or are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and is otherwise misleading.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirement.
In particular, we are required to consider: whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement on page 63, in accordance with provision C1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: and whether the section of the Annual Report on pages 80-84, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no exceptions to report.
99 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 GOVERNANCE: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Matters on which we are required to report by exception continued Companies Act 2006 reporting Listing rules review requirements We are required to report to you whether we have identified any We are required to review: material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
the Directors statements, set out on page 60, in relation to going concern and longer term viability : and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements.
the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Companies Act 2006 reporting Conduct Authority.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report from our review.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p52-57 100 Viability Statement p60 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Statement regarding the Directors assessment of principal risks, going concern and longer term viability of the Group ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 54-59 of the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement on page 60 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the Directors explanation on page 60 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Richard Levy senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London United Kingdom 7 March 2017 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties p52-57 101 Directors Responsibilities Statement p95 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 MISSION CRITICAL BIG BOXES Big Boxes are essential to fulfilling e-commerce sales and have a crucial role to play in supporting retailers through peak periods.
On Black Friday 2016 there were 500,000 visits to the Argoss website in the first hour of online tradingbetween midnight and 1pm up 50% on last year.
Source: The Guardian Friday 25 November 2016 102
