100 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 100 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY Opinion on financial statements of The Unite Group plc Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2016 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in shareholders equity, the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern and the directors assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within the Regulatory disclosures section of the Governance report to the financial statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the strategic report on page 25.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation on page 99 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 26 to 29 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in section 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation on page 99 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Last year our report included a risk around the recognition of deferred tax assets, which is not included in our report this year.
We have identified a new risk relating to the impact of the Group becoming a REIT on 1 January 2017 as the REIT transition has had a significant impact on the measurement and presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The description of risks below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 66.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Strategic report Corporate governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 101 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 101 Risk: investment and development property valuation 2,276.6 million The Groups principal assets are investment properties and investment properties under development that are either owned on balance sheet or through the investments that the Group holds in LSAV and USAF.
The investment properties are carried at fair value based on an appraisal by the Groups independent external valuers who carry out the valuations at six-monthly intervals for the Group in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book, taking into account transactional evidence during the year.
Management conduct a detailed exercise in the assessment of the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
The valuation of these properties is underpinned by a number of judgements and assumptions, such as property yields, rental growth, occupancy and property management costs.
A small change in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the valuation of properties and, with respect to the valuation of the USAF properties, could also have a significant impact on a key input to the calculation of the performance fee recognised for the year ended 31 December 2016 as this is based on the net asset value of the fund.
With regards to the investment properties under development, additional judgement is required to forecast discounted cash flows with a deduction for construction costs to complete.
Refer to Section 3.1: Wholly owned property assets How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We performed testing on the property valuations and critically assessed the judgements and estimates that had been made.
This work included: Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: Understanding and challenging the assumptions taken in relation to key drivers such as rental income and growth, occupancy, yields and costs with reference to the trends at the end of the year and the following years budget and Groups strategic plan: Meeting with the Groups valuers to understand the assumptions being taken and consistency of the judgements with prior year: Working with our valuation specialists within our Deloitte Real Estate team to validate the assumptions used against market data: Assessing the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with the development team and assessing the forecast cost to complete against budget and substantive testing of costs incurred to date: and Use of data analytic tools to determine whether there were any anomalies in the valuation spreadsheet data sent to the valuers.
Key observations We are satisfied with the approach and methodology adopted in valuing the property portfolio and consider the valuations to be suitable for inclusion in the financial statements at 31 December 2016.
Risk: accounting for joint ventures 692.9 million A significant proportion of the Groups assets are held within USAF and LSAV which are jointly owned entities that are accounted for as joint ventures.
At 31 December 2016 Unite had a 23% ownership in USAF and 50% ownership in LSAV, and acts as manager of both joint venture vehicles.
Due to the complexity of the contractual arrangements, and the Groups role as manager of the joint venture vehicles, the assessment of control involves judgements around a number of significant factors, particularly with regards to USAF given that it is a multi-investor fund and the Unite ownership stake is subject to change.
In accordance with IFRS 10, there is a need to assess control with regards to the ability to direct relevant activities, have exposure to variable returns and the ability to use power to affect returns at each reporting period.
Refer to Section 3.4: Investments in joint ventures 102 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 102 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our audit procedures on this area focussed on assessing the activities of the businesses, understanding the contractual agreements in place and identifying the methodology applied by management in reaching their business decisions in order to consider the appropriateness of the classification of these arrangements as joint ventures in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 10.
With regards to both USAF and LSAV, we have: Understood and documented the underlying business process and evaluated the design, determined implementation and tested operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: critically assessed the key activities and how they impact the returns to the Group from the funds and challenged Managements own consideration of these factors in their application of IFRS 10: and assessed the Groups monitoring of its role and the three key factors relating to control and its exercise in accordance with the judgement required under IFRS 10.
Given the particular focus on USAF, we have: assessed the role of the USAF Advisory Committee which represents the interests of all unitholders on an on-going basis, including obtaining evidence as to how it has carried out its duties and evaluated where decisions were taken that did not involve the Committee as to indications of the ability of the Group to exercise control: and critically evaluated the impact of the percentage ownership on a regular basis.
Key observations There has been no change to the structure and underlying assumptions on determination of control of USAF and LSAV in the period and the role played by Unite as investor and asset development manager.
We consider the treatment as joint ventures to be appropriate.
Risk: REIT transition The Group possesses significant potential deferred tax liabilities in relation to future gains on investment properties and unit trusts and also significant potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses.
The recognition of both liabilities and assets depend on an assessment of forecast taxable profits, forecasts themselves primarily dependent on the conversion to REIT status on 1 January 2017.
The recognition of both deferred tax assets and liabilities in this period therefore involves judgements regarding their appropriate treatment on REIT conversion and assessment of the certainty of conversion and ongoing maintenance of REIT status.
Refer to Section 2.5: Tax How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Our audit procedures included: Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: working closely with our tax audit specialist team, including newly introduced REIT specialists, to ensure that the key judgements relating to REIT transition are understood: considering the clarity and presentation of the Groups disclosures of its tax balances and effective tax rate reconciliation: and testing the Groups current and forecast compliance with the REIT regime rules.
Key observations We are satisfied with Managements assessment of the impact of REIT conversion on the deferred tax position of the Group and agree with the resulting credit of 39.8m on the derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised on revaluation of investment properties, accelerated capital allowances and property business tax losses.
We consider the presentation of the disclosures of the tax balances and effective tax rate reconciliation to be appropriate.
Strategic report Corporate governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 103 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 103 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the group to be 14.8 million 2015: 9.3 million, which is 1.0% of net assets 2015: 1% of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we consider the EPRA earnings measure to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we have applied a lower threshold of 3.0 million 2015: 3.1 million based on 5% of EPRA earnings 2015: 5% of EPRA earnings for testing of revenue, cost of sales, operating expenses, loan interest and similar charges, finance income, share of joint venture profit and taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 153,000 2015: 186,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained at head office.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We audit all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level, which in many cases is substantially lower than Group materiality.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
104 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 104 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Judith Tacon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 22 February 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 105 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS These financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Board of Directors also present the Groups performance on the basis recommended for real estate companies by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
The reconciliation between IFRS performance measures and EPRA performance measures can be found in Section 2.2 b for EPRA earnings and 2.3 c for EPRA net asset value NAV.
The adjustments to the IFRS results are intended to help users in the comparability of these results across other listed real estate companies in Europe and reflect how the directors monitor the business.
We have grouped the notes to the financial statements under six main headings: Results for the year, including segmental information, EPRA earnings and EPRA NAV Asset management Funding Working capital Key management and employee benefits Company subsidiaries and joint ventures Each section sets out the relevant accounting policies applied in these financial statements together with the key judgements and estimates used.
Primary statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Company statement of changes in shareholders equity Statements of cash flows Section 1: Basis of preparation Section 2: Results for the year 2.1 Segmental information 2.2 Earnings 2.3 Net assets 2.4 Revenue and costs 2.5 Tax 2.6 Audit fees Section 3: Asset management 3.1 Wholly owned property assets 3.2 Inventories 3.3 Other non-current assets 3.4 Investments in joint ventures 3.5 Investments in subsidiaries Section 4: Funding 4.1 Borrowings 4.2 Interest rate swaps 4.3 Net financing costs 4.4 Gearing 4.5 Financial risk factors 4.6 Operating leases 4.7 Capital management 4.8 Equity 4.9 Dividends Section 5: Working capital 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 5.2 Trade and other receivables 5.3 Credit risk 5.4 Trade and other payables 5.5 Transactions with other group companies Section 6: Key management and employee benefits 6.1 Staff numbers and costs 6.2 Key management personnel 6.3 Share based compensation Section 7: Events after the balance sheet date Section 8: Company subsidiaries and joint ventures
