Overview Independent Auditors Report to the Strategic Report Members of Workspace Group PLC Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Report on the group financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs group financial Overall Group materiality: statements the financial statements : 18.8million which represents 1% give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups of total assets.
Materiality affairs as at 31 March 2016 and of its profit and cash Specific materiality of 5.5 million flows for the year then ended: used for certain Consolidated have been properly prepared in accordance with income statement line items, being International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs a percentage of profit before tax, Audit as adopted by the European Union: and net finance costs and investment scope have been prepared in accordance with the property valuation movements.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 All work in support of the Group of the IAS Regulation.
audit opinion is performed by the Areas Group audit team.
of focus What we have audited Valuation of investment properties The financial statements, included within the Annual due to materiality and the level of Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: judgement involved.
the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: Accounting treatment in relation to the Consolidated income statement for the year then the BlackRock Workspace ended: Property Trust joint venture due to the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year the application of IFRS 11 and the then ended: recognition of the performance fee the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the in the current year.
year then ended: and Compliance with the REIT regime the notes to the financial statements, which include a due to the impact of the tax summary of significant accounting policies and other exempt status on the Groups explanatory information.
business and the financial statements.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to The scope of our audit and our areas of focus the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from We conducted our audit in accordance with International the financial statements and are identied as audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as We designed our audit by determining materiality and adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
"125""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment properties In order to assess the accuracy of the valuation of the property portfolio as at 31 March 2016 and to identify those Refer to page 94 Audit Committee Report, pages 145 to properties which needed further investigation, we undertook 147 Notes to the financial statements note 10, page 135 an analysis of each property valuation and compared the Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates, yield adopted and movement in capital value over the year and page 136 Significant accounting policies."
We evaluated the We focused on this area due to the magnitude of the underlying valuation methodology and assumptions used by investment property balance and because the assumptions the valuer and met with the Groups Development Director used in determining the fair value of the investment to understand property specific factors.
properties involve significant judgements and estimates.
The external valuer used by the Group is CB Richard Ellis The Groups investment properties were valued at CBRE.
We assessed the competence, capabilities and 1,749.4million as at 31 March 2016 and the revaluation objectivity of CBRE and verified its qualifications.
As part gain of 296.6 million is included within Change in fair of our evaluation we assessed the independence of CBRE value of investment property in the Consolidated given the Non-Executive Director role of Stephen Hubbard.
We also discussed the scope of its work and reviewed the terms of its engagement.
We found no unusual terms or fee The property valuations are carried out by external valuers arrangements that might affect its objectivity.
in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards and Workspaces Group accounting policies We met with CBRE to discuss and challenge the valuation which incorporate the requirements of International process, key assumptions and the rationale behind the more Accounting Standard 40, Investment Property.
Where relevant, we were able to corroborate the explanations for yields and ERV The Groups property portfolio consists of office and movements with comparable property transactions and industrial properties located in London and includes: market benchmarks.
Properties held at investment value: These are existing We found that yields and ERVs were predominantly properties that are currently let and generate rental consistent with comparable benchmarking information for income.
They are valued using the income capitalisation the asset location and that the assumptions applied method as explained in note 10. appropriately reflected comparable market transactions.
Properties held at development value: These are Where assumptions did not fall within our expected range, properties currently being refurbished, under we assessed whether additional evidence presented in development or identified for future development.
arriving at the final valuation was appropriate, and whether They have a different risk and investment profile to the this had been robustly challenged by the external properties held at investment value and are valued using independent valuers.
We were satisfied that variances were the residual value method as explained in note 10. predominantly due to property specific factors such as new lettings at higher rents, increased average rents or capital The most significant judgements affecting all the improvements to the properties.
We noted that the overall valuations includes yield and Estimated Rental Value valuation primarily increased as a result of a larger quantity ERV movements as described in note 10 of the of higher quality and valued available lettable space.
For properties held at development value, other assumptions including costs to complete, In addition, we were able to obtain evidence to support the property specific factors and the likelihood of achieving valuation from the results of the following procedures which planning consent are also factored into the valuation.
did not identify any material misstatements.
We: Where available, the valuations take into account checked the accuracy of the underlying lease and evidence of market transactions for properties and occupancy data used by CBRE in their valuation of the locations comparable to those of the Group.
portfolio by tracing the data back to the Workspace accounting records and signed leases on a sample basis: for the properties held at development value, evaluated the underlying assumptions for the gross development value, construction costs and property specific factors within the development appraisals by comparing them to available market information and underlying project plans: agreed the acquisitions and disposals in the year to the underlying agreements, cash payments and receipts and title deeds: agreed a sample of capital expenditure items to invoices, quantity surveyor reports and cash to check that they had been correctly capitalised: and visited selected properties within the portfolio over the course of the year for physical verification purposes.
"126""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Investment in BlackRock Workspace Property Trust joint We obtained and read the documentation and contracts venture BlackRock JV governing the structure of the joint arrangement, the relevant board minutes and other supporting information."
Refer to page 94 Audit Committee Report, pages 147 This provided sufficient evidence that Workspace has shared to 148 Notes to the financial statements note 12 a, control over the key strategic and operational decisions page 135 Significant judgements, key assumptions and meaning that, consistent with the prior year, it was estimates, and page 137 Significant accounting policies.
appropriate for the BlackRock JV investment to be equity We focused on this area due to the particular judgement accounted for as a joint venture.
surrounding the continued treatment of the investment as We were also satisfied that sufficient and appropriate a joint venture given Workspaces 20.1% investment, and disclosures in accordance with IFRS 11 have been included the accounting treatment and recognition of the within note 12 a to the Consolidated financial statements.
performance fee in the current year.
We obtained managements calculations supporting the Management concluded that based on their day to day value of the performance fee and were able to confirm that operation and the contractual arrangements in place, the inputs to, and mechanics of, the calculation were BlackRock JV was a joint venture at 31 March 2016 and should accurate and in line with the contract.
Management be equity accounted in the Group Financial Statements.
obtained confirmation of the amount due by the other joint Under the joint venture agreement, Workspace is entitled venture partner.
to a performance fee for the services it provided in its We were satisfied that the recognition of the performance fee capacity as the property manager of the joint venture in the current period was appropriate as the service period from the date of inception until the earlier of the end of has expired and the amount can now be reliably estimated.
the service period, being 22 February 2016, or exit from the joint venture agreement.
The fee is based on outperformance of benchmarks specified in the joint venture agreement and completion of the service period.
Based on the criteria above, Workspace has recognised a performance fee of 24.1m within Other Income in the Consolidated income statement.
An accrual for the full value of this liability has been recognised by the BlackRock JV in their accounts.
Compliance with the REIT regime We confirmed our understanding of managements overall approach to checking their compliance with the REIT regime Refer to page 94 Audit Committee Report, pages 142 to requirements to our satisfaction.
143 Notes to the financial statements note 6 and page 135 Significant judgements, key assumptions and We obtained managements calculations and supporting estimates.
documentation for the current and preceding year Balance of Business tests, testing the inputs, calculation and Workspace converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust application of the rules.
The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status provided they meet the specific With respect to the calculation of the Balance of Business requirements of the regime.
test for 2015, we saw the confirmation from HMRC that concluded that managements basis of calculation was We focused on this area because the rules are complex appropriate.
This provided us with good evidence to and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on the concur with managements conclusion that no breach Groups business and the Group financial statements.
Last year 2015 we noted that the Group was in For 2016, based on our work on the calculations and discussions with HMRC regarding the application of the supporting documentation, we were satisfied with REIT criteria.
Following these discussions, Management managements conclusion that Workspace generated more concluded that there was no breach of the criteria last year.
than 50% and less than 75% of its total accounting profits In the current year, due to the receipt of the 24.1m from its property rental business.
We also considered BlackRock JV performance fee see previous Area of managements forecasts for future periods and these focus, Workspace generated less than 75% of its total supported their conclusions that the likelihood of accounting accounting profits from its property rental business.
If the profits from its property rental business being below 75% of level generated from the property rental business falls total accounting profits is remote.
below 75% of its total accounting profits next year, Workspace may be deemed to fail the Balance of Business test, which represents a minor breach of the REIT regime criteria.
It is noted that if the Balance of Business test results in accounting profits from property rental falling below 50% in any one year this would trigger an immediate REIT compliance breach and potential loss of REIT status.
We therefore considered the Balance of Business test for 2015, 2016 and 2017 to understand whether a breach had occurred or was likely to occur in future periods.
"127""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we to them misstatements identied during our audit above performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on 0.4 million 2015: 0.2 million as well as misstatements the financial statements as a whole, taking into account below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting for qualitative reasons."
processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Workspace Group PLC provides commercial property to Directors statement, set out on page 52, in relation to let throughout London.
The Group financial statements going concern.
We have nothing to report having are a consolidation of the eight active entities, eighteen performed our review.
dormant entities and the Groups two joint ventures.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you Except for the joint ventures, where we focused our work if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to on the share of profits and net assets including investment in relation to the Directors statement about whether they properties that are recognised in the Group financial considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis statements, all entities were identied as requiring an audit in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing of their complete financial information, either due to their material to add or to draw attention to.
size or their risk characteristics and all the audit work was performed by the Group audit team.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Materiality basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the have concluded that the Directors use of the going individual financial statement line items and disclosures and concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually future events or conditions can be predicted, these and on the financial statements as a whole.
statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group 18.8 million 2015: 13.4 million.
materiality How we 1% of total assets.
determined it Rationale for The key driver of the business and benchmark determinant of the Group's value is direct applied property investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus in the audit is the valuation of investment properties.
On this basis, consistent with last year, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
materiality How we A percentage of profit before tax, net determined it finance costs and investment property valuation movements.
Rationale for A number of key performance indicators benchmark of the Group are driven by income applied statement items and we therefore applied a lower specific materiality to the components of profit before tax, excluding net finance costs and investment property valuation movements.
"128""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Consistency of other information Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Companies Act 2006 opinion Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for attention to in relation to: which the financial statements are prepared is consistent the Directors confirmation on page 92 We have with the financial statements."
of the Annual Report, in accordance with nothing provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they material to have carried out a robust assessment add or to ISAs UK & Ireland reporting of the principal risks facing the Group, draw including those that would threaten its attention to.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to business model, future performance, you if, in our opinion: solvency or liquidity.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no the disclosures in the Annual Report that We have materially inconsistent with the exceptions to describe those risks and explain how nothing information in the audited financial report.
they are being managed or mitigated.
material to statements: or add or to apparently materially incorrect based draw on, or materially inconsistent with, our attention to.
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the Directors explanation on page 52 of We have the Annual Report, in accordance with nothing otherwise misleading.
provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how material to the statement given by the Directors on We have no they have assessed the prospects of the add or to page 85, in accordance with provision exceptions to Group, over what period they have done draw C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance report.
so and why they consider that period to attention to.
Code the Code, that they consider the be appropriate, and their statement as Annual Report taken as a whole to be to whether they have a reasonable fair, balanced and understandable and expectation that the Group will be able provides the information necessary for to continue in operation and meet its members to assess the Groups position liabilities as they fall due over the period and performance, business model and of their assessment, including any related strategy is materially inconsistent with disclosures drawing attention to any our knowledge of the Group acquired necessary qualifications or assumptions.
in the course of performing our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the the section of the Annual Report on We have no Directors statement that they have carried out a robust pages 91 to 97 as required by provision exceptions to assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work report.
Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Audit Committee does not of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope appropriately address matters than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and communicated by us to the Audit considering the Directors process supporting their Committee.
statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
"129""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC continued Adequacy of information and explanations received We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report Directors judgements against available evidence, forming to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the information and explanations we require for our audit."
have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We test and examine information, using sampling and Directors remuneration other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part information in the Annual Report to identify material of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report to identify any information that is apparently materially having performed our review.
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing Responsibilities for the financial statements the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material and the audit misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Our responsibilities and those of the Directors implications for our report.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 124, the Directors are Other matter responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Parent Company and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
financial statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2016 and on the information in the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Directors remuneration report that is described as having the financial statements in accordance with applicable law been audited.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Sonia Copeland Standards for Auditors.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP This report, including the opinions, has been prepared Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors for and only for the Companys members as a body in London accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 7 June 2016 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
"130""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
