Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC Parent Company Report on the parent company financial statements Other required reporting Our opinion Consistency of other information In our opinion, Workspace Group PLCs parent company financial statements the financial statements : Companies Act 2006 opinion give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report Companys affairs as at 31 March 2016: and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for have been properly prepared in accordance with United which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and with the financial statements: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting What we have audited Under International Standards on Auditing UK and The financial statements, included within the Annual Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2016: materially inconsistent with the information in the the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and audited financial statements: or the notes to the financial statements, which include a apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially summary of significant accounting policies and other inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company explanatory information.
acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
Certain required disclosures have been presented We have no exceptions to report arising from this elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to responsibility.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Adequacy of accounting records and information and in the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 explanations received Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
"164""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Responsibilities for the financial statements and We test and examine information, using sampling and the audit other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider Our responsibilities and those of the Directors necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors conclusions."
We obtain audit evidence through testing the responsibilities set out on page 124, the Directors are effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a responsible for the preparation of the financial statements combination of both.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on information in the Annual Report to identify material the financial statements in accordance with applicable law inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to to identify any information that is apparently materially comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Standards for Auditors.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in implications for our report.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these Other matter opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other We have reported separately on the Group financial purpose or to any other person to whom this report is statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended shown or into whose hands it may come save where 31March 2016. expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Sonia Copeland What an audit of financial statements involves Senior Statutory Auditor We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & for and on behalf of  LLP Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors amounts and disclosures in the financial statements London sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 7 June 2016 statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
"165""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
