qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:34 Page 54 Directors report: Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Achieving high standards The role of the Board is to provide strategic leadership, guidance and perspective to the business on behalf of the shareholders and to ensure that the risks and rewards of the business are properly managed through different phases of the industrys cycle.
2008 was a busy and successful year for Tullow and the Board.
The Group delivered a very strong operational performance and is positioned for a further significant step change in size and scale.
While it is a very exciting time for Tullow, it is and has been a very challenging time for world economies and stock markets, and it is against this backdrop that the governance and stewardship obligations of company boards have come into sharp focus across all industries.
I am happy to report that the Tullow Board, I believe, continues to operate very effectively.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman Strategic review As Tullows business has grown and become more complex 2008 Achievements it is important that the Board continuously reviews and evaluates the Groups strategy.
In 2008, a detailed strategic review undertaken by the Board in the second half of the Successful appointments year re-confirmed the Groups vision and strategy, which Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer is set out on page 15 of this report.
However, a more Ann Grant, non-executive Director challenging strategic objective was agreed in the context of the Groups exceptional performance in recent years Board evaluation and Tullow is now targeting a TSR performance in the top quintile for the industry.
Addressed 2007 issues and conducted 2008 review In addition, elements of our strategy have been re-calibrated Senior executive remuneration in light of the current economic backdrop.
Liquidity and capital Groups remuneration policy reviewed to ensure continued management have been addressed through a very disciplined close alignment of the long-term interests of shareholders with those of executives Board composition Business Conduct Year Executive Non-Executive Board member appointed Director Director Revised Code of Business Conduct, incorporating Ethics Pat Plunkett 1998 x and Integrity Policy, adopted Aidan Heavey 1985 x David Bamford 2004 x 2009 Challenges Ann Grant 2008 x Angus McCoss 2006 x Ensure that the Group stays on target with its key 2009 Paul McDade 2006 x strategic priorities Steven McTiernan 2002 x Review Board Committee composition and processes Graham Martin 1997 x Clare Spottiswoode 2002 x Define and progress succession planning Ian Springett 2008 x Undertake key risk reporting, mitigation and David Williams 2006 x progress evaluation Enhance Board meeting administration systems 54 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p54 55 vAW4.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:34 Page 55 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Our Board composition and the skills and experience of our Directors means that we are well structured to meet the challenges of the next phase of growth.
budgetary and capital allocation process that was undertaken across the business.
Maintaining financial flexibility has also Board of Directors been addressed with a successful equity placing and bank financing executed in early 2009.
The Tullow Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and is committed Enhanced risk management to business integrity and high ethical values across the Groups activities, which it views as an integral Risk management and risk factors were also reviewed as part of the strategic review and details of these are part of doing business.
outlined in the risk management and risk factors section Board members on pages 44 to 47.
Key risks for strategic delivery have now There are 11 members of Tullows Board, five Executive Directors and six non-executive Directors.
There is clear been assigned with a Board level sponsor and are being separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive incorporated in Board reporting on a quarterly basis.
Officer to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
Rebalanced Board Chairman The composition of the Board is a key factor in ensuring The Chairman, Pat Plunkett, is responsible for the effective that the right mix of skills and experience are in place to running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and lead the Group.
One of the Board objectives for 2008 was constructive part in the development and determination of the to rebalance the Board in favour of non-executive Directors Groups strategy, and acts as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision-making process.
and this was successfully achieved during the year.
Tullow now has 11 Directors comprising six non-executive Directors Senior Independent Director In this role, Steven McTiernan is available to shareholders who and five Executive Directors.
have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
Successful management transition Chief Executive Officer The appointment of Ian Springett as Chief Financial Officer The Chief Executive Officer, Aidan Heavey, is responsible for demonstrates the ability of Tullow to attract high-quality managing the Groups business, proposing and developing individuals to the Group and is a credit to the Nominations the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in Committee.
However, the Board recognises that more focus consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive needs to be given to succession planning across the Group team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is and this is incorporated in Board objectives for 2009.
In my responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with shareholders Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, I have summarised as part of the Groups overall investor relations programme.
the Board and management changes during 2008.
Performing to the highest level The Board will continue to keep its work and governance principles under review and to review Board performance annually to ensure that Board members are continually challenged to perform to the highest level.
We always welcome shareholder feedback and if you have Principal Board Executive any comments or observations about this report please feel Committees management free to email me at chairman@tullowoil.
Audit Committee Chief Financial Officer Nominations Committee Chief Operating Officer Remuneration Exploration Director Committee General Counsel and Company Secretary Pat Plunkett, Chairman Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 55
